CITY OF MARTINDALE, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-9 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2024-01-04, passed 1-4-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2012-02-01
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MARTINDALE, TEXAS, ENACTING
AND ADOPTING THE CITY OF MARTINDALE CODE OF ORDINANCES; AND INCLUDING
PROCEDURAL PROVISIONS
   RECITALS
   1. WHEREAS, Section 53.001 of the Texas Local Government Code authorizes the
City Council to “adopt by ordinance a codification of its civil and criminal
ordinances”; and
   2. WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed compiling
the Code of Ordinances of the City of Martindale, which includes ordinances of
a general and ongoing nature enacted by the City Council; and
   3. WHEREAS, the City Council wishes to adopt the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Martindale as the City's official codification of ordinances; now,
therefore
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MARTINDALE, TEXAS:
   SECTION 1. The Code of Ordinances of the City of Martindale as submitted by
American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached
hereto, is adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety in this
ordinance.
   SECTION 2. The City Secretary is directed to record the Code of Ordinances
in the City’s ordinance records.
   SECTION 3. All ordinances and resolutions or parts of ordinances or
resolutions in conflict with this ordinance are repealed. This repeal does not
extend to any City ordinances of a general and ongoing nature that were not
included in the Code of Ordinances, including (without limitation) the
following ordinance, all of which are expressly saved from repeal:
      Animal Control Ordinance adopted December 7, 2004
   SECTION 4. The Code of Ordinances, including all additions and amendments to
the Code of Ordinances approved by the City Council, shall be admitted in
evidence without further proof, and shall be prima facie evidence in all courts
of the existence and validity of the enactment of all ordinances comprising the
Code of Ordinances.
   SECTION 5. It is unlawful for any person, without authorization of an
ordinance duly adopted by the City Council, to change or amend the Code of
Ordinances by addition or deletion, or to alter or tamper with the Code of
Ordinances in any manner that may cause the ordinances of the City of
Martindale to be misrepresented. A person who violates this provision is
subject to the penalties described in Section 10-99 of the Code of Ordinances.
   SECTION 6. If any word, phrase, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this
ordinance is held to be unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the other provisions of this ordinance will continue in force if
they can be given effect without the invalid portion.
   SECTION 7. It is officially found, determined, and declared that the meeting
at which this Ordinance was adopted was open to the public, and public notice
of the time, place, and subject matter of the meeting, including this
Ordinance, was given as required by Texas Government Code Chapter 551, as
amended.
   SECTION 8. The City Secretary is directed to publish notice of the adoption
of this Ordinance in a newspaper of general circulation in the City, and this
Ordinance will take effect on the date notice of its adoption is so published.
PASSED APPROVED AND ADOPTED on February 7, 2012
                      Doyle Mosier /s/
                      Mayor
ATTEST:                  APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Nancy G. Hempel /s/              Mark B. Taylor /s/
City Secretary                City Attorney
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering or tampering with code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Martindale, Texas,
shall be designated as the "Martindale City Code", and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Loc. Gov't Code,
Ch. 53
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
Statutory reference:
   Code Construction Act, see Tex. Gov't Code, Ch. 311
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Martindale,
Texas.
      CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The CITY ADMINISTRATOR, or when no City Administrator
is employed by the city, the City Secretary, or another person to whom the City
Council has assigned general administrative responsibilities for the city.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of the City of
Martindale, Texas constituting the GOVERNING BODY of the city.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Caldwell County, Texas.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Texas.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or" if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including but not limited to the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the municipality
or any evidence of the municipality's indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for municipal officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to municipal
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing or otherwise relating to rates
to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating or otherwise relating
to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All the ordinances mentioned in division (A) are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council desires to amend any existing chapter or section
of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and a new
chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, § 54.001) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, §§ 552.001 et seq.
§ 10.19 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty for ordinance violations; continuing violations.
      (1)   A person who violates any ordinance of the city pertaining to fire
safety, zoning or public health and sanitation, including dumping of refuse,
shall be punished, upon conviction, by a fine not to exceed $2,000.
      (2)   A person who violates any other ordinance of the city shall be
punished, upon conviction thereof, by a fine not to exceed $500.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (A)(1) or (2) above, no penalty for a
violation shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same or
similar offense under the laws of the state.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in an ordinance, a separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day on or during which a violation occurs
or continues.
      (5)   Prosecution for violation of a provision of a city ordinance is not
a prerequisite or bar to any other remedy or relief for the violation under a
city ordinance or state law.
   (B)   Culpable mental states for ordinance violations.
      (1)   If the definition of a violation of an ordinance does not prescribe
a culpable mental state, a culpable mental state is nevertheless required,
unless the definition plainly dispenses with the need for a culpable mental
state.
      (2)   If the definition of a violation of an ordinance does not prescribe
a culpable mental state, and does not plainly dispense with the need for a
culpable mental state, then intent, knowledge, recklessness or criminal
negligence suffices to establish criminal responsibility for the violation.
      (3)   Culpable mental states are defined in Tex. Penal Code § 6.03, as
amended.
(Ord. 2010-394, passed - -2010)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
         
32.   FEES AND FINES
         
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
34.   TAX AND FINANCE
         
35.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Police Reserve Force
   
30.02   Adoption of state statutes; town to city
   
30.03   Smoking in city offices/hallways
   
30.04   Official newspaper
   
30.05   Police Department policy on racial profiling
   
30.06   Notice of claims
Commemorative Naming
   
30.10   Application of subchapter
   
30.11   Definitions
   
30.12   Types of naming requests
   
30.13   Type A request for official renaming of streets
   
30.14   Type B request for commemorative naming of streets and public
facilities
   
30.15   Type C request for commemorative naming of public features
Management of City Records
   
30.20   Application of subchapter
   
30.21   Definitions
   
30.22   Property of city
   
30.23   Policy
   
30.24   Designation of Records Management Officer
   
30.25   Plan to be developed; approval and authority
   
30.26   Duties of Records Management Officer
   
30.27   Responsibilities of officers and employees
   
30.28   Records control schedules adopted; filing with state
   
30.29   Implementation of records control schedules; destruction of records
under schedule
   
30.30   Destruction of unscheduled records
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 POLICE RESERVE FORCE.
   (A)   Established. A Police Reserve Force is authorized and established.
   (B)   Appointment of members. Members of the Police Reserve Force shall be
appointed at the discretion of the Police Chief, and shall serve as peace
officers during the actual discharge of official duties.
   (C)   Qualifications and training. Members of the Police Reserve Force shall
be qualified and trained to meet standards as prescribed by the Texas
Commission of Law Enforcement Officer Standards and Education (TCLEOSE) and as
outlined in the police procedures manual.
   (D)   Approval of appointments by City Council. An appointment to the Police
Reserve Force must be approved by the City Council before the person appointed
may carry a weapon or otherwise act as a peace officer.
   (E)   Service at the discretion of Police Chief. Members of the Police
Reserve Force serve at the discretion of the Police Chief and may be called in
to service at any time the Police Chief considers it necessary to have
additional officers to preserve the peace and enforce the law.
   (F)   Insurance. Officers appointed under this section shall be covered by
voluntary worker's compensation while on active duty as a reserve police
officer, but at no other times. Except as specified in this section, reserve
officers shall be entitled to none of the benefits of regular city police
officers or other city employees.
(Ord. 88-1119, passed 1-19-1988; Ord. 2010-389, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.02 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES; TOWN TO CITY.
   (A)   The city is incorporated as a Type A General Law municipality under
the laws of the state.
   (B)   The Town of Martindale shall hereafter be known as the "City of
Martindale, Texas".
(Ord. 1120, passed 4-19-1988)
§ 30.03 SMOKING IN CITY OFFICES/HALLWAYS.
   (A)   Smoking any tobacco product is prohibited while within any city
building.
   (B)   The City Administrator is to post "No Smoking" signs in appropriate
places in city building, giving notice of prohibition.
(Ord. 89-1114A, passed 2-21-1989) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.04 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   The City Council confirms the determination in Ord. 94-1203 that the San
Marcos Daily Record is a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The City
Council finds and determines that the Lockhart Post-Register, combined with its
affiliate publication, the Caldwell County Guardian, is also a newspaper of
general circulation in the city. The City Council expressly authorizes the use
of the San Marcos Record or the Lockhart Post-Register/Caldwell County Guardian
as newspapers for the publication of official notices of the city.
(Ord. 94-1203, passed 5-3-1994; Ord. 2010-386, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 30.05 POLICE DEPARTMENT POLICY ON RACIAL PROFILING.
   The Police Department Racial Profiling Policy is adopted by reference, in
compliance with the requirements of Tex. Criminal Procedure Code, Articles
2.131 through 2.136, which prohibits state peace officers from engaging in
racial profiling.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2002) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.06 NOTICE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The city shall never be liable for any claim for property damage or
for personal injury, whether the personal injury results in death or not,
unless the person damaged or injured, or someone in his or her behalf, or in
the event the injury results in death, the person or persons who may have a
cause of action under the law by reason of death or injury, shall, within 60
days or within six months, for good cause shown from the date the damage or
injury was received, give notice in writing to the City Administrator, Mayor
and City Council the following facts:
      (1)   The date and time when the injury occurred and the place where the
injured person or property was at the time when the injury was received;
      (2)   The nature of the damage or injury sustained;
      (3)   The apparent extent of the damage or injury sustained;
      (4)   A specific and detailed statement of how and under what
circumstances the damage or injury occurred;
      (5)   The amount for which each claimant will settle;
      (6)   The actual place of residence of each claimant by street, number,
city and state on the date the claim is presented;
      (7)   In the case of personal injury or death, the names and addresses of
all persons who, according to the knowledge or information of the claimant
witnessed the happening of the injury or any part thereof and the names of the
doctors, if any, to whose care the injured person is committed; and
      (8)   In the case of property damage, the location of the damaged
property at the time the claim was submitted, along with the names and
addresses of all persons who witnessed the happening of the damage or any part
thereof.
   (B)   No suit of any nature whatsoever shall be instituted or maintained
against the city, unless the plaintiff therein shall aver and prove that
previous to the filing of the original petition the plaintiff applied to the
City Council for redress, satisfaction, compensation or relief, as the case may
be, and that the same was by vote of the City Council refused.
   (C)   All notices required by this section shall be effectuated by serving
them upon the (City Secretary, City Clerk or City Administrator) at the
following location: city, Highway 80 South, Martindale, Texas, and all the
notices shall be effective only when actually received in the office of the
person named above.
   (D)   Neither the Mayor, City Council member or any other officer or
employee of the city shall have the authority to waive any of the provisions of
this section.
   (E)   The written notice required under this section shall be sworn to by
the person claiming the damage or injuries or by someone authorized by him or
her to do so on his or her behalf. Failure to swear to the notice as required
herein shall render the notice fatally defective, but failure to so verify the
notice may be considered by the City Council as a factor relating to the
allegations and to the weight to be given to the allegations contained therein.
(Ord. 86-1112, passed 11-6-1986)
COMMEMORATIVE NAMING
§ 30.10 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter applies to public naming of city buildings, parks, streets,
and other fixed public facilities, features, and places in honor of one or more
people, organizations, corporations, foundations, or similar entities who
achieved a public status worthy of long-term recognition for extraordinary and
special efforts, accomplishments, and contributions.
(Ord. 2020-04-07, passed 4-7-2020)
§ 30.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMEMORATIVE STREET NAME. An unofficial alias name affixed to the street or
a section thereof and marked by a secondary sign that is rectangular in shape
with a white message and white border on a brown background and located below
the sign for the official public street name.
   OFFICIAL PUBLIC STREET NAME. The official numerical designation or other
certified name recorded for a public street and marked by a primary sign that
is rectangular in shape with a white message and white border on a green
background.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES. All city owned or maintained buildings, parks, and other
fixed public facilities and places.
   PUBLIC FEATURES. Permanent or semi-permanent physical items located on or
within city owned or maintained buildings, parks, and other fixed public
facilities and places, including plaques, benches, trees, and markers.
(Ord. 2020-04-07, passed 4-7-2020)
§ 30.12 TYPES OF NAMING REQUESTS.
   (A)   A request for the official renaming of public streets is classified as
a Type A request and subject to the official street renaming process provisions
of this subchapter.
   (B)   A request for the commemorative naming of public streets and public
facilities is classified as a Type B request and subject to the commemorative
naming process provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   A request for commemorative naming of public features is classified as
a Type C request and subject to the streamlined commemorative naming process
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-04-07, passed 4-7-2020)
§ 30.13 TYPE A REQUEST FOR OFFICIAL RENAMING OF STREETS.
   (A)   Consideration of an official renaming of a public street shall be
initiated by a written request from a person, organization, or other entity
requesting the name change. The written request shall include the current
street name, the requested street name, the reason justifying the street
renaming, the range or length of the portion of the street to be renamed.
   (B)   A request for an official renaming of a public street must be
accompanied by a petition signed by at least 75% of the recorded property
owners on the street proposed for the renaming.
   (C)   A request for an official renaming of a public street must be
accompanied by a fee of $250.
   (D)   The following preferences shall apply to the review and approval of
any proposed official street renaming:
      (1)   A proposed name shall have a long-standing local or community
identification with city residents and be understandable to a majority of those
residents.
      (2)   Preference shall be given to any name which:
         (a)   Gives a sense of place, continuity, and belonging reflecting the
geographic location, community, and neighborhood;
         (b)   Recognizes the historical significance of an area;
         (c)   Reflects any unique characteristics of the area; or
         (d)   Is consistent with any generally accepted or common theme.
      (3)   The name of a person, organization, corporation, foundation, or
similar entity shall be considered only when such person or entity has a made a
significant contribution to the city by enhancing the quality of life and well-
being of the city and its citizens or contributing to the historical, cultural,
or societal interests of the city, the region, the state, or the United States.
   (E)   The following limitations shall apply to the review and approval of
any proposed official street renaming:
      (1)   A proposed official street name must meet all applicable addressing
standards established by the United States Postal Service, Caldwell County 911
Address Administrator, and any requirements or limitations imposed by
applicable emergency services and public safety service providers. These
requirements may not be waived.
      (2)   A proposed official street name must not cause confusion or
misunderstanding due to duplication of or similarity with the city or county;
      (3)   A proposed official street name must not reflect the name of an
entity or business associated with tobacco, alcohol, pornography, or subject to
police regulation;
      (4)   A proposed official street name must not be discriminatory of or
derogatory towards any race, gender, creed, political affiliation, or similar
consideration;
      (5)   A proposed official street name must not consist of a logo or trade
name for a commercially available product;
   (F)   A petition for an official street renaming shall be initially reviewed
and considered for recommendation by the City Administrator, which shall review
the proposal for compliance with this subchapter. The City Administrator shall
request the review of the proposed street name by the Caldwell County 911
Address Administrator and may seek the recommendation of other public safety
service providers and county officials.
   (G)   Upon determining that an application is complete and the applicant has
made adequate provisions for the costs of processing and reviewing the
application, the City Administrator will schedule the application for a public
hearing and consideration by the City Council. The public hearing will be
preceded by a notice published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
   (H)   The City Council will hold a public hearing on the request for the
proposed name change before making a final decision. If a proposed street name
change is contested in writing prior to the public hearing or communicated
during the public hearing, a super majority of the City Council is required to
approve any proposed street name.
   (I)   The review and final approval of any proposed street name shall be
within the sole discretion of the City Council.
   (J)   If the request is approved by the City Council, the City Administrator
shall provide the appropriate information regarding the commemorative street or
public facility name to the Caldwell County 911 Address Administrator for
review and Geographic Information Systems Department (GIS) for input into its
system.
(Ord. 2020-04-07, passed 4-7-2020)
§ 30.14 TYPE B REQUEST FOR COMMEMORATIVE NAMING OF STREETS AND PUBLIC
FACILITIES.
   (A)   Consideration of a commemorative street or public facility name shall
be initiated by a written request from a person, organization, or other entity
requesting the commemorative name. The written request shall include the
requested commemorative name, the reason justifying the commemoration, the
existing street or facility name, the range or length of the portion of the
street if a requested commemorative street name, and any information regarding
requested signage or plaques.
   (B)   For a commemorative street name, a written request must be accompanied
by a petition signed by at least 50% of the recorded property owners who own
structures on the street proposed for the commemoration.
   (C)   A request for a commemorative name must be accompanied by a fee of
$150.
   (D)   The following preferences shall apply to the review and approval of
any proposed commemorative name:
      (1)   A proposed name shall have a long-standing local or community
identification with city residents and be understandable to a majority of those
residents.
      (2)   Preference shall be given to any name which:
         (a)   Gives a sense of place, continuity, and belonging reflecting the
geographic location, community, and neighborhood;
         (b)   Recognizes the historical significance of an area;
         (c)   Reflects any unique characteristics of the area; or
         (d)   Is consistent with any generally accepted or common theme.
      (3)   The name of a person, organization, corporation, foundation, or
similar entity shall be considered only when such person or entity has a made a
significant contribution to the city by enhancing the quality of life and well-
being of the city and its citizens or contributing to the historical, cultural,
or societal interests of the city, the region, the state, or the United States.
   (E)   The following limitations shall apply to the review and approval of
any proposed commemorative street naming:
      (1)   A proposed commemorative street name must meet all applicable
addressing standards established by the United States Postal Service, Caldwell
County 911 Address Administrator, and any requirements or limitations imposed
by applicable emergency services and public safety service providers. These
requirements may not be waived.
      (2)   A proposed commemorative street name must not cause confusion or
misunderstanding due to duplication of or similarity with the city or county;
      (3)   A proposed commemorative street name must not reflect the name of
an entity or business associated with tobacco, alcohol, pornography, or subject
to police regulation;
      (4)   A proposed commemorative street name must not be discriminatory of
or derogatory towards any race, gender, creed, political affiliation, or
similar consideration;
      (5)   A proposed commemorative street name must not consist of a logo or
trade name for a commercially available product;
      (6)   Is any public facility donated to the city contingent upon
assignment of a specific name to such public facility; or
      (7)   Is any public facility constructed from money or property donated
to the city for the specific purpose of securing a particular name of such
public facility?
   (F)   A petition for a commemorative street or public facility name shall be
initially reviewed and considered for recommendation by the City Administrator,
which shall review the proposal for compliance. The City Administrator also may
request the review and recommendation of public safety service providers and
county officials, where necessary. The City Administrator shall seek the review
and recommendation of the petition by all relevant city boards and commissions
with jurisdiction, such as the Parks Advisory Board and Historical Commission.
   (G)   The City Administrator shall provide a recommendation regarding the
proposed commemorative name to the City Council.
   (H)   Upon determining that an application is complete and the applicant has
made adequate provisions for the costs of processing and reviewing the
application, the City Administrator will schedule the application for a public
hearing and consideration by the City Council. The public hearing will be
preceded by a notice published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
   (I)   The City Council will hold a public hearing on the request for the
proposed commemorative name before making a final decision.
   (J)   The review and final approval of any proposed commemorative street or
public facility name shall be within the sole discretion of the City Council. A
simple majority of the City Council is required to approve any proposed
commemorative name.
   (K)   If the request is approved by the City Council, the City Administrator
shall provide the appropriate information regarding the commemorative street or
public facility name to the Caldwell County 911 Address Administrator for
review and Geographic Information Systems Department (GIS) for input into its
system.
(Ord. 2020-04-07, passed 4-7-2020)
§ 30.15 TYPE C REQUEST FOR COMMEMORATIVE NAMING OF PUBLIC FEATURES.
   (A)   Consideration of a commemorative public features shall be initiated by
a written request from a person, organization, or other entity requesting the
commemorative public feature. The written request shall include a description
the requested commemorative feature, the reason justifying the commemoration,
the existing feature name (if any), and information regarding requested signage
or plaques.
   (B)   A request for a commemorative public feature must be accompanied by a
fee of $25.
   (C)   A proposed commemorative public feature shall have some nexus to the
place of the feature and contributions of the person, organization,
corporation, foundation, or similar entity.
   (D)   A request for a commemorative public feature name shall be initially
reviewed and considered for recommendation by the City Administrator. The City
Administrator also may request the review and recommendation of public safety
service providers and county officials, where necessary. The City Administrator
shall seek the review and recommendation of the petition by all relevant city
boards and commissions with jurisdiction, such as the Parks Advisory Board and
Historical Commission.
   (E)   The City Administrator shall provide a recommendation regarding the
proposal to the City Council.
   (F)   Final approval, either accepting or rejecting the request for a
commemorative public feature shall be within the sole discretion of the City
Council.
   (G)   The cost of making and installing appropriate plaques or signs
designating the commemorative name shall be paid for by the original
requestors.
(Ord. 2020-04-07, passed 4-7-2020)
MANAGEMENT OF CITY RECORDS
§ 30.20 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter applies to all "city records", which include all documents,
papers, letters, books, maps, photographs, sound or video recordings,
microfilm, magnetic tape, electronic media or other information recording
media, regardless of physical form or characteristic and regardless of whether
public access to them is open or restricted under the laws of the state,
created or received by the city or any of its officers or employees, pursuant
to law, or in the transaction of public business.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 30.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. The officer who by ordinance or administrative policy is in
charge of an office of the city that creates or receives records.
   DIRECTOR AND LIBRARIAN. The Director and Librarian of the Texas State
Library and Archives Commission.
   ESSENTIAL RECORD. Any record of the city necessary to the resumption or
continuation of its operations in an emergency or disaster, to the recreation
of its legal and financial status, or to the protection and fulfillment of
obligations to the people of the state.
   PERMANENT RECORD. Any record of the city for which the retention period on a
records control schedule is given as permanent.
   RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE. A document prepared by or under the authority of
the Records Management Officer listing the records maintained by the city,
their retention periods and other records disposition informal on that the
records management plan may require.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT. The application of management techniques to the
creation, use, maintenance, retention, preservation and disposal of city
records for the purposes of reducing the costs and improving the efficiency of
record-keeping. The term includes the development of records control schedules,
the management of filing and information retrieval systems, the protection of
essential and permanent records, the economical and space-effective storage of
inactive records, control over the creation and distribution of forms, reports
and correspondence, and the management of micrographics and electronic and
other records storage systems.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER. The person designated in §
30.24 below.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN. The plan developed under §
30.25 below.
   RETENTION PERIOD. The minimum time that must pass after the creation,
recording or receipt of a city record, or the fulfillment of certain actions
associated with a city record, before it is eligible for destruction.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 30.22 PROPERTY OF CITY.
   All city records are declared to be the property of the city. No city
officer or employee has, by virtue of his or her position, any personal or
property right to a city record, even though he or she may have developed or
compiled them. The unauthorized destruction, removal from files or use of city
records is prohibited.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.23 POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to provide for efficient, economical and
effective controls over the creation, distribution, organization, maintenance,
use and disposition of all city records through a comprehensive system of
integrated procedures for their management from creation to ultimate
disposition, consistent with the requirements of the State Local Government
Records Act and accepted records management practice.
   (B)   City records shall be created, maintained and disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter or procedures authorized by
it, and in no other manner.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 30.24 DESIGNATION OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Administrator shall serve as Records Management Officer for the
city. As provided by state law, each successive holder of that office shall
file his or her name with the Director and Librarian of the state library
within 30 days of the initial designation or of taking up the office, as
applicable.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 30.25 PLAN TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer shall develop a records management plan
for the city for submission to the city. The plan must contain policies and
procedures designed to reduce the costs and improve the efficiency of record-
keeping, to adequately protect the essential records of the city, and to
properly preserve those records of the city that are of historical value. The
plan must be designed to enable the Records Management Officer to carry out his
or her duties prescribed by state law, and this subchapter effectively.
   (B)   Once approved by the city, the records management plan shall be
binding on all offices, departments, divisions, programs, commissions, bureaus,
boards, committees or similar entities of the city and records shall be
created, maintained, stored, microfilmed or disposed of in accordance with the
plan.
   (C)   State law relating to the duties, other responsibilities or record-
keeping requirements of a department head do not exempt the department head or
the records in the department head's care from the application of this
subchapter and the records management plan adopted under it and may not be used
by the department head as a basis for refusal to participate in the records
management plan of the city.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 30.26 DUTIES OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, the Records
Management Officer shall:
   (A)   Administer the records management plan and provide assistance to city
employees in its implementation;
   (B)   Plan, formulate and prescribe records disposition policies, systems,
standards and procedures;
   (C)   In cooperation with department heads, identify essential records and
establish a disaster plan for city records to ensure maximum availability of
the records in order to reestablish operations quickly and with minimum
disruption and expense;
   (D)   Develop procedures to ensure the permanent preservation of
historically valuable city records;
   (E)   Establish standards for filing and storage equipment and for record-
keeping supplies;
   (F)   Study the feasibility of and, if appropriate, establish a uniform
filing system and a forms design and control system for the city;
   (G)   Monitor records retention schedules and administrative rules issued by
the State Library and Archives Commission to determine if the records
management plan and the city's records control schedules are in compliance with
state regulations;
   (H)   Disseminate information to city offices and employees concerning state
laws and administrative rules relating to local government records;
   (I)   Ensure that the maintenance, preservation, microfilming, destruction
or other disposition of city records are carried out in accordance with the
policies and procedures of the records management plan and the requirements of
state law;
   (J)   Maintain records on the volume of city records destroyed under
approved records control schedules or through records destruction authorization
requests, the volume of city records microfilmed or stored electronically, and
the estimated cost and space savings as the result of the disposal or
disposition;
   (K)   Report annually to the City Council on the implementation of the
records management plan, including summaries of the statistical and fiscal data
compiled under division (J) above; and
   (L)   Bring to the attention of the City Council noncompliance by a city
officer or employee with the policies and procedures of the records management
plan or the Local Government Records Act.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 30.27 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, city officers and
employees shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with the Records Management Officer in carrying out the
policies and procedures established in the city for the efficient and
economical management of city records and in carrying out the requirements of
this subchapter;
   (B)   Adequately document the transaction of government business and the
services, programs and duties for which the officer or employee are
responsible; and
   (C)   Maintain the city records in his or her care and carry out their
preservation, microfilming, destruction or other disposition only in accordance
with the policies and procedures of the records management plan of the city and
the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 30.28 RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES ADOPTED; FILING WITH STATE.
   (A)   The following records retention schedules of the State of Texas are
adopted as the city's records retention schedules:
      (1)   Schedule EL: Records of elections and voter registration;
      (2)   Schedule GR: Records common to all local governments;
      (3)   Schedule LC: Records of justice and municipal courts;
      (4)   Schedule HR: Public health agencies;
      (5)   Schedule PS: Records of public safety agencies;
      (6)   Schedule PW: Records of public works and services;
      (7)   Schedule TX: Property taxation;
      (8)   Schedule UT: Records of utility services.
   (B)   Each records control schedule shall be monitored and amended as needed
by the Records Management Officer on a regular basis to ensure that it is in
compliance with records retention schedules issued by the state, and that it
continues to reflect the record-keeping procedures and needs of the department
and the city records management plan.
   (C)   The Records Management Officer will submit records control schedules
to the Director and Librarian for acceptance and filing. If a schedule is not
accepted for filing, the Records Management Officer will amend the schedule to
make it acceptable for filing.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 30.29 IMPLEMENTATION OF RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES; DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS
UNDER SCHEDULE.
   (A)   A records control schedule that has been approved and adopted under §
30.28 above will be implemented according to the policies and procedures of the
records management plan.
   (B)   A city record whose retention period has expired on a records control
schedule will be destroyed unless an open records request is pending on the
record, the subject matter of the record is pertinent to a pending lawsuit, or
the officer or employee in control of the record requests in writing to the
Records Management Officer that the record be retained for an additional
period.
   (C)   Prior to the destruction of a record under an approved records control
schedule, the Records Management Officer will obtain authorization for the
destruction from the City Council.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 30.30 DESTRUCTION OF UNSCHEDULED RECORDS.
   A record that has not yet been listed on an approved records control
schedule may be destroyed, if its destruction has been approved in the same
manner as a record destroyed under an approved schedule, and the Records
Management Officer has submitted to and received back from the Director and
Librarian an approved destruction authorization request.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
30.03 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100 for each violation.
(Ord. 89-1114A, passed 2-21-1989)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Governing body
   
31.02   Other municipal officers
   
31.03   Municipal Secretary
   
31.04   Municipal Treasurer
   
31.05   Municipal Assessor and Collector
   
31.06   Municipal Attorney
   
31.07   Marshal/Chief of Police
   
31.08   Municipal Engineer
   
31.09   Municipal Court
   
31.10   Municipal Administrator
§ 31.01 GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)   The governing body consists of a mayor and five aldermen who are
elected by the qualified voters of the municipality.
   (B)   Mayor - powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor is the Chief Executive Officer of the municipality. The
Mayor shall at all times actively ensure that the laws and ordinances of the
municipality are properly carried out. The Mayor shall perform the duties and
exercise the powers prescribed by the governing body of the municipality. The
Mayor shall inspect the conduct of each subordinate municipal officer and shall
cause any negligence, carelessness, or other violation of duty to be prosecuted
and punished. The Mayor shall give to the governing body any information, and
shall recommend to the governing body any measure, that relates to improving
the finances, police, health, security, cleanliness, comfort, ornament, or good
government of the municipality. The Mayor may administer oaths of office. In
the event of a riot or unlawful assembly or to preserve the peace and good
order in the municipality, the Mayor may order and enforce the closing of a
theater, ballroom, or other place of recreation or entertainment, or a public
room or building and may order the arrest of a person who violates a state law
or a municipal ordinance in the presence of the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the governing body of
the municipality and, except in elections, may vote only if there is a tie.
   (C)   Mayor Pro Tempore. At each new governing body's first meeting or as
soon as practicable, the governing body shall elect one Alderman to serve as
President Pro Tempore for a term of one year. If the Mayor fails, is unable, or
refuses to act, the President Pro Tempore shall perform the Mayor's duties and
is entitled to receive the fees and compensation prescribed for the Mayor. If
the Mayor and the President Pro Tempore are absent, any Alderman may be
appointed to preside at the meeting.
(Ord. 2018-11-05, passed 11-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Composition of governing body, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.031
   Mayor as presiding officer; President Pro Tempore, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t.
Code, § 22.037
   Powers and duties of Mayor, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.042
§ 31.02 OTHER MUNICIPAL OFFICERS.
   (A)   Other municipal officers. In addition to the members of the governing
body of the municipality, the other officers of the municipality are the
Secretary, Treasurer, Assessor and Collector, Municipal Attorney, Marshal,
Municipal Engineer, and any other officers or agents authorized by the
governing body.
   (B)   Appointment of other municipal officers. If a vacancy exists in any
office created herein, the Mayor or Acting Mayor shall appoint a person to fill
the vacancy, subject to confirmation by the governing body.
   (C)   Removal of other municipal officers. The governing body of the
municipality may remove a municipal officer for incompetency, corruption,
misconduct, or malfeasance in office after providing the officer with due
notice and an opportunity to be heard. If the governing body lacks confidence
in a municipal officer appointed by the governing body, the governing body may
remove the officer at any time. The removal is effective only if two-thirds of
the elected Aldermen vote in favor of a resolution declaring the lack of
confidence.
   (D)   Powers and duties of other municipal officers; bond. The governing
body of the municipality may require municipal officers whose duties are set
forth herein (or otherwise established by Texas law) to perform additional
duties. The governing body may require a municipal officer to execute a bond
payable to the municipality and conditioned that the officer will faithfully
perform the duties of the office.
(Ord. 2018-11-05, passed 11-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Filling vacancy, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.010
   Other municipal officers, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.071
   Powers and duties of municipal officers; bond, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, §
22.072
   Powers and duties of Secretary, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.073
   Bond and duties of Treasurer, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.075
§ 31.03 MUNICIPAL SECRETARY.
   (A)   Office of Municipal Secretary created. The office of Municipal
Secretary is created and shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by the
Council. The Municipal Secretary may also be referred to as the Municipal
Clerk.
   (B)   Powers and duties of Municipal Secretary. The Municipal Secretary
shall:
      (1)   Attend each meeting of the governing body of the municipality and
shall keep, in a record provided for that purpose, accurate minutes of the
governing body's proceedings;
      (2)   Engross and enroll all laws, resolutions, and ordinances of the
governing body;
      (3)   Keep the corporate seal;
      (4)   Take charge of, arrange, and maintain the records of the governing
body;
      (5)   Countersign all commissions issued to municipal officers and all
licenses issued by the Mayor, and keep a record of those commissions and
licenses;
      (6)   Prepare all notices required under any regulation or ordinance of
the municipality;
      (7)   Draw all the warrants on the Treasurer, countersign the warrants,
and keep, in a record provided for that purpose, an accurate account of the
warrants;
      (8)   Carefully keep all contracts made by the governing body; and
      (9)   Perform all other duties required by law, ordinance, resolution, or
order of the governing body.
   (C)   Designation as Records Management Officer. In addition to all other
powers and duties set forth herein, the Municipal Secretary is also designated
as the Records Management Officer for the city.
   (D)   Powers and duties of Municipal Secretary as Records Management
Officer. The City Secretary shall file his or her name with the Director and
Librarian of the Texas State Library within 30 days of the initial designation
or assumption of the office, as applicable. In addition to other duties
assigned, the Records Management Officer shall:
      (1)   Assist in establishing and developing policies and procedures for a
records management program for the city;
      (2)   Administer the records management program and provide assistance to
custodians for the purposes of reducing the costs and improving the efficiency
of record keeping;
      (3)   In cooperation with the custodians of the records:
         (a)   Prepare and file with the Director and Librarian the records
control schedules and amended schedules required by Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, §
203.041 and the list of obsolete records as provided by Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code,
§ 203.044; and
         (b)   Prepare or direct the preparation of requests for authorization
to destroy records not on an approved control schedule as provided by Tex. Loc.
Gov’t. Code, § 203.045, of requests to destroy the originals of permanent
records that have been microfilmed as provided by Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, §
204.008, and of electronic storage authorization requests as provided by Tex.
Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 205.007;
      (4)   In cooperation with custodians, identify and take adequate steps to
preserve local government records that are of permanent value;
      (5)   In cooperation with custodians, identify and take adequate steps to
protect essential local government records;
      (6)   In cooperation with custodians, ensure that the maintenance,
preservation, microfilming, destruction, or other disposition of records is
carried out in accordance with the policies and procedures of the local
government's records management program and the requirements of this subtitle
and rules adopted under it;
      (7)   Disseminate to the governing body and custodians information
concerning state laws, administrative rules, and the policies of the government
relating to local government records; and
      (8)   In cooperation with custodians, establish procedures to ensure that
the handling of records in any context of the records management program by the
Records Management Officer or those under the Officer's authority is carried
out with due regard for:
         (a)   The duties and responsibilities of custodians that may be
imposed by law; and
         (b)   The confidentiality of information in records to which access is
restricted by law.
(Ord. 2018-11-05, passed 11-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Other municipal officers, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.071
   Powers and duties of municipal officers; bond, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, §
22.072
   Powers and duties of secretary, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.073
   Duties of Records Management Officer, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 203.023
   Designation of Records Management Officer, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, §
203.025
§ 31.04 MUNICIPAL TREASURER.
   (A)   Office of Municipal Treasurer created. The office of Municipal
Treasurer is created and shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by the
Council. The Municipal Treasurer may also be referred to as the Municipal
Accountant.
   (B)   Powers and duties of Municipal Treasurer.
      (1)   The Municipal Treasurer shall receive and securely keep all money
belonging to the municipality. The Treasurer shall make all payments on the
order of the Mayor, attested by the Secretary of the municipality under the
seal of the municipality. The Treasurer may not pay an order unless the face of
the order shows that the governing body directed the issuance of the order and
shows the purpose for which it is issued. The Treasurer shall render to the
governing body a full statement of the receipts and payments. The statement
must be rendered at the governing body's first regular meeting in every quarter
and at other times as required by the governing body.
      (2)   The Municipal Treasurer will also perform the following duties
which are statutorily given to the Municipal Secretary:
         (a)   Serve as the General Accountant of the municipality and shall
keep regular accounts of the municipal receipts and disbursements. The
Secretary shall keep each cause of receipt and disbursement separately and
under proper headings. The Secretary shall also keep separate accounts with
each person, including each officer, who has monetary transactions with the
municipality. The Secretary shall credit accounts allowed by proper authority
and shall specify the particular transaction to which each entry applies, the
Secretary shall keep records of the accounts and other information covered by
this section; and
         (b)   Keep a register of bonds and bills issued by the municipality
and all evidence of debt due and payable to the municipality, noting the
relevant particulars and facts as they occur.
   (C)   Bond. The Municipal Treasurer shall execute a bond. The bond must be
in favor of the municipality; be in the form and amount required by the
governing body of the municipality; have security approved as sufficient by the
governing body; and be conditioned that the Treasurer will faithfully discharge
the duties of the office.
(Ord. 2018-11-05, passed 11-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Other municipal officers, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.071
   Powers and duties of municipal officers; bond, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, §
22.072
   Powers and duties of secretary, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.073
   Duties of Records Management Officer, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 203.023
   Designation of Records Management Officer, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, §
203.025
§ 31.05 MUNICIPAL ASSESSOR AND COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Office of Municipal Assessor and Collector created. The Office of
Municipal Assessor and Collector is created and shall receive such compensation
as may be fixed by the Council. The Municipal Treasurer will serve as the
Municipal Assessor and Collector.
   (B)   Powers and duties of Municipal Assessor and Collector. The Municipal
Assessor and Collector will, in addition to the duties of Municipal Treasurer,
perform all other duties required by law, ordinance, resolution, or order of
the governing body.
(Ord. 2018-11-05, passed 11-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Other municipal officers, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.071
   Powers and duties of municipal officers; bond, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, §
22.072
§ 31.06 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Office of Municipal Attorney created. The office of Municipal Attorney
is created and shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by the Council.
The Municipal Attorney shall be a law firm or individual in private legal
practice, licensed in the State of Texas, that contracts with the city to
provide services as needed.
   (B)   Powers and duties of Municipal Attorney. The Municipal Attorney will
perform all duties required by law, ordinance, resolution, or order of the
governing body.
(Ord. 2018-11-05, passed 11-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Other municipal officers, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.071
   Powers and duties of municipal officers; bond, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, §
22.072
§ 31.07 MARSHAL/CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Office of Chief of Police. Pursuant to authority given under Tex. Loc.
Gov’t. Code, § 22.076, the office of Marshal is abolished, and the office of
Chief of Police is created. The Chief of Police shall receive such compensation
as may be fixed by the Council.
   (B)   Powers and duties of Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall be
qualified and trained to meet standards as prescribed by the State Commission
of Law Enforcement Officer Standards and Education (TCLEOSE). The Chief of
Police shall obtain and maintain all certifications as prescribed by law. The
Chief of Police shall be the Chief Law Enforcement Officer of the city, and as
such, have supervision over the other enforcement officers on his or her staff
and the Police Reserve Force. The Chief of Police shall perform all duties
required by law, ordinance, resolution, or order of the governing body.
   (C)   General duties.
      (1)   Conduct routine patrol of the city to prevent crime and act as
necessary: respond to emergency calls and routine complaints and disturbances,
including traffic accidents and domestic violence issues; report and respond to
suspicious circumstances, traffic violations, and hazards to life or property;
and serve warrants.
      (2)   Conduct investigations into criminal offenses: investigate crime
scenes; investigate gang activity; operate and maintain investigative
equipment; gather and label evidence maintaining a proper chain of custody;
take photographs and fingerprints for court case preparation; and escort and
interview witnesses and suspects.
      (3)   Make arrests; file charges before appropriate judges; book
violators of laws or individuals with outstanding warrants for their arrest.
      (4)   Accurately prepare and maintain written statements, depositions,
and reports concerning crimes, complaints, accidents, and investigations.
      (5)   Cooperate with other law enforcement agencies and municipal police
departments as directed and as appropriate: share information; serve on
interagency task forces; provide support for joint investigations and other law
enforcement operations.
      (6)   Act as department liaison with community groups to foster good
police/community relations: provide community residents with reliable
information regarding Police Department activities and crime prevention
methods; resolve complaints, concerns, issues or questions regarding Police
Department personnel or departmental policies or procedures; mediates and
negotiates conflicts and disagreements within the community.
      (7)   Manage Police Department resources: provide input on annual
operating budget; control and monitor expenses within Police Department budget;
assure fiscal responsibility and cost consciousness; identify sources for
grants and apply as appropriate; direct and coordinate the maintenance,
improvement, repair, replacement, and acquisition of property and equipment.
      (8)   Manage Police Department staff: coordinate and assign personnel to
shifts and delegate work as appropriate; supervise and evaluate the performance
of assigned staff; interview and select employees and make transfers,
reassignment, termination, and disciplinary actions; plan, coordinate, arrange
for and provide appropriate training of subordinates.
      (9)   Assure federal, state, county, and municipal laws and ordinances
are enforced; develop department operating policies and procedures.
      (10)   Prepare and review a variety of administrative reports,
correspondence, and other written materials; direct the preparation and
maintenance of police files, records, and reports; review and revise written
policy based on legislative changes, court decisions and City Council
directives.
      (11)   Supervise and coordinate special events as assigned; review and
approve special event permits and commercial filming permits.
      (12)   Perform code enforcement and animal control functions and other
duties as assigned.
      (13)   Advise City Administrator, Mayor, and City Council of critical
issues, decisions, and actions.
(Ord. 2018-11-05, passed 11-5-2018; Ord. 2021-11-02-01, passed 11-2-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Other municipal officers, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.071
   Powers and duties of municipal officers; bond, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, §
22.072
   Bond of Marshal; abolition of office, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.076
§ 31.08 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   Office of Municipal Engineer created. The Office of Municipal Engineer
is created and shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by the Council.
The Municipal Engineer shall be a firm or individual, certified as a
Professional Engineer with the State of Texas, that contracts with the city to
provide services as needed.
   (B)   Powers and duties of Municipal Engineer. The Municipal Engineer will
perform all duties required by law, ordinance, resolution, or order of the
governing body.
(Ord. 2018-11-05, passed 11-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Other municipal officers, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.071
   Powers and duties of municipal officers; bond, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, §
22.072
§ 31.09 MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   Municipal Court. The Municipal Court exists by operation of law.
   (B)   (1)   Jurisdiction. The Municipal Court shall have exclusive original
jurisdiction within the city’s territorial limits and property owned by the
city located in the city's extraterritorial jurisdiction in all criminal cases
that arise under:
         (a)   The ordinances of the city; or
         (b)   A resolution, rule, or order of a joint board operating an
airport under Tex. Transportation Code, § 22.074, and are punishable by a fine
not to exceed:
            1.   $2,000 in all cases arising under municipal ordinances or
resolutions, rules, or orders of a joint board that govern fire safety, zoning,
or public health and sanitation, other than the dumping of refuse;
            2.   $4,000 in cases arising under municipal ordinances that govern
the dumping of refuse; or
            3.   $500 in all other cases arising under a municipal ordinance or
a resolution, rule, or order of a joint board.
      (2)   The Municipal Court has concurrent jurisdiction with the Justice
Court of a precinct in which the municipality is located in all criminal cases
arising under state law that arise within the municipality's territorial limits
or property owned by the municipality located in the municipality's
extraterritorial jurisdiction and that:
         (a)   Are punishable by fine only, as defined in division (3) below;
or
         (b)   Arise under Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code, Ch. 106, and do not
include confinement as an authorized sanction.
      (3)   An offense which is punishable by fine only is defined as an
offense that is punishable by fine and such sanctions, if any, as authorized by
statute not consisting of confinement in jail or imprisonment. The fact that a
conviction in a municipal court has as a consequence the imposition of a
penalty or sanction by an agency or entity other than the court, such as a
denial, suspension, or revocation of a privilege, does not affect the original
jurisdiction of the Municipal Court. The Municipal Court has jurisdiction in
the forfeiture and final judgment of all bail bonds and personal bonds taken in
criminal cases of which the Court has jurisdiction.
      (4)   The Municipal Court shall have exclusive appellate jurisdiction
within the municipality's territorial limits in a case arising under Tex.
Transportation Code, Ch. 707.
   (C)   Office of Municipal Judge. The Judge of the Municipal Court will,
following appointment (by the Mayor) and confirmation (by the governing body),
serve for a term of office of two years unless the city provides for a longer
term pursuant to Article XI, Section 11, of the Texas Constitution. If the
Judge of the Municipal Court is not reappointed and confirmed by the ninety-
first day following the expiration of a term of office, the Judge of the
Municipal Court shall, absent action by the appointing authority (Mayor),
continue to serve for another term of office beginning on the date the previous
term of office expired.
   (D)   Qualifications. The Judge of the Municipal Court may (but not shall)
be licensed to practice law in the State of Texas.
   (E)   Duties of Municipal Judge. The Judge of the Municipal Court shall:
      (1)   Maintain a central docket of all cases filed in the geographic
limits of the city over which the Municipal Court of the city has jurisdiction;
      (2)   Distribute cases to associate judges, if necessary;
      (3)   Temporarily assign associate judges, when necessary;
      (4)   Cause all dockets, books, papers, and other records of the
Municipal Court to be permanently kept, and permit the records to be available
for inspection at all reasonable times to any interested person;
      (5)   Maintain, as part of the court records, an index to the Municipal
Court judgments, such as county clerks are required by law to prepare for
criminal cases arising in county courts;
      (6)   Provide for the preservation of the Court's records on microfilm,
when necessary; and
      (7)   Supervise the operations, clerical functions, administration of the
municipal court, and all clerical personnel in the Administrative Department of
the Municipal Court.
(Ord. 2018-11-05, passed 11-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Court, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, §§ 29.002 - 29.007
   Clerk, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 29.010
§ 31.10 MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Office of Municipal Administrator. The Office of Municipal
Administrator is created and shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by
the Council.
   (B)   The Municipal Administrator shall be the Chief Administrative Officer
of the city and shall be responsible to the governing body for the proper
administration of the affairs of the city and the coordination of activities
delegated to other officers. To that end, the City Administrator shall have the
authority, duty, and responsibility as required to carry out the following
responsibilities to the extent such responsibilities are assigned to the City
Administrator:
      (1)   General duties.
         (a)   Serve as the principal advisor to the Mayor in the performance
of his or her duties, as appropriate.
         (b)   Establish and maintain effective working relationships with the
governing body, municipal officers, and municipal employees.
         (c)   Provide the governing body with pertinent information regarding
the administration of all city departments and city activities.
         (d)   Work with the Mayor and governing body to develop and implement
short- and long-range plans for the city's growth, including strategic and
comprehensive plans and a capital improvement program (CIP) for the city;
recommend to the governing body programs and actions to improve the quality of
life for all citizens of the city.
         (e)   Complete all tasks generally assigned to the City Administrator
and working closely with the Municipal Clerk, Municipal Accountant, Municipal
Attorney, Municipal Judge, Municipal Engineer, Chief of Police, and other city
staff to develop, present, implement, administer, coordinate, and manage all of
the following:
            1.   Municipal elections;
            2.   Contracts and discussions with vendors on behalf of the City
Council;
            3.   Annual budgets and tax rates;
            4.   Permitting and code enforcement;
            5.   The city's website and public communications;
            6.   Municipal utility services, customer accounts, and billing;
and
            7.   Operations and maintenance of city-owned or leased property,
facilities, assets, and equipment, including city parks and utility
infrastructure.
      (2)   Management. Oversee, provide administrative direction, and
coordinate the activities of all city departments and delegate duties to city
municipal officers and employees as appropriate; establish the organizational
structure of the city, internal policies and procedures, and job descriptions
for approval by the City Council; hire, discipline, and remove city employees,
except for those municipal officers appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the
City Council in accordance with §
31.02 of this chapter; conduct performance evaluations of municipal officers
and employees at least annually for review by the Mayor and approval by the
City Council.
      (3)   Development-related activities. When the position(s) is vacant, and
unless otherwise delegated, serve as City Planner, Zoning Administrator,
Building Official, and Historic Preservation Official in accordance with the
city's ordinances; issue development-related permits, including subdivision
plats, building permits and historic preservation approvals; administer and
enforce the provisions of all zoning provisions and serve as a nonvoting ex
officio member and secretary to the Planning and Zoning Commission; facilitate
the development and negotiation of development agreements.
      (4)   Procurement. Purchase of all materials, supplies, equipment, and
services for which funds are provided in the budget; purchase budgeted
materials and supplies necessary for operation or maintenance of the city
services, for amounts up to and including $3,000, in compliance with city
procedures and competitive and professional state procurement laws.
      (5)   Miscellaneous. Perform all other duties required to be performed by
the City Administrator under state law and ordinances and policies of the city.
The City Administrator shall have such further authority, duties and
responsibilities as reasonably implied from the terms of this section and as
heretofore or hereafter provided by the City Council.
      (6)   Interaction with City Council members. The City Administrator may
receive comments or advice from individual Council members. However, only the
Council, acting in accordance with law at a regular or special meeting, will
have authority to direct the City Administrator in regard to the execution of
his or her duties and responsibilities. The City Administrator may consult with
the Mayor regarding routine administrative matters, but will not be bound to
comply with any directions provided by the Mayor unless the City Council has
approved the directions in a regular or special meeting and in accordance with
law.
      (7)   Floodplain Administrator. Serve as the city's Floodplain
Administrator after receiving proper training.
(Ord. 2018-11-05, passed 11-5-2018; Ord. 2021-11-02-01, passed 11-2-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Other municipal officers, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code, § 22.071
CHAPTER 32: FEES AND FINES
Section
   
32.01   Driving safety course; fee
   
32.02   Warrant fee
   
32.03   Collection of certain fees by Municipal Court
   
32.04   Land use application fees
   
32.05   Credit card payments generally
   
32.06   Checks dishonored for payment, fee
§ 32.01 DRIVING SAFETY COURSE; FEE.
   A $10 administrative fee will be charged to a person requesting a driving
safety course in connection with a Municipal Court case.
(Ord. 87-1117, passed 9-15-1987)
§ 32.02 WARRANT FEE.
   (A)   A special fee of $50 is imposed for the issuance and service of arrest
warrants issued out of the Municipal Court in accordance with Tex. Code of
Crim. Proc. Art., 102.011.
   (B)   If a person after issuance of an arrest warrant, voluntarily appears
at the Municipal Court without the warrant being served and without the Police
Department having sent a notice to the person, the fee may not be imposed. The
fee may be imposed without a court order. The fee will be collected regardless
of whether or not the defendant is convicted. The fee collected shall be
deposited into the municipal treasury.
(Ord. 1122B, passed - -1996)
§ 32.03 COLLECTION OF CERTAIN FEES BY MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Municipal Court Building Security Fund for
the city. Each defendant convicted of a misdemeanor offense in the Municipal
Court shall pay a $3 security fee as a cost of court. All fees collected shall
be deposited in a separate account in which the Municipal Court Building
Security Fund shall be maintained and designated pursuant to this section. The
City Municipal Court Building Security Fund shall be used only to finance items
when used for the purpose of providing security services for buildings housing
the Municipal Court, including those items listed in the Tex. Code of Crim.
Proc., Art. 102.017. The Municipal Court Building Fund shall be administered by
or under the direction of the City Council.
   (B)   There is hereby created the Municipal Court Technology Fund. Each
defendant convicted of a misdemeanor offense in the Municipal Court shall pay a
technology fee in the amount of $4 as a cost of court. The Municipal Court
Technology Fund shall be maintained in a separate account and the fund shall be
used only to finance the purchase of or to maintain technological enhancements
for the Municipal Court, including those items listed in the Tex. Code of Crim.
Pro., Art. 102.0172.
   (C)   There is hereby created the City Municipal Court Efficiency Fund,
which shall be dedicated to improving the efficient operation of the Municipal
Court of the city. The fee of $2.50 per conviction established by Tex. Loc.
Gov't Code, § 133.103, shall be deposited in the Municipal Court Efficiency
Fund.
(Ord. 05-1122B, passed - -2005)
§ 32.04 LAND USE APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   Incorporation of premises. The above and foregoing premises are true
and correct and are incorporated herein and made a part hereof for all
purposes.
   (B)   Payment of professional fees and administrative costs. All reasonable
costs incurred by the city for professional review of applications for approval
of concept plans, zoning changes, site plans, planned development, plats,
consent requests and other development or land use related permits shall be
borne by the applicant, and payable to the city prior to final approval of the
application. The professional fees shall include, but not necessarily be
limited to, civil engineering, traffic engineering, expenses for related legal
fees, land planning and financial analysis in order that the application can be
properly evaluated to achieve compliance with the city’s Comprehensive Plan,
Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance, subdivision regulations and other city
regulations. In addition, a $10 fee to recover the city’s internal
administrative costs will be charged for each application that involves
professional review costs of $80 or less, and a $25 fee to recover the city’s
internal administrative costs will be charged for each application that
involves professional review costs more than $80.
   (C)   Deposit required. In accordance with division (B) above, the City
Secretary shall require a deposit in the amount of $1,000 for those services at
the time the initial application related to a development is filed. The actual
costs will be determined prior to final approval of an application, and either
an additional sum will be due from the applicant, or a reimbursement made, if
the actual cost is less than the deposit. If a development will involve more
than one application, the City Secretary may allow the initial deposit to apply
to more than one application, or the City Secretary may require an additional
deposit for other applications. Upon written request by an applicant, the City
Secretary will provide the applicant with documentation detailing actual costs
of development review.
   (D)   Refusal of permits. The City Secretary, or his or her designee, may
refuse to issue any building permits to the applicant or their successors or
assigns, if the fees are not paid.
   (E)   Cumulative. This section shall be cumulative of all other ordinances
and shall not repeal any of the provisions of ordinances, except for those
instances where there are direct conflicts with the provisions of this section.
Ordinances, or parts thereof, in force at the time this section shall take
effect
and that are inconsistent with this section are hereby repealed, to the extent
that they are inconsistent with this section. Provided, however, that any
complaint, action, claim or lawsuit which has been initiated or has arisen
under or pursuant to other ordinances on the date of adoption of this section
shall continue to be governed by the provisions of the ordinance, and for that
purpose, the section shall remain in full force and effect.
   (F)   Savings. All rights and remedies of the city are expressly saved as to
any and all violations of the provisions of any ordinances affecting
development fees which have accrued at the time of the effective date of this
section; and, as to the accrued violations and all pending litigation, both
civil and criminal, whether pending in court or not, under those ordinances,
same shall not be affected by this section, but may be prosecuted until final
disposition by the courts.
   (G)   Engrossment and enrollment. The City Secretary is hereby directed to
engross and enroll this section by copying the exact caption and the effective
date clause in the minutes of the City Council of the city and by filing this
section in the ordinance records of the city.
(Ord. 08-352, passed 6-10-2008; Ord. 2012-03-01, passed 3-6-2012)
§ 32.05 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Acceptance of credit cards for payment of fees, fines, court costs and
other charges. Officers and employees of the city may accept credit cards for
payment for any fees, fines, court costs or other charges owed to the city.
   (B)   Fee for processing payments by credit card. Officers and employees of
the city shall assess a credit card processing fee in the amount of:
      (1)   Five percent for any payment up to $100; and
      (2)   A flat rate of $5 for any payment over $100.
   (C)   Publication of notice. This section does not impose a penalty, fine or
forfeiture, and therefore publication of notice of its adoption is not required
under Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, § 52.011.
(Ord. 2010-383, passed 2-2-2010)
§ 32.06    CHECKS DISHONORED FOR PAYMENT, FEE.
   (A)   Officers and employees of the city shall charge a processing fee in
the amount of $25 for each check that a person has given to the city that is
dishonored for payment, in addition to the amount charged by the bank for the
dishonored check. This fee will not be charged if a processing fee has been
collected from a person in connection with criminal charges filed against the
person based on the dishonored check.
   (B)   A service charge will be charged each time a check or similar
instrument is returned by the bank.
(Ord. 2011-06-02, passed 6-21-2011; Ord. 2013-11-05, passed 11-5-2013)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   National Incident Management System
§ 33.01 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The city hereby adopts the current version of the National Incident
Management System as promulgated by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
(Ord. 06-2001, passed 9-19-2006)
CHAPTER 34: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
   
34.01   Ad valorem tax
   
34.02   Exempting freeport property
   
34.03   Hotel occupancy tax
   
34.04   Parks Restricted Fund
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 AD VALOREM TAX.
   (A)   (1)   In 2001, the Texas Legislature approved Senate Joint Resolution
6, which was subsequently approved by the eligible voters of the State of Texas
authorizing a "super freeport" property tax exemption for certain tangible
personal property; and
      (2)   The Texas Legislature in the 80th Legislative Session approved
House Bill 621 (hereinafter referred to as "HB 621"), as the enabling statute
for the "super freeport" property tax exemption approved by the voters in 2001;
and
      (3)   HB 621 adds Tex. Tax Code, § 11.253 and exempts from property taxes
any tangible personal property (other than oil and gas, aircraft, dealer's
motor vehicle inventory, dealer's boat inventory, dealer's heavy equipment
inventory, and retail manufactured housing) that is located at a site for less
than 175 days and is not under the control of the property owner; and
      (4)   Tex. Tax Code, § 11.253(j) provides that the City Council of the
City of Martindale, Texas, may in the manner required for official action by
the governing body, provide for the taxation of goods-in-transit exempt
provided for pursuant to Tex. Tax Code, § 11.253(b), and not exempt under other
law. Moreover, the official action to tax the goods-in-transit must be taken
before January 1 of the first tax year in which the City Council of the City of
Martindale, Texas, proposes to tax goods-in-transit; and
      (5)   Tex. Tax Code, § 11.253(j) also provides that "before acting to tax
the exempt property, the governing body of the taxing unit must conduct a
public hearing as required by Section 1-n(d), Article VIII, Texas Constitution.
If the governing body of a taxing unit provides for the taxation of the goods-
in-transit as provided by this subsection, the exemption prescribed by
Subsection (b) does not apply to that unit. The goods-in-transit remain subject
to taxation by the taxing unit until the governing body of the taxing unit, in
the manner required for official action, rescinds or repeals its previous
action to tax goods-in-transit, or otherwise determines that the exemption
prescribed by Subsection (b) will apply to that taxing unit"; and
      (6)   Tex. Tax Code, § 11.253(j) also provides that a decision to
continue taxing super freeport goods can be reversed for a future tax year; and
      (7)   The City Council of the City of Martindale, Texas, held a public
hearing prior to the passage of this section, consistent with HB 621 and Tex.
Tax Code, § 11.253; and
      (8)   The City Council of the City of Martindale, Texas, finds and
determines that the super freeport exemption as authorized by Tex. Tax Code, §
11.253 is not in the best interest of the City of Martindale, Texas.
   (B)   The following terms have the same meaning as defined in Tex. Tax Code,
§ 11.253, as amended. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEALER'S MOTOR VEHICLE INVENTORY, DEALER'S VESSEL AND OUTBOARD MOTOR
INVENTORY, DEALER'S HEAVY EQUIPMENT INVENTORY, and RETAIL MANUFACTURED HOUSING
INVENTORY. Have the meanings assigned by Tex. Tax Code, Ch. 23, Subchapter B,
as amended.
      GOODS-IN-TRANSIT. Tangible personal property that:
         (a)   Is acquired in or imported into this state to be forwarded to
another location in this state or outside this state;
         (b)   Is detained at a location in this state in which the owner of
the property does not have a direct or indirect ownership interest for
assembling, storing, manufacturing, processing or fabricating purposes by the
person who acquired or imported the property;
         (c)   Is transported to another location in this state or outside this
state not later than 175 days after the date the person acquired the property
in or imported the property into this state; and
         (d)   Does not include oil, natural gas, petroleum products, aircraft,
dealer's motor vehicle inventory, dealer's vessel and outboard motor inventory,
dealer's heavy equipment inventory or retail manufactured housing inventory.
      LOCATION. A physical address.
      PETROLEUM PRODUCT. A liquid or gaseous material that is an immediate
derivative of the refining of oil or natural gas.
   (C)   A person is not entitled to an exemption from taxation of the
appraised value of that portion of the person's property that consists of
goods-in-transit. A person's property consisting of goods-in-transit is hereby
subject to ad valorem taxation pursuant to Tex. Tax Code, § 11.253, as amended.
(Ord. 07-234, passed 11-20-2007)
§ 34.02 EXEMPTING FREEPORT PROPERTY.
   (A)   Exemption of freeport goods from property taxation. The city exempts
from taxation all tangible personal property that qualifies as freeport goods
under Article VIII, § 1(j) of the State Constitution, and the criteria applied
by the County Appraisal District.
   (B)   Tax year in which the exemption takes effect. This section will apply
beginning with the 2010 tax year.
(Ord. 09-367, passed 8-4-2009)
§ 34.03 HOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. Words and terms defined in Tex. Tax Code, § 351.001 shall
have those same definitions when used in this section.
   (B)   Levy and collection of hotel occupancy tax.
      (1)   A tax is imposed on each person who, under a lease, concession,
permit, right of access, license, contract or agreement, pays for the use or
possession or for the right to the use or possession of a room that is in a
hotel, that costs $2 or more each day and that is ordinarily used for sleeping.
      (2)   The tax shall be 7% of the price paid for the room. The price of a
room does not include the cost of food served by the hotel and the cost of
personal services performed by the hotel for the person, except for those
services related to cleaning and readying the room for use or possession.
      (3)   The tax shall not apply to a person who has a right to use or
possess a room in a hotel for at least 30 consecutive days, so long as there is
no interruption of payment for the period.
      (4)   The tax imposed by this section shall be collected by the person
who owns, operates, manages or controls the hotel in which the room for which
the tax is imposed is located.
      (5)   The tax imposed by this section applies within the city limits and
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city.
   (C)   Reporting and payment.
      (1)   Every person required in division (B)(4) above to collect a tax
shall file a report with the Director of Finance showing the amount paid for
all rooms during each calendar quarter, the amount of tax collected and any
other information the city may reasonably require.
      (2)   Reports shall be filed and the full amount of taxes due shall be
paid within 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter.
      (3)   Reports shall be filed and taxes shall be paid at the City Finance
Department. The Director of Finance is designated to provide receipts showing
amounts paid, certificates stating that no tax is due and statements of the
amount due.
      (4)   A late charge of 15% of the total amount due that is not received
by the due date will be assessed against persons required to collect the tax
under division (B)(4) above.
      (5)   An interest charge of 1% per month of the total amount due,
including late charges, that is not received within 60 days of the due date
will be assessed against persons required to collect a tax under division (B)
(4) above.
      (6)   In addition to other remedies available to the city, the persons
required to collect a tax under division (B)(4) above are liable to the city
for the city's reasonable attorney's fees in collecting delinquent hotel
occupancy taxes and penalties.
      (7)   It is unlawful for any person to file a report under this section
which contains any materially false or misleading information.
      (8)   For purposes of this section, the date indicated by a U.S. Post
Office postmark on an envelope mailed to the city at its correct address,
containing a report or payment due under this section, is considered the date
of receipt by the city.
   (D)   Access to records. Each person who owns, operates, manages or controls
a hotel shall allow access to all books and records necessary to verify the
accuracy of any report filed as required by this section, upon reasonable
notice by the city.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.04 PARKS RESTRICTED FUND.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to establish a
Parks Restricted Fund for the exclusive use of revenue generated from parks and
parking facilities within the jurisdiction of the city. The creation of this
fund will ensure that all revenue derived from park and parking operations will
be restricted and dedicated solely to parks and recreational activities,
development, and projects within the community.
   (B)   Creation of the Parks Restricted Fund.
      (1)   Establishment of the fund. The Parks Restricted Fund (hereinafter
referred to as the “fund”) is hereby established as a separate and restricted
fund within the municipal budget of the city.
      (2)   Parks special revenue. The fund shall receive revenue granted from
the following sources:
         (a)   Park admission fees;
         (b)   Parking fees and fines within parks and parking facilities;
         (c)   Donations and grants specifically designated for park and
recreational purposes; and
         (d)   Any other revenue generated directly from parks and parking
operations within the jurisdiction or under this chapter.
   (C)   Restricted uses.
      (1)   Restricted expenses. The revenue held within the Parks Restricted
Fund shall be used exclusively for the following purposes:
         (a)   Development and maintenance of parks and recreational
facilities;
         (b)   Implementation of park improvement projects;
         (c)   Funding of recreational and community programs and activities;
         (d)   Acquiring additional parkland or open space for public use; and
         (e)   Any other expenses directly related to the enhancement and
maintenance of parks and recreational activities within the community.
      (2)   Prohibited uses. The funds within the Parks Restricted Fund shall
not be utilized for any purpose other than those outlined in division (A)
above. These funds shall not be diverted or used for general government
expenses, operational costs unrelated to parks and recreation, or any other
non-recreational purposes.
   (D)   Administration and oversight.
      (1)   Fund management. The Finance Director shall be responsible for the
administration and management of the Parks Restricted Fund.
      (2)   Reporting and accountability. Annual reports detailing the revenues
collected, expenditures made, and the status of the fund shall be provided to
the City Council, and made available to the public to ensure transparency and
accountability.
(Ord. 2023-09-21-02, passed 9-21-2023)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates any provision of §
34.03 shall be punished, upon conviction, by a fine not to exceed $500.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
34.03(B)(1) above, no penalty for a violation shall be greater or less than the
penalty provided for the same or similar offense under the laws of the state.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in §
34.03, a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day on or during
which a violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   Prosecution for violation of a provision of §
34.03 above is not a prerequisite or bar to any other remedy or relief for the
violation under state law or §
34.03.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2010)
CHAPTER 35: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
Section
General Rules and Procedures
   
35.01   Purpose and objective
   
35.02   Boards and Commissions rules
Individual Boards, Commissions and Committees
   
35.10   Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
   
35.11   River Advisory Board
Cross-reference:
   Historic Preservation Commission, see §
151.03
GENERAL RULES AND PROCEDURES
§ 35.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   The purpose and objective of this subchapter is to provide clear rules and
regulations for the governance and conduct of city boards, committees, and
commissions.
(Ord. 2023-01-05-01, passed 1-5-2023)
§ 35.02 BOARDS AND COMMISSION RULES.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   All applications for boards and commissions shall be submitted to
the City Clerk.
      (2)   Applications for boards and commissions may be submitted at any
time to the City Clerk for consideration for appointment.
      (3)   Applications for all boards and commissions shall be valid for one
year after submission. A completed application must be on file in order for an
individual to be considered for appointment to a board or commission.
      (4)   Applicants may attach supporting documents with completed
applications.
   (B)   Board and Commission appointments.
      (1)   In addition to any other applicable notification requirement,
public notices will be provided for all board and commission vacancies. In
addition, the office of the City Clerk will post a call for applications on the
city's website; billing and city hall.
      (2)   The City Clerk will forward the applications to the City Council
for their review.
      (3)   Applicants not selected to serve on the board or commission for
which he or she has applied after one year since submission shall assume their
application is denied.
      (4)   The provisions of this section also apply to mayoral appointments.
      (5)   The office of the City Clerk shall submit applications to the City
Council. The City Council will review the applications to determine a proposed
slate for Council consideration, and may request to conduct interviews of
applicants during a Council meeting.
      (6)   Official selection by the City Council shall take place no sooner
than one week after the date of the Council committee meeting, unless otherwise
directed by the City Council.
      (7)   If an interview is requested, nominees must appear in person for
the interview. If an individual is ill, out of town, or cannot appear in
person, a written statement must be submitted to the office of the City Clerk
prior to the date of the interview, in order to be considered for appointment.
An individual will not be considered for appointment if he or she fails to
appear in person for the interview or fails to submit a written statement.
   (C)   Membership.
      (1)   All advisory boards will consist of five members appointed by the
City Council unless stated otherwise.
      (2)   In order to be qualified to serve, all applicants for boards and
commissions must be residents of the city or within the extra territorial
jurisdiction (ETJ), and continue such residency during the term of their
appointment, if appointed.
      (3)   Board and commission members cannot serve on more than one board
during an active term.
      (4)   Members of the Martindale City Council cannot serve on any boards
or commission, other than the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (5)   Chair.
         (a)   At each new committee’s first meeting or as soon as immediately
possible, the committee shall elect one committee member to serve as chair for
one term year.
         (b)   The chair is the chief executive officer of the committee. The
chair shall at all times actively ensure that the laws and ordinances of the
municipality are properly carried out. The chair shall give to the City Council
reports and recommendations to the governing body any measure, that relates to
improving objectives described in the purpose of their committee. In good
faith, the chair shall accurately report recommendations of the board or
commission to the City Council.
      (6)   Vice-chair.
         (a)   At each new committee’s first meeting or as soon as practicable,
the committee shall elect one committee member to serve as vice-chair for one
term year.
         (b)   If the chair fails, is unable, or refuses to act, the vice-chair
shall perform the chair’s duties. If the chair and the vice-chair are absent,
any committee member may be appointed to preside at the meeting.
      (7)   Records officer.
         (a)   At each new committee’s first meeting or as soon as practicable,
the board or commission shall elect one committee member to serve as records
officer for one term year.
         (b)   The records officer shall keep accurate minutes of the governing
body’s proceedings.
         (c)   Take charge of, arrange, and maintain the records of the board
or commission.
         (d)   Prepare all notices required under any regulation or ordinance
of the municipality.
         (e)   The records officer shall comply with the city’s adopted record
management policy.
      (8)   When making appointments to boards and commissions, the city shall
not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran status, age or disability.
   (D)   Terms of office.
      (1)   Length of term. Board or commission members are appointed for a
term of office of two years. The term of office for each board or commission
member will run concurrently with the terms of office of the City Council that
appoints each member.
      (2)   Each board member shall be assigned a place number.
         (a)   Appointments to board members place 1, 3, 5 term duration shall
be reconsidered every odd year.
         (b)   Appointments to board members place 2 and 4 term duration shall
be reconsidered very even year.
      (3)   Appointments made during an existing term are for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
      (4)   Call for applications for expiring terms shall initiate four months
prior to the expiration.
      (5)   Term limits shall extend from May 15 to May 14.
   (E)   Meeting procedures.
      (1)   Boards and commissions will conduct meetings in accordance with the
latest edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, or in accordance with meeting
procedures adopted by the board or commission that ensure basic parliamentary
procedures are followed.
      (2)   Board and commission meetings shall be conducted in accordance with
the Texas Open Meetings Act. A majority of the number of seats on the board or
commission shall constitute a quorum to convene a meeting; in all other matters
upon which the board or commission may vote, a majority of the members in
office shall be necessary for adoption. Non-voting members do not count when
determining a quorum.
      (3)   The City Clerk office shall be responsible for posting the meeting
notices 72 hours prior to the meeting.
      (4)   Boards and commissions shall meet periodically once a month; other
than Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (5)   All board and commission meetings shall be held in the City Council
chamber.
      (6)   Proxy votes are not allowed.
      (7)   The board or commission record officer shall prepare and maintain
minutes of the board or commission meetings. Such minutes shall be maintained
in accordance with the city’s records retention schedule. All records are
subject to the Texas Public Information Act.
   (F)   Attendance.
      (1)   If a board or commission member’s attendance at regularly scheduled
meetings falls below 50% on an annual basis from the appointment date, or a
member misses three regularly scheduled consecutive meetings, the respective
department liaison shall notify the office of the City Clerk, who shall
coordinate the attendance issue with the City Council. The City Clerk, as
applicable, shall notify the member in writing that the member will be removed
from the respective board or commission, without any further action by the City
Council.
      (2)   Such removal shall act as direction to the office of the City Clerk
to advertise for applications to the board or commission from which the member
was removed, in the same manner as described in division (B)(1), as applicable.
The new member shall serve out the remainder of the term of the removed member.
      (3)   A member who is removed from a board or commission for failure to
meet the attendance requirement is ineligible to seek appointment to any board
or commission for a period of one calendar year from the date of the member’s
automatic removal.
   (G)   Removal from office.
      (1)   All board and commission members serve at the pleasure of the City
Council and may be removed from office at the discretion of the City Council
without cause, such removal to be evidenced by the appointment of a new
appointee.
      (2)   Requests for removal of a board or commission member must be
initiated in writing by the City Council member is directed to the office of
the City Clerk. Such request will be considered at the following regular City
Council meeting. If the request for removal of a board or commission member
passes then the office of the City Clerk is to advertise for applications to
the board or commission from which the member was removed in the same manner as
described in division (B)(1), as applicable. The request may also direct the
office of the City Clerk to place the name of a new appointee on the next
available City Council agenda for appointment. The new member shall serve out
the remainder of the term of the removed member.
   (H)   Resignations.
      (1)   All resignations must be in writing, filed with the office of the
City Clerk, and state the specific date of resignation and the name of the
board or commission from which the member is resigning.
      (2)   All resignations shall take effect upon receipt by the office of
the City Clerk and without any further action by the City Council, shall
constitute an automatic removal from the board or commission and act as
direction to the office of the City Clerk to advertise for applications to the
board or commission from which the member resigned in the same manner as
described in division (B)(1), as applicable. The new member shall serve out the
remainder of the term of the resigned member.
   (I)   Vacancy.
      (1)   In the event of a vacancy of either chair, vice-chair, or record
officer, the committee shall at the next committee meeting first item for
consideration is to appoint a member of the committee to complete the vacancy’s
term.
      (2)   If the committee fails to appoint a member of the committee to
either chair, vice-chair, or record officer at the next committee meeting then
the Mayor shall appoint a member of the committee to occupy the position at the
next Council meeting.
      (3)   When a position is vacant on the commission, a replacement board
member shall be appointed in the same manner as described in division (B)(1),
as applicable.
         (a)   The Chapter I (3)(c) is to reoccurring at until the vacancy is
occupied.
   (J)   New member orientation and swearing-in.
      (1)   A thorough orientation will be provided to all newly appointed
board and commission members by the City Administrator or City Clerk. Specific
information on policies and procedures for the respective board or commission
will be provided at that time. Board and commission members will sign a
document to verify that they have attended the necessary orientation. The
pertinent City Clerk shall maintain records of these documents in accordance
with the city’s records retention schedule.
      (2)   Continuing education programs will be instituted by the City
Administrator or written designee shall provide up-to-date information on any
legislation or other pertinent information that would affect the department’s
respective board or commission. Board and commission members must be kept
abreast of all issues related to the board or commission and its
responsibilities.
      (3)   Newly appointed members will be invited to a swearing-in ceremony
to be scheduled by the office of the City Clerk.
      (4)   The failure or refusal to attend the department orientation within
the first year of service shall constitute an automatic removal without further
action by the City Council. The office of the City Clerk shall notify the
appointing Council member and the board member of the removal. A replacement
board member shall be appointed in the same manner as described in division (B)
(1), as applicable.
      (5)   A member who is automatically removed from a board or commission
for failure to attend the department orientation requirement is ineligible to
seek appointment to any board or commission for a period of one calendar year
from the date of the member’s automatic removal.
   (K)   City Council committee oversight.
      (1)   Each board and commission will report to the City Council.
      (2)   The office of the City Clerk shall maintain a list of this
reporting relationship, which will include the name of each city board and
commission and its designated City Council committee.
      (3)   Written reports from each board or commission regarding its
activities and recommendations must be provided to the City Council on a
monthly basis and upon request.
      (4)   A comprehensive report from each board or commission regarding its
activities and recommendations must be provided to the City Council on an
annual basis before the end of the fiscal year.
   (L)   Comprehensive Plan. Above all purposes assigned to boards or
commissions; boards or commissions shall align their objectives and
recommendations to the City Council with most current strategic or master plan
adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 2023-01-05-01, passed 1-5-2023)
INDIVIDUAL BOARDS, COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS
§ 35.10 PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The City Parks & Recreation Advisory Board is created. All Advisory
Board members will have a known and demonstrated interest, competence, or
knowledge of city parks. The Advisory Board should generally reflect the ethnic
makeup of the city, when possible.
   (B)   The Advisory Board will meet monthly. Special meetings may be called
at any time by the Chair or on the written request of any two Advisory Board
members. All meetings will be held in conformance with the Texas Open Meetings
Act, Tex. Gov’t Code, Ch. 551. The Advisory Board will ensure that written
minutes are maintained to record all actions taken by the Advisory Board.
   (C)   A quorum will consist of a majority of the full authorized membership.
   (D)   The Parks & Recreation Advisory Board will:
      (1)   Act in an advisory capacity to the City Council and the Planning
and Zoning Commission on all policies, rules and regulations relating to the
administration of city parks, recreation facilities, and recreation activities;
      (2)   Provide advisory oversight of city parks, recreation facilities,
and recreation activities, and of recreation facilities and activities on other
properties with the consent of the owners or persons in charge of the
properties;
      (3)   Recommend any form of recreation activity that will employ the
leisure time of residents and visitors in a constructive and wholesome manner;
      (4)   Submit a report to the City Council in July of each year with the
following information:
         (a)   Achievements/upgrades/improvements since the prior annual
report;
         (b)   Make recommendations to the City Council concerning the longterm
plan for city parks; and
         (c)   Propose plans for upgrades/improvements to be considered during
the next fiscal year’s budget cycle (October 1 to September 30);
      (5)   Act in an advisory capacity to the City Council and city staff and
to other political subdivisions on acquiring, operating, improving and
maintaining real property, facilities and equipment for parks, recreation
facilities, and recreation activities;
      (6)   Make recommendations to the City Council and city staff on the
city’s Comprehensive Plan and any other master plans regarding real property,
facilities and equipment for parks, recreation facilities, and recreation
activities, and on implementing the directives of the Comprehensive Plan and
any other master plans; and
      (7)   Make recommendations to the City Council and city staff concerning
the utilization of state, federal, or private funds to promote acquiring,
operating, improving and maintaining real property, facilities and equipment
for parks, recreation facilities, and recreation activities.
(Ord. 2013-19-11, passed 11-19-2013; Ord. 2021-01-12, passed 1-12-2021; Ord.
2021-02-02, passed 2-2-2021; Ord. 2023-01-05-02, passed 1-5-2023; Ord. 2023-01-
05-03, passed 1-5-2023)
§ 35.11 RIVER ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The River Advisory Board should include:
         (a)   Members who have demonstrated concern for and the desire to
improve the status of the natural resources and living environment of the city;
         (b)   Members who have professional expertise, or who have
demonstrated expertise, in geology, hydrology, civil engineering, land
planning, ecology, arboriculture, urban forestry, or landscape architecture
      (2)   Not more than three members should be employed in land development
or related activities.
   (B)   The Board may:
      (1)   Review and analyze the policies relating to the environmental
quality of the city;
      (2)   Act as an advisory board to the City Council, the Municipal
Administrator, and the Department in their efforts to oversee the protection
and integrity of the natural environment;
      (3)   Promote growth management and land use planning, minimize
degradation of water resources, protect downstream areas, and promote
recreation opportunities and environmental awareness; and
      (4)   Advise and recommend on any issue which the Board determines
necessary or advisable for the enhancement and stewardship of the urban forest
both public and private.
   (C)   The Board shall:
      (1)   Assist the City Council, the Municipal Administrator, and the
Department in studying, promoting the health, safety, welfare and quality of
life of all citizens within the city’s incorporated boundaries as well as those
within its extraterritorial jurisdiction where the boundaries apply; and
      (2)   Oversee the development and implementation of a Comprehensive Plan
for the planting, maintenance, and replacement of trees in the city’s
jurisdiction, and revise the Plan as necessary. When a portion of the Plan has
been developed and established, it shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption before implementation.
   (D)   The Advisory Board will meet monthly. Special meetings may be called
at any time by the Chair or on the written request of any two Advisory Board
members. All meetings will be held in conformance with the Texas Open Meetings
Act, Tex. Gov’t Code, Ch. 551. The Advisory Board will ensure that written
minutes are maintained to record all actions taken by the Advisory Board.
   (E)   The Board shall advise the City Council, the Municipal Administrator,
and other city departments concerning policies, projects, and programs that
affect the quality of life or have the potential to affect the environment,
including those that relate to or affect:
      (1)   Water quality:
         (a)   Watershed protection;
         (b)   Urban runoff;
         (c)   Innovative wastewater treatment;
         (d)   Regional wastewater treatment;
         (e)   Improvement and protection of the San Marcos River; and
         (f)   Wastewater irrigation;
      (2)   Growth management and land use planning:
         (a)   Municipal utility district review;
         (b)   Capital improvement project review; and
         (c)   The Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   Construction controls for erosion and sedimentation;
      (4)   City environmental policies regarding monitoring and enforcement;
      (5)   Solid waste disposal plan alternatives;
      (6)   Watershed protection:
         (a)   Flood control;
         (b)   Erosion control;
         (c)   Water quality; and
         (d)   Utility management;
      (7)   Roadway planning;
      (8)   Beautification;
      (9)   Recreation resources;
      (10)   Public education on environmental matters;
      (11)   Hazardous waste materials management;
      (12)   Revegetation and landscaping;
      (13)   Air quality;
      (14)   Noise abatement; and
      (15)   All matters pertaining to the city’s urban forest, including
public and private trees.
   (F)   The Board shall:
      (1)   Review all variances to requirements for water quality protection;
      (2)   Review the monitoring of storm water runoff in developed and
undeveloped areas;
      (3)   Review the efficiency of existing and proposed structural and
nonstructural water quality controls;
      (4)   Periodically review the effectiveness of Title XV (Land Usage);
      (5)   Review waste treatment permits within the city’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction;
      (6)   Review programs and policies for flood control, erosion control,
and water quality;
      (7)   Review capital improvement projects;
      (8)   Review municipal utility district proposals and amendments;
      (9)   Review roadway plan amendments;
      (10)   Recommend urban runoff standards; and
      (11)   Review the environmental elements of planned unit developments.
   (G)   The Board may recommend, with the advice and consent of the City
Council, specific project studies concerning any of the matters described in
divisions (D) and (E), or any other related environmental or urban forestry
issue.
   (H)   The Board shall make reports and recommendations for standards and
criteria concerning any of the matters described in divisions (D) and (E), or
any other related environmental or urban forestry issue.
   (I)   The Board shall promote close cooperation between the city and all
private citizens, institutions, and agencies interested in or conducting
natural resource, environmental, and urban forestry activities, so that all
similar activities within the city may be coordinated to secure the greatest
public welfare.
   (J)   A project for which commission review is required must be submitted to
the appropriate staff before the meeting at which it will be considered.
(Ord. 2023-01-05-04, passed 1-5-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   SEWER/WASTEWATER PROVISIONS
         
51.   SOLID WASTE; RECYCLING
CHAPTER 50: SEWER/WASTEWATER PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Precedence of chapter over contracts
   
50.03   Rates apply to all users
   
50.04   Classification of users
   
50.05   Rates set by City Council
   
50.06   Surcharges for industrial waste and similar wastewater
   
50.07   Tap fee and capital recovery fee
   
50.08   Basis for rate structure
   
50.09   Bills for wastewater service
   
50.10   Sufficiency of rates
   
50.11   Free service prohibited
   
50.12   Deposit requirements
   
50.13   Schedule of rates and charges
   
50.14   Connection requirements for new uses
   
50.15   Delinquent accounts
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter in wastewater under a standard
laboratory procedure for five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   CAPITAL CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge that is
levied for capital costs, investment in plant facilities, depreciation and
other costs, but excluding operation and maintenance costs.
   CITY. The City of Martindale.
   COMMERCIAL USE. Any use that does not qualify as a residential use.
   NORMAL WASTEWATER. Wastewater that when analyzed shows a daily average
concentration of not more than 300 mg/l of BOD and 300 mg/l of SS, and is
otherwise acceptable for routine collection and treatment in the wastewater
system.
   RESIDENTIAL USE. Any use of premises that is limited solely to residential
living facilities and purposes.
   SURCHARGE. A charge added to the normal user charge when the BOD, SS or
other pollutant concentration from a user exceeds the range of concentration of
these pollutants in normal domestic wastewater.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, wastewater or other liquids and that are removable by filtering.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge that is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation and
maintenance of the wastewater system.
   WASTEWATER SYSTEM. The facilities used to transport wastewater from
individual homes or buildings to a wastewater treatment plant, together with
the wastewater treatment plant. The objective of the treatment plant is to
remove pollutants and to dispose, recycle or reuse the treated wastewater and
residues that result from the treatment process.
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010)
§ 50.02 PRECEDENCE OF CHAPTER OVER CONTRACTS.
   This chapter will take precedence over any terms or conditions of agreements
or contracts between the city and users of the wastewater system, including
commercial and industrial users, special districts and governmental entities,
which are inconsistent with this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010)
§ 50.03 RATES APPLY TO ALL USERS.
   The rates and charges contained in this chapter will apply to all users of
the wastewater system, including persons, firms, corporations and governmental
entities.
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010)
§ 50.04 CLASSIFICATION OF USERS.
   Users of the wastewater system will be classified as residential use or
commercial use.
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010)
§ 50.05 RATES SET BY CITY COUNCIL.
   Rates and charges for all users of the wastewater system will be as
established by this chapter, or by subsequent ordinance or resolution passed by
the City Council.
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010)
§ 50.06 SURCHARGES FOR INDUSTRIAL WASTE AND SIMILAR WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Every user who discharges wastewater, industrial wastes or other
liquids other than normal wastewater to the wastewater system will be charged
and pay a surcharge (in addition to the charge for normal wastewater) in the
amount set by this chapter, or by subsequent ordinance or resolution of the
City Council.
   (B)   In addition to the charge for normal wastewater and the surcharges
described in division (A) above, a user that discharges wastewater, industrial
wastes, other liquids that cause an increase in operation or maintenance costs
for the wastewater system shall pay for the increased costs.
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010)
§ 50.07 TAP FEE AND CAPITAL RECOVERY FEE.
   (A)   Each new user of the wastewater system is required to pay a tap fee
for initial connection, unless the cost of a connection is covered by grant
funds obtained by the city.
   (B)   In addition to the tap fee, each new user of the wastewater system is
required to pay a capital recovery fee for initial connection, unless the cost
of a connection is covered by grant funds obtained by the city.
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010)
§ 50.08 BASIS FOR RATE STRUCTURE.
   The City Council will review the rate structure for users of the wastewater
system annually to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Ensure that the rates are adequate to cover operation and maintenance
costs; and
   (B)   Ensure that operation and maintenance costs are being distributed
proportionally among users and classes.
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010)
§ 50.09 BILLS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Bills for use of the wastewater system shall be rendered monthly to
the owner or the occupant of the premises, or to an agent designated in writing
to the city by the owner. The ownership records maintained by the County
Appraisal District are prima facie evidence of the owner of premises.
   (B)   The rates and charges shall be due and payable in the office of the
city on or before the fifteenth day of each month.
      (1)   In the event that the rates and charges are not paid in full by the
due date, a late payment fee of $10 for residential uses or $25 for commercial
uses will be added to the charges due.
      (2)   In addition to the late penalty fee, the owner, the occupant and
(if designated) the agent of premises that continues to discharge wastewater to
the wastewater system without having paid the full amount due by the due date
may be prosecuted under §
50.99 below.
   (C)   In the event all rates and charges due are not paid on or before the
due date as stated above, the city will have the authority to disconnect or
terminate or cause to be disconnected or terminated all utility services
furnished to the premises.
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010; Ord. 2011-07-01, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 2013-10-
22, passed 10-22-2013)
§ 50.10 SUFFICIENCY OF RATES.
   Rates and charges shall never be reduced below an amount sufficient to
provide for the operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment system
and to provide for any increase in operation and maintenance, for improvements
and expansion, and for the payment of the principal and interest on any
existing or future bonds.
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010)
§ 50.11 FREE SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   None of the facilities or services afforded by the wastewater system
shall be furnished to a user without charge or compensation.
   (B)   A person who voluntarily offers to provide community services to the
city may, under guidelines approved by the City Administrator, be allowed a
credit against amounts owed based on services rendered to the city.
   (C)   If a city facility discharges wastewater to the wastewater system, the
appropriate rates and charges will be charged against the city, and paid for as
the charges accrue. The revenues received from the city will be deemed to be
wastewater system revenues and will be used and accounted for in the same
manner as other wastewater system revenues.
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010)
§ 50.12 DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Deposit required. Each applicant for service with the city wastewater
system will be required to make a cash deposit with the city to establish
credit before service will be instituted.
   (B)   Amount of deposit. The amount of the deposit for wastewater service is
set at four times the monthly rate based on the type of customer (residential
or commercial).
   (C)   Use of deposit.
      (1)   The city will use a customer's wastewater service deposit to
satisfy delinquent amounts in the customer's account.
      (2)   The city's use of a wastewater service deposit to satisfy a
customer's delinquent account will not preclude the city from taking any other
action to collect the account or enforce ordinance requirements.
   (D)   Refund. The excess of a customer's deposit over any unpaid wastewater
bill will be refunded within 60 days of termination of service.
   (E)   Deposit records. The city will keep records of each customer deposit
that includes the name and address of the customer, the amount of the deposit
and the date the deposit was made.
   (F)   Deposit receipts. The city will issue a receipt of deposit to each
customer from which a deposit is received, and will provide means for a
customer to establish a claim if the receipt is lost. A record of each
unclaimed deposit will be maintained by the city for a period of four years.
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010)
§ 50.13 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates and charges for use of the city wastewater system are as set forth
below. The monthly amount of wastewater discharged by a user shall be
determined each year by averaging the water use at the service address over the
most recent three-month period of December, January and February.
Wastewater System Schedule of Rates and Charges
 
Monthly Rates
User Type   Monthly Rate
Residential First 2,000 gallons - $28 minimum bill
            Over 2,000 gallons - $3.50 per 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof
Commercial  First 2,000 gallons - $45 minimum bill
            Over 2,000 gallons - $3.50 per 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof
 
 
Surcharge for Wastewater other than Normal Wastewater (Excess BOD or SS)
S =   4.16 x 10 (V)(BOD-300)+ 2.83 x 10 (V)(SS-300), where
S =   Surcharge in dollars monthly
V =   Wastewater volume in thousand gallons per month
BOD = BOD concentration in mg/l of wastewater being treated
SS =  SS concentration in mg/l of waste being treated
300 = Allowed concentration of BOD and SS in mg/l in normal wastewater
 
 
Other Rates and Charges
Description                 Amount
Tap fee for new connections Actual cost of installation, plus 10%, or $750,
                            whichever is greater
Capital recovery fee        [Reserved]
 
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010; Ord. 2014-23-09-02, passed 9-23-2014; Ord.
2023-09-21-01, passed 9- 21-2023)
§ 50.14 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW USES.
   (A)   Required connection to the city wastewater system.
      (1)   Definition of NEW USE. In this section and §
50.99, below, a NEW USE includes:
         (a)   Any new building within the city that includes plumbing for the
disposal of wastewater for which a building permit is issued on or after
October 1, 2011; and
         (b)   Any existing building in the city as of October 1, 2011 that
includes plumbing for the disposal of wastewater, and is reconstructed or
remodeled to such an extent that the cost of construction is 50% or more of the
value of the building prior to the reconstruction or remodeling.
      (2)   Connection required for new uses. Each new use withing the city
that is on a tract of land that, at its closest point, is 300 feet or less from
an existing city wastewater line will be required to connect to the wastewater
line. The City Council may grant a variance from this requirement in unusual
circumstances, such as the distance of the use from that property line,
topography which prevents gravity flow between the property line and the city
wastewater line, or capacity limitations in the wastewater line.
   (B)   Restrictions on wastewater disposal. Regardless of the proximity of a
use in the city to a city wastewater line, it is unlawful for an owner or
occupant of property in the city to dispose of wastewater generated on the
property into a bore-hole, surface pool, or subsurface pool, container or
geological feature that is not an authorized on-site wastewater system under
state law and regulations of the county in which the property is located.
   (C)   Graywater use allowed. This section does not apply to the use of
graywater and the operation of a graywater system in accordance with applicable
stat statutes and regulations.
(Ord. 2011-09-02, passed 9-20-2011)
§ 50.15 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The City Secretary, City Administrator, or other person
responsible for managing the administrative affairs of the city.
      CUSTOMER. The person listed on the city's utility accounts as the holder
of an account.
      DELINQUENT BILL. A bill for solid waste services or wastewater services
that is not paid in full by the due date stated on the bill.
      UTILITY SERVICES. Includes both solid waste services and wastewater
services.
   (B)   Charges against deposit; notices. For a bill that remains delinquent
after the due date, the Administrator will charge the amount due against any
utility deposit held by the city. If there is no deposit, or if the deposit is
not sufficient to satisfy the total amount due, the administrator will send a
notice to the customer as soon as possible after the due date. The notice will
state the amount due, including penalty, and after credit for any deposit, will
provide notice of the following:
      (1)   The customer's opportunity to submit a notice of dispute related to
the amount of a bill no later than the thirtieth date after the due date for a
bill;
      (2)   The customer's option (if eligible) of executing a deferred payment
plan for the balance due on the account;
      (3)   Charging the amount due against any deposit held by the city;
      (4)   The date of termination of city utility services if payment is not
made or arranged, and, if terminated, the need to pay a new deposit, reconnect
fees, and a city administrative fee before services are restored;
      (5)   Possible prosecution for maintaining a nuisance related to
discontinuation of utility service;
      (6)   For delinquent bills for wastewater services, possible
disconnection of water service provided by Martindale Water Supply Corporation,
and if disconnected, the charging of disconnect, reconnect and administrative
fees before water service is restored; and
      (7)   Possible recording of a lien against the property associated with
the account in the amount of delinquency.
   (C)   Termination of utility services; disconnection of water services.
      (1)   If a bill remains delinquent for 15 days after the due date, and
the Administrator has sent a notice to the customer under division (B) above,
the Administrator will terminate city utility services to the customer. If
delinquent bill includes wastewater fees, the Administrator will add the
account to the payment delinquency list for the current month to be submitted
to Martindale Water Supply Corporation for termination of water service to the
customer.
      (2)   After city utility services are terminated for a customer, the
administrator may initiate prosecution of the customer for maintaining a
nuisance if warranted by the circumstances.
      (3)   After city utility services are terminated for a location, the
Administrator may deny an application to initiate utility services at the
location in the name of a different customer if the Administrator has reason to
believe that application is an attempt to avoid responsibility for payment of
on the account.
   (D)   Fees. The Administrator will assess the following fees on delinquent
accounts as appropriate:
      (1)   Late fee: 10% of the total amount due for utility services for the
most recent month (i.e, does not apply to arrearages or preceding months.)
      (2)   Deferred payment plan fee: $25.
      (3)   Termination/restoration fee (city administrative fee for
terminating and restoring utility services): $25.
      (4)   Disconnect/reconnect and administrative fee (for the disconnection/
reconnection of water service by Martindale Water Supply Corporation): The
amount charged to the city by Martindale Water Supply Corporation. At present
the amount is $57.50 if reconnect is between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday, excluding holidays; and $82.50 if reconnect is at any other
time.
   (E)   Deferred payment plan eligibility. The Administrator may enter into
not more than one deferred payment plan per account per calendar year. The
customer must submit an application demonstrating an extreme hardship to the
eligible for a deferred payment plan. It is the intent of the City Council that
extreme hardship will be recognized only in the most unusual circumstances. The
Administrator has sole discretion to approve or deny an application, based on
the following factors:
      (1)   The extent to which the circumstance leading to the delinquency was
caused by factors beyond the control of the customer;
      (2)   The financial resources available to the customer; and
      (3)   The likelihood that the customer will be able to perform under the
deferred payment plan in a timely manner.
   (F)   Deferred payment plans. If the Administrator approves a customer's
application for a deferred payment plan, the customer will be required to
execute a written agreement that:
      (1)   Requires the customer to pay for all future services before the
account becomes delinquent;
      (2)   Provides up to, but no more than, six months to pay all delinquent
amounts in equal or as nearly equal as practicable monthly installments;
      (3)   Includes payment of a deferred payment fee at the time the plan is
approved;
      (4)   Provides that in the even of any default of the deferred payment
plan, utility services and, for delinquent wastewater bills, water service
provided by Martindale Water Supply Corporation, will be terminated/
disconnected without further notice;
   (G)   Disputed bills. A customer may informally discuss the amount of a bill
with the city representatives during the city's normal business hours. A
customer may formally dispute the amount of a bill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The customer must submit to the Administrator a completed notice of
dispute within 30 days after the due date for a bill. The amount of a bill will
be presumed to be correct if no notice of dispute is submitted within that
time, unless the customer demonstrates to the Administrator that the delay was
caused by factors outside the customer's control.
      (2)   After a receipt of a completed notice of dispute form, the
Administrator will schedule a meeting with the customer.
      (3)   Prior to the meeting with the Administrator, a customer may request
reasonable access to the records of the city related to the customer's account.
The customer may secure copies of records after paying normal copying charges.
      (4)   At the meeting with the Administrator, a customer may be assisted
by a representative, may present documentary evidence, and may present verbal
information to the Administrator about the amount of a bill.
      (5)   The Administrator will make a written decision on the amount of a
bill within ten days of the meeting, and the Administrator will provide a copy
of the decision to the customer.
   (H)   Forms. The Administrator may develop forms and adopt procedures that
are consistent with the purposes stated in this policy.
   (I)   Liens. In accordance with Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, § 552.0025, the
Administrator may record notice of a lien against a tract of property to which
utility services were provided, to secure payment for amounts owed for the
utility services. This lien does not attach to property that is a homestead
protected by the Texas Constitution, nor does it secure the payment of any
utility bills that were incurred by a tenant of the property prior to September
1, 2011. The lien will be inferior to any lien is recorded prior to the date
the city's lien is recorded, but the city's lien will be superior to all other
liens, including previously recorded judgement liens, and all liens recorded
after the city's lien is recorded. The notice will be recorded in the real
property records of Caldwell County, Texas, and will included the following:
      (1)   The name of the owner of the property;
      (2)   The name of the customer who received the utility services, if
different than the owner;
      (3)   The legal description of the property;
      (4)    The types and amounts of charges for which payment is delinquent;
and
      (5)   The address of the city office at which the delinquent charges may
be paid.
(Ord. 2011-08-02, passed - -)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to discharge wastewater in violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to continue to discharge wastewater to the
wastewater system if the person has failed or refused to pay the full amount of
charges owed by the due date for payment of the charges under §
50.09(B) above.
   (C)   In addition to proceeding under authority of division (A) or (B)
above, the city is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies to
which it is entitled under authority of statutes or other ordinances against a
person who commits a violation of this chapter. Prosecution for violation of a
provision of this chapter is not a prerequisite or bar to any other remedy or
relief for the violation under state law or this chapter.
   (D)   A person who violates any provision of this chapter related to public
health and sanitation shall be punished, upon conviction, by a fine not to
exceed $2,000.
   (E)   A person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
punished, upon conviction thereof, by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (F)   Notwithstanding divisions (D) or (E) above, no penalty for a violation
shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same or similar
offense under the laws of the state.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day on or during which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (H)   Prosecution for violation of a provision of §
50.14 is not a prerequisite or bar to any other remedy or relief for the
violation under state law or §
50.14.
   (I)   Prosecution for violation of a provision of §
50.15 is not a prerequisite or bar to any other remedy or relief for the
violation under state law or §
50.15.
(Ord. 2010-398, passed - -2010; Ord. 2011-07-01, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 2011-08-
02, passed - -; Ord. 2011-09-02, passed 9-20-2011)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE; RECYCLING
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   City provision of services
   
51.03   Service charges
   
51.04   Required provision of services; prohibition of nuisances
   
51.05   Residential unit bag requirements
   
51.06   Placement of carts and bags for collection
   
51.07   Placing solid waste outside buildings
   
51.08   Commercial container requirements
   
51.09   Delinquent accounts
 
   
51.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Solid waste rates
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULKY WASTE. Includes appliances, furniture and other large waste materials,
other than construction debris, dead animals, hazardous waste or stable matter.
   COMMERCIAL CUSTOMER. The owner or occupant of a premise or facility at which
commercial solid waste is generated.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. All solid waste generated at a location or facility
other than a residential unit.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair or demolition of buildings.
   CONTRACTOR. The company under contract with the city for the collection and
disposal of solid waste and recyclables.
   GARBAGE. Decayable solid waste, including dead animals, animal and vegetable
waste, food containers and all other waste matter which is likely to attract
flies or vermin, except any matter included in the definitions of bulky waste,
construction debris, dead animal, hazardous waste, rubbish or stable matter.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste material that is dangerous or potentially harmful
to human health or the environment. HAZARDOUS WASTES arc more specifically
classified under federal law.
   RECYCLABLES. Garbage or rubbish that has useful physical or chemical
properties after serving its original purpose and can be reused or re-
manufactured into other products.
   RECYCLABLES CART. A wheeled plastic cart furnished by the contractor to each
residential unit for use in the collection of recyclables.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. The owner or occupant of a residential unit at which
residential solid waste is generated.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated at a residential unit.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. 
      (1)   A room or set of rooms suitable for residential use by a single
family, including (but not limited to) a single-family dwelling, townhouse,
apartment, condominium, or any such property or portion thereof used for short
term rental.
      (2)   Property that contains a multi-family building or complex (i.e.
townhouse, fourplex, duplex, condominium, or short term rental unit) that has
four or less dwelling units may be treated as a single RESIDENTIAL UNIT for
solid waste services. This means up to four separate dwelling units may be
consolidated and considered a single customer.
      (3)   Those RESIDENTIAL UNITS served by a dumpster will not be included
in this definition.
   RUBBISH. Non-decayable solid waste, including wood, wood products, grass
cuttings, plants, leaves, paper, cardboard, cloth, leather, fool wear, ashes,
cinders, floor sweepings, glass, mineral or metallic materials, and all other
waste materials other than bulky waste, construction debris, garbage, stable
matter, tree trimmings or yard waste.
   SOLID WASTE. Non-hazardous garbage, rubbish, bulky waste, construction
debris, stable matter, tree trimmings and yard waste.
   SOLID WASTE CART. A plastic container with attached lid and wheels for the
storage and collection of solid waste.
   STABLE MATTER. All manure and other waste matter normally accumulated in or
about a stable, or any animal, livestock or poultry enclosure, and resulting
from the keeping of animals, poultry or livestock.
   YARD WASTE. Tree limbs, grass and plant clippings and tree or brush
trimmings.
(Ord. 09-381, passed 12-14-2009; Ord. 2020-02-04-01, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 51.02 CITY PROVISION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   The city will provide solid waste collection and disposal services
through the contractor to all residential units and all commercial customers in
the city. These services will be provided solely through the contractor. If a
solid waste collection container is placed within the city by any firm other
than the contractor, the container will be subject to removal and storage at
the expense of the other firm.
   (B)   The city will provide recyclables collection and disposal services
through the contractor to all residential units in the city. These services
will be provided solely by the contractor. If a recyclables collection
container is placed within the city by any firm other than the contractor, the
container will be subject to removal and storage at the expense of the other
firm.
   (C)   Deposit requirements.
      (1)   Deposit required. Each applicant for solid waste service with the
city will be required to make a cash deposit with the city to establish credit
before service will be instituted.
      (2)   Amount of deposit. The amount of the deposit for solid waste
service is set at four times the monthly rate based on the type of customer
(residential or commercial).
      (3)   Use of deposit.
         (a)   The city will use a customer's solid waste service deposit to
satisfy delinquent amounts in the customer's account, if any.
         (b)   The city's use of a wastewater service deposit to satisfy a
customer's delinquent account will not preclude the city from taking any other
action to collect amounts owed or enforce ordinance requirements.
      (4)   Refund. The excess, if any, of a customer's deposit will be
refunded within 60 days of termination of service.
      (5)   Deposit records. The city will keep records of each customer
deposit that includes the name and address of the customer, the amount of the
deposit and the date the deposit was made, and remaining balance of unused
deposits.
      (6)   Deposit receipts. The city will issue a receipt of unused deposits
to each customer from which a deposit is received. A record of each unclaimed
deposit will be maintained by the city for a period of four years.
   (D)   Deposits eligible for credit toward bills.
      (1)   Deposits will be eligible to be credited to a customer's bill when
the customer has completed 24 consecutive months of on-time payments.
      (2)   Customers who have completed 24 consecutive months of on-time
payments may submit a "Deposit Credit Form" (see attachment B to Ord. 2020-02-
04-01) to request that deposits still held by the city for their account be
credited to that account.
      (3)    Upon receipt of the request the city shall evaluate the request
and, if found to be accurate, credit the account with the remaining amount on
deposit. Notification of completion of this action will be via a credit showing
on the customer's monthly invoice.
(Ord. 09-381, passed 12-14-2009; Ord. 2020-02-04-01, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 51.03 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The charges for solid waste and recyclable collection and disposal
services are established as described in Appendix A at the end of this chapter.
The charges will be adjusted on the effective dates shown as shown to account
for rate changes in the city's contract with the contractor.
   (B)   The following are the different types of services offered:
      (1)   Residential collection and disposal of solid waste, one time per
week with 96-gallon cart, and collection and processing of recyclables onetime
every other week, with 35-gallon or with 96-gallon cart.
      (2)   Residential extra 96-gallon solid waste cart.
      (3)   Commercial customers - one time per week service.
      (4)   Roll-off service.
   (C)   The contractor will bill customers directly for roll-off service. The
contractor will bill and remit to the city a franchise fee for use of city
streets, alleys and rights-of-way of 3% of the amount billed by the contractor
for roll-off service.
   (D)   Bills for use of the solid waste services shall be rendered monthly to
the owner or the occupant of the premises, or to an agent designated in writing
to the city by the owner. The ownership records maintained by the County
Appraisal District are prima facie evidence of the owner of premises.
Designation of an agent will be via a "Tenant Permission Form" (see attachment
C to Ord. 2020-02-04-01). The form must be signed and notarized to be valid.
   (E)   The city will bill and retain a franchise fee for use of city streets,
alleys and rights-of-way of 3% of the service charge for services to
residential and commercial customers.
   (F)   A fee of $12 for billing and administrative services of the city will
be added to the monthly rate for commercial customers for one time per week
service. A fee of $10 billing and administrative service will be added to the
monthly rate of residential customers. The fees show in the table include the
administrative fee.
   (G)   All services will be subject to applicable sales and use taxes.
(Ord. 09-381, passed 12-14-2009; Ord. 2011-07-01, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 2013-
10-22, passed 10-22-2013; Ord. 2014-23-09-03, passed 9-23-2014; Ord. 2016-04-
05-01, passed 4-5-2016; Ord. 2018-02-06, passed 2-6-2018; Ord. 2019-05-21,
passed 5-21-2019; Ord. 2020-02-04-01, passed 2-4-2020; Ord. 2023-09-21-01,
passed 9-21-2023)
§ 51.04 REQUIRED PROVISION OF SERVICES; PROHIBITION OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   The owner and the occupant of premises are each responsible for
compliance with this section. The utility billing records of the city or
another utility provider are prima facie evidence of the identity of the
occupant of premises. The ownership records maintained by the County Appraisal
District are prima facie evidence of the owner of premises.
   (B)   All solid waste and recyclables generated on the premises of
residential units, and all solid waste generated on the premises of a
commercial customer, must be appropriately placed for collection and disposal
services provided by the city through the contractor.
   (C)   Failure to appropriately place solid waste and (if applicable)
recyclables for collection and disposal by the contractor on a service day will
be deemed to be creating and maintaining a nuisance on the premises.
   (D)   Failure to timely pay applicable charges for solid waste and (if
applicable) recyclables collection and disposal services will result in
termination of those services. Upon termination of those services, a nuisance
will be deemed to be created and maintained on the premises.
   (E)   It is unlawful for an occupant of a residential unit, or a commercial
customer, to create or maintain a nuisance.
(Ord. 09-381, passed 12-14-2009; Ord. 2011-07-01, passed 7-5-2011) Penalty, see
§
51.99
§ 51.05 RESIDENTIAL UNIT BAG REQUIREMENTS.
   If an occupant of a residential unit uses bags for solid waste collection
(in addition to the solid waste cart provided by the contractor), the bags must
have sufficient wall strength to maintain physical integrity when lifted by the
top, and must be securely closed to prevent access into the bags by flies and
vermin.
(Ord. 09-381, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 51.06 PLACEMENT OF CARTS AND BAGS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   The owner and the occupant of premises are each responsible for
compliance with this section. The utility billing records of the city or
another utility provider are prima facie evidence of the identity of the
occupant of premises. The ownership records maintained by the County Appraisal
District are prima facie evidence of the owner of premises.
   (B)   All solid waste must be placed for collection only in solid waste
carts provided by the contractor and 30 gallon bags provided by customers. All
recyclables must be placed for collection only in recyclables carts provided by
the contractor.
   (C)   Solid waste carts and bags and recyclables carts must be placed for
collection between noon the day preceding collection day and 7:00 a.m. of
collection day, and they must be placed as close to the roadway as practicable
without interfering with vehicles or pedestrians.
   (D)   Bulky waste, construction debris, stable matter, and yard waste from
residential units which does not fit within solid waste carts or 30-gallon bags
must be disposed of in a lawful manner by the person who generated the waste.
   (E)   Emptied solid waste carts and recyclables carts must be removed to a
location at the side or rear of a building on the premises by midnight of
collection day.
   (F)   Only recyclables approved by the City Administrator may be placed in
recyclables carts.
(Ord. 09-381, passed 12-14-2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 PLACING SOLID WASTE OUTSIDE BUILDINGS.
   It is unlawful for an owner or occupant of premises to:
   (A)   Cause or permit any solid waste generated on the premises to be placed
or to remain outside of a building on the premises unless it is inside a solid
waste cart, a securely closed bag or other secure container;
   (B)   Cause or permit any solid waste to be placed or to remain outside of a
building on the premises in a manner that is likely to:
      (1)   Create a harborage or breeding place for mosquitoes, flies or
vermin; or
      (2)   Allow the waste to be scattered or carried away by the elements.
   (C)   Cause or permit a dead animal to be placed or to remain outside of a
building on the premises unless it is contained in a bag or unless the owner or
occupant has made arrangements to have the animal removed from the premises
within 24 hours;
   (D)   Cause or permit hazardous, infectious or toxic waste to remain outside
of a building on the premises unless it is properly contained and arrangements
have been made for lawful collection and disposal of the waste at the expense
of the owner or occupant; or
   (E)   Cause or permit any solid waste to be burned on the premises.
(Ord. 09-381, passed 12-14-2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 COMMERCIAL CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each commercial customer (both the owner and the occupant of the
premises) are responsible for compliance with this section. The utility billing
records of the city or another utility provider are prima facie evidence of the
identity of the occupant of premises. The ownership records maintained by the
County Appraisal District are prima facie evidence of the owner of premises.
   (B)   All commercial solid waste containers shall be stored and placed for
collection entirely off streets, alleys or other public property.
   (C)   All accumulations of garbage and rubbish on a premises shall be
collected on a daily basis and placed securely in bags, containers or bins.
   (D)   All bins shall be kept in good repair, with properly working, tight-
fitting lids and plugs, and shall be kept reasonably clean at all limes.
(Ord. 09-381, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 51.09 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The City Secretary, City Administrator, or other person
responsible for managing the administrative affairs of the city.
      CUSTOMER. The person listed on the city's utility accounts as the holder
of an account.
      DELINQUENT BILL. A bill for solid waste services or wastewater services
that is not paid in full by the due date stated on the bill.
      UTILITY SERVICES. Includes both solid waste services and wastewater
services.
   (B)   Charges against deposit; notices. For a bill that remains delinquent
after the due date, the Administrator will charge the amount due against any
utility deposit held by the city. If there is no deposit, or if the deposit is
not sufficient to satisfy the total amount due, the administrator will send a
notice to the customer as soon as possible after the due date. The notice will
state the amount due, including penalty, and after credit for any deposit, will
provide notice of the following:
      (1)   The customer's opportunity to submit a notice of dispute related to
the amount of a bill no later than the thirtieth date after the due date for a
bill;
      (2)   The customer's option (if eligible) of executing a deferred payment
plan for the balance due on the account;
      (3)   Charging the amount due against any deposit held by the city;
      (4)   The date of termination of city utility services if payment is not
made or arranged, and, if terminated, the need to pay a new deposit, reconnect
fees, and a city administrative fee before services are restored;
      (5)   Possible prosecution for maintaining a nuisance related to
discontinuation of utility service;
      (6)   For delinquent bills for wastewater services, possible
disconnection of water service provided by Martindale Water Supply Corporation,
and if disconnected, the charging of disconnect, reconnect and administrative
fees before water service is restored; and
      (7)   Possible recording of a lien against the property associated with
the account in the amount of delinquency.
   (C)   Termination of utility services; disconnection of water services.
      (1)   If a bill remains delinquent for 15 days after the due date, and
the Administrator has sent a notice to the customer under division (B) above,
the Administrator will terminate city utility services to the customer. If
delinquent bill includes wastewater fees, the Administrator will add the
account to the payment delinquency list for the current month to be submitted
to Martindale Water Supply Corporation for termination of water service to the
customer.
      (2)   After city utility services are terminated for a customer, the
administrator may initiate prosecution of the customer for maintaining a
nuisance if warranted by the circumstances.
      (3)   After city utility services are terminated for a location, the
Administrator may deny an application to initiate utility services at the
location in the name of a different customer if the Administrator has reason to
believe that application is an attempt to avoid responsibility for payment of
on the account.
   (D)   Fees. The Administrator will assess the following fees on delinquent
accounts as appropriate:
      (1)   Late fee: 10% of the total amount due for utility services for the
most recent month (i.e, does not apply to arrearages or preceding months.)
      (2)   Deferred payment plan fee: $25.
      (3)   Termination/restoration fee (city administrative fee for
terminating and restoring utility services): $25.
      (4)   Disconnect/reconnect and administrative fee (for the disconnection/
reconnection of water service by Martindale Water Supply Corporation): The
amount charged to the city by Martindale Water Supply Corporation. At present
the amount is $57.50 if reconnect is between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday, excluding holidays; and $82.50 if reconnect is at any other
time.
   (E)   Deferred payment plan eligibility. The Administrator may enter into
not more than one deferred payment plan per account per calendar year. The
customer must submit an application demonstrating an extreme hardship to the
eligible for a deferred payment plan. It is the intent of the City Council that
extreme hardship will be recognized only in the most unusual circumstances. The
Administrator has sole discretion to approve or deny an application, based on
the following factors:
      (1)   The extent to which the circumstance leading to the delinquency was
caused by factors beyond the control of the customer;
      (2)   The financial resources available to the customer; and
      (3)   The likelihood that the customer will be able to perform under the
deferred payment plan in a timely manner.
   (F)   Deferred payment plans. If the Administrator approves a customer's
application for a deferred payment plan, the customer will be required to
execute a written agreement that:
      (1)   Requires the customer to pay for all future services before the
account becomes delinquent;
      (2)   Provides up to, but no more than, six months to pay all delinquent
amounts in equal or as nearly equal as practicable monthly installments;
      (3)   Includes payment of a deferred payment fee at the time the plan is
approved;
      (4)   Provides that in the even of any default of the deferred payment
plan, utility services and, for delinquent wastewater bills, water service
provided by Martindale Water Supply Corporation, will be terminated/
disconnected without further notice;
   (G)   Disputed bills. A customer may informally discuss the amount of a bill
with the city representatives during the city's normal business hours. A
customer may formally dispute the amount of a bill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The customer must submit to the Administrator a completed notice of
dispute within 30 days after the due date for a bill. The amount of a bill will
be presumed to be correct if no notice of dispute is submitted within that
time, unless the customer demonstrates to the Administrator that the delay was
caused by factors outside the customer's control.
      (2)   After a receipt of a completed notice of dispute form, the
Administrator will schedule a meeting with the customer.
      (3)   Prior to the meeting with the Administrator, a customer may request
reasonable access to the records of the city related to the customer's account.
The customer may secure copies of records after paying normal copying charges.
      (4)   At the meeting with the Administrator, a customer may be assisted
by a representative, may present documentary evidence, and may present verbal
information to the Administrator about the amount of a bill.
      (5)   The Administrator will make a written decision on the amount of a
bill within ten days of the meeting, and the Administrator will provide a copy
of the decision to the customer.
   (H)   Forms. The Administrator may develop forms and adopt procedures that
are consistent with the purposes stated in this policy.
   (I)   Liens. In accordance with Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, § 552.0025, the
Administrator may record notice of a lien against a tract of property to which
utility services were provided, to secure payment for amounts owed for the
utility services. This lien does not attach to property that is a homestead
protected by the Texas Constitution, nor does it secure the payment of any
utility bills that were incurred by a tenant of the property prior to September
1, 2011. The lien will be inferior to any lien is recorded prior to the date
the city's lien is recorded, but the city's lien will be superior to all other
liens, including previously recorded judgement liens, and all liens recorded
after the city's lien is recorded. The notice will be recorded in the real
property records of Caldwell County, Texas, and will included the following:
      (1)   The name of the owner of the property;
      (2)   The name of the customer who received the utility services, if
different than the owner;
      (3)   The legal description of the property;
      (4)    The types and amounts of charges for which payment is delinquent;
and
      (5)   The address of the city office at which the delinquent charges may
be paid.
(Ord. 2011-08-02, passed - -)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates any provision of this chapter related to public
health and sanitation, including dumping of refuse, shall be punished, upon
conviction, by a fine not to exceed $2,000.
   (B)   A person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
punished, upon conviction thereof, by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) or (B) above, no penalty for a violation
shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same or similar
offense under the laws of the state.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day on or during which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (E)   Prosecution for violation of a provision of this chapter is not a
prerequisite or bar to any other remedy or relief for the violation under state
law or this chapter.
(Ord. 09-381, passed 12-14-2009; Ord. 2011-07-01, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 2011-
08-02, passed - -)
Appendix A: Solid Waste Rates
             Effective Date
Type of Size 6/1/ 5/1/ 5/1/ 5/1/ 5/1/ 5/1/ 5/1/2025 5/1/2026 5/1/2027 5/1/2028
Service      2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
                     Effective Date
Type of     Size     6/1/    5/1/    5/1/    5/1/    5/1/    5/1/    5/1/    5/1/    5/1/    5/1/
Service              2019    2020    2021    2022    2023    2024    2025    2026    2027    2028
Residential 96 Gal   $30.78  $31.63  $32.52  $33.44  $34.39  $35.38  $36.41  $37.48  $38.58  $39.73
            Cart
Residential Extra 96 $18.84  $19.25  $19.67  $20.11  $20.56  $21.03  $21.52  $22.03  $22.55  $23.10
            Gal Cart
                                                                                   
Commercial  96 Gal   $52.00  $54.00  $55.00  $57.00  $59.00  $60.00  $62.00  $64.00  $66.00  $68.00
            Cart
            2 Cu.
Commercial  Yard     $105.00 $109.00 $112.00 $116.00 $120.00 $124.00 $128.00 $133.00 $138.00 $142.00
            Dumpster
            3 Cu.
Commercial  Yard     $119.00 $123.00 $127.00 $132.00 $136.00 $141.00 $146.00 $151.00 $156.00 $162.00
            Dumpster
            4 Cu.
Commercial  Yard     $132.00 $137.00 $141.00 $146.00 $151.00 $157.00 $162.00 $168.00 $174.00 $180.00
            Dumpster
            6 Cu.
Commercial  Yard     $166.00 $172.00 $178.00 $184.00 $191.00 $198.00 $205.00 $212.00 $219.00 $227.00
            Dumpster
            8 Cu.
Commercial  Yard     $193.00 $200.00 $207.00 $214.00 $222.00 $230.00 $238.00 $247.00 $256.00 $265.00
            Dumpster
Commercial  Lock     $20.33  $21.09  $21.88  $22.70  $23.56  $24.44  $25.36  $26.31  $27.29  $28.32
            Bars
Commercial  Casters  $20.33  $21.09  $21.88  $22.70  $23.56  $24.44  $25.36  $26.31  $27.29  $28.32
                                                                                   
Roll-off
Service 20  Rent/Day $5.42   $5.62   $5.83   $6.05   $6.28   $6.52   $6.76   $7.01   $7.28   $7.55
Cu. Yard
Roll-off
Service 20  Delivery $238.00 $247.00 $256.00 $266.00 $276.00 $286.00 $297.00 $308.00 $320.00 $331.00
Cu. Yard
Roll-off
Service 20  Haul     $509.00 $528.00 $548.00 $568.00 $590.00 $612.00 $635.00 $659.00 $683.00 $709.00
Cu. Yard
                                                                                   
Roll-off
Service 30  Rent/Day $5.42   $5.62   $5.83   $6.05   $6.28   $6.52   $6.76   $7.01   $7.28   $7.55
Cu. Yard
Roll-off
Service 30  Delivery $238.00 $247.00 $256.00 $266.00 $276.00 $286.00 $297.00 $308.00 $320.00 $331.00
Cu. Yard
Roll-off
Service 30  Haul     $542.00 $562.00 $583.00 $605.00 $628.00 $652.00 $676.00 $701.00 $728.00 $755.00
Cu. Yard
                                                                                   
Roll-off
Service 40  Rent/Day $5.42   $5.62   $5.83   $6.05   $6.28   $6.52   $6.76   $7.01   $7.28   $7.55
Cu. Yard
Roll-off
Service 40  Delivery $238.00 $247.00 $256.00 $266.00 $276.00 $286.00 $297.00 $308.00 $320.00 $331.00
Cu. Yard
Roll-off
Service 40  Haul     $576.00 $598.00 $620.00 $643.00 $667.00 $692.00 $718.00 $745.00 $773.00 $802.00
Cu. Yard
 
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
         
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
73.   SPEED LIMITS
         
74.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Through truck traffic
   
70.02   Commercial traffic on Quail Run Road
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   Truck traffic in excess of 10,000 pounds combined gross weight is prohibited
from the use of streets within the city limits, except for those streets that
are also state highways. The state highways designated for through truck
traffic are: Highway 80; Highway 142; and Farm Road 1979.
(Ord. 86-1111, passed 8-19-1986) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 COMMERCIAL TRAFFIC ON QUAIL RUN ROAD.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle used for transporting goods,
merchandise, or  property for commercial purposes, including but not limited to
trucks, vans, trailers, and buses.
      QUAIL RUN ROAD. The road segment between Texas State Highway 80 and
Northwest River  Road within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Prohibition of through traffic. All commercial vehicles are prohibited
from using Quail Run Road as a through route between Texas State Highway 80 and
Northwest River Road.
   (C)   Signs and notifications. City staff shall install appropriate signage
and notifications at the entrances and key intersections of Quail Run Road,
clearly indicating the prohibition of through traffic for commercial vehicles.
The signs shall be highly visible and conform to local and Texas traffic
regulations.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The prohibition outlined in division (B) above shall not apply to
commercial vehicles directly accessing properties located along Quail Run Road.
      (2)   Emergency vehicles, utility vehicles, and authorized service
vehicles shall be exempt from this section while performing official duties.
(Ord. 2023-07-06, passed 7-6-2023)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of §
70.01 will be punishable by a fine not to exceed $200 per offense.
   (B)   (1)   City law enforcement agencies are hereby authorized to enforce §
70.02, and any commercial vehicle found in violation may be subject to
penalties as determined by applicable laws and regulations.
      (2)   Penalties for violation of §
70.02 may include but are not limited to fines, impoundment of vehicle, and
other remedies available under local, state, and federal laws.
(Ord. 86-1111, passed 8-19-1986; Ord. 2023-07-06, passed 7-6-2023)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
71.01   Purpose and objectives
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Authority to install
   
71.04   Traffic-control device standards
   
71.05   Unauthorized signs, signals and the like
   
71.06   Administration, erection and maintenance
   
71.07   Compliance with directions
   
71.08   Temporary closing of streets for events
   
71.09   Closing of streets during emergencies
   
71.10   Disregard of signs and barricades
   
71.11   Ratification of existing devices
   
71.12   Civil enforcement
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide clear regulations for the
location, erection and maintenance of traffic-control devices deemed necessary
to regulate and control traffic flow within the city, and to guide or warn
traffic during a period of construction, fire, flood or other emergency in the
city.
(Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Fire Department or police vehicles, public and
private ambulances for which permits have been issued by the State Department
of Health Services, emergency vehicles of municipal departments or public
service corporations that are designated or authorized by the City Council,
private vehicles operated by firefighters or emergency medical services
employees or volunteers while answering a fire alarm or responding to a medical
emergency, and vehicles operated by blood banks or tissue banks, accredited or
approved under the laws of this state or the United States, while making
emergency deliveries of blood, drugs or medicines, or organs.
   BARRICADE. Every barrier, obstruction or device placed upon or across any
road, street or highway of this city by an authorized person for the purpose of
preventing the passage of motor vehicles over the street, road or highway
during a period of construction, fire, flood or other emergency.
   LULING STREET. The segment of FM 1979 extending from State Highway 80 to
Main Street.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority of the City
Council or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning
or guiding traffic.
   MAIN STREET. The segment of Caldwell County Road 103 extending from the
intersection of Caldwell County Road 103 and Lockhart Street to the
intersection of Caldwell County Road 103 and FM 1979.
   NW RIVER ROAD. The segment of County Road 103, extending from the
intersection of State Highway 80 to the intersection of County Road 103 and
Lockhart Street, at which point County Road 103 becomes Main Street.
   STOP. When required, to completely cease movement, and when prohibited, to
halt, including momentarily halting, an occupied or unoccupied vehicle, unless
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the directions
of a police officer or a traffic-control sign or signal.
   STOP SIGN. Defined in the State Transportation Code, and is a traffic sign
usually erected at road junctions, that instructs drivers to stop and then to
proceed only if the way ahead is clear.
(Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 71.03 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall recommend to the City Council the placement
of traffic-control signs, signals and devices when and as required under this
chapter and other traffic ordinances of this city to make effective the
provisions thereof and may recommend the placement of additional traffic-
control devices as he or she may deem necessary to regulate traffic under this
chapter and other ordinances of this city or under state law, or to guide or
warn traffic.
   (B)   The City Council has determined that traffic-control devices are
necessary at the locations shown in the traffic schedules adopted by reference
in §
72.01.
(Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 71.04 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE STANDARDS.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices installed or erected in the
city shall conform to the manual and specifications approved by the State
Department of Transportation. All signs and signals required under this chapter
shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the
city. All traffic-control devices so erected and consistent with the provisions
of state law or this chapter shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 71.05 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway, street or alley any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any
official control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways, streets or alleys of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official
signs.
   (C)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance, and the Chief of Police is hereby empowered to remove the same
or cause it to be moved without notice.
(Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 ADMINISTRATION, ERECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   A schedule of authorized traffic-control devices shall be continuously
maintained by the City Secretary. The traffic sign register shall contain a
record of every specific location in the city where any traffic-control device
or marking for special regulation is made applicable.
   (B)   The City Council finds that the conditions prerequisite to the
establishment of all special traffic regulations prescribed in this section and
the installation of all traffic-control devices, signs, signals and markings,
evidenced by the record thereof in the schedule of authorized traffic-control
devices. The regulations and devices shall continue in operation until amended
or deleted as provided by this chapter.
   (C)   Changes to traffic regulations and traffic-control devices approved by
the City Council will be noted in the schedule of authorized traffic-control
devices (§
72.01) by the City Secretary. A traffic regulation or traffic-control device
that is repealed or removed by the City Council will remain in the schedule of
authorized traffic-control devices, with a prominent notation of "deleted" and
the date of deletion.
   (D)   Whenever and wherever congestion of traffic, the frequency of
passenger vehicles or pedestrians or both, the direction and volume of the flow
of traffic, the dimensions and conditions of the street and sidewalk and the
use of property abutting the street are such that the traffic director finds it
to be necessary for the free flow and the expeditious handling of traffic and
the safety of persons and property within the city, the Chief of Police will
recommend the City Council in compliance with this chapter, to install traffic-
control devices, signs, signals or markings which:
      (1)   Designate or maintain crosswalks;
      (2)   Establish safety zones on any of the streets of the city;
      (3)   Mark lanes for traffic and parking stalls on the streets of the
city;
      (4)   Designate the locations at which the making of right turns, left
turns or U-turns or complete turns at any intersection of the street of the
city is prohibited;
      (5)   Designate the course of travel by vehicles turning at or near the
intersections;
      (6)   Regulate the flow of traffic;
      (7)   Establish rights-of-way, establish the traffic to yield rights-of-
way, or establish the traffic to stop;
      (8)   Designate routes, direction of traffic near public or private
schools, parks and public buildings; and
      (9)   Determine the location of passenger zones and loading zones.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the establishment of
speed limits or speed zones.
(Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 71.07 COMPLIANCE WITH DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with this
chapter and other traffic ordinances of this city, unless otherwise directed by
a police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
      (1)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation.
      (2)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits, so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property.
      (3)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
      (4)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of the vehicle is making use of audible and
visual signals meeting the requirements of applicable state law, except that an
authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped
with or display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
      (5)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall the provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 TEMPORARY CLOSING OF STREETS FOR EVENTS.
   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, is hereby authorized to close
any public street or portion thereof to vehicular traffic and/or parking for
any special event, which includes the use of the area being closed. A person or
entity requesting that a street or portion thereof shall make a written
application for the closure to the City Secretary no less than 35 days prior to
the date of the closure. As part of the application process, the applicant must
furnish liability insurance insuring the city for any property damage or
personal injury resulting from the event activities and/or the closing of the
public street. In no event shall the closure of a public street or portion
thereof exceed 72 consecutive hours. The Chief of Police's authority under this
section is discretionary.
(Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 71.09 CLOSING OF STREETS DURING EMERGENCIES.
   In case of a fire, the Fire Department, under the direction of the Chief of
the Fire Department, or any member of the Fire Department in charge of the
fire, or any fire police, shall have the authority to close any street, alley
or driveway approaching the fire, by rope, barricade, notice, sign or any other
means that will effectively indicate that the street, alley or thoroughfare is
for the time being closed. During time of flooding, the Chief of Police may
direct and install temporary road and street barricades indicating that the
thoroughfares are closed because of high water.
(Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 71.10 DISREGARD OF SIGNS AND BARRICADES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to disregard any sign or device placed
by the Police or Fire Departments, or other authorized person, indicating an
area is closed under authority of §§
71.08 and
71.09 above.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to move a barricade erected by a person
authorized to erect the barricade, or circumvent or drive a motor vehicle past
or around a barricade so erected.
   (C)   Any person violating this section is subject to the penalty set out in
§
71.99 below.
   (D)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section, if the person was
directed or specially permitted by police, fire, city or other government
personnel to disregard a sign, device or barricade indicating an area or road
is closed.
(Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, devices and markings placed or erected
prior to the adoption of this chapter and in use for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and declared to be
official traffic-control devices, provided the traffic-control devices are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, other city ordinances or
state law.
(Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 71.12 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   The city may direct the City Attorney to bring a civil action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this chapter. Additionally,
the city shall be entitled to recover its reasonable attorney's fees and
expenses for prosecuting any violation of this chapter to a successful
conclusion.
(Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person found guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500. Each
day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any city employee or agent, acting on authority granted by the City
Council is empowered to immediately remove any illegally placed or prohibited
sign without notice, and at the sole expense of the owner and/or real property
owner.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to seek all appropriate legal recourse
by way of injunctive or other appropriate relief in addition to any other
penalties and enforcement provided in this section.
(Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
72.01   Adoption by reference
§ 72.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The traffic schedules of the city are hereby adopted by reference, and
included as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983; Ord. 83-1006, passed 6-7-1983; Ord. passed 2-5-1985;
Ord. 1108, passed 8-6-1985; Ord. 86-1006A, passed 7-1-1986; Ord. 87-1116,
passed 9-14-1987; Ord. 08-349, passed 5-6-2008)
CHAPTER 73: SPEED LIMITS
Section
   
73.01   Speed limits
§ 73.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit on Main Street from its intersection at FM 1979 west
to Lockhart Street shall be 25 miles per hour.
   (B)   The speed limit on Northwest River Road from its intersection at
Lockhart Road west to the 400 block of Northwest River Road shall be 25 miles
per hour.
(Ord. 2017-16-05, passed 5-16-2017)
CHAPTER 74: GOLF CART
Section
   
74.01   Applicability
   
74.02   Definitions
   
74.03   Permitted and restricted
   
74.04   Additional operational regulations for all golf carts
   
74.05   Liability
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all golf carts operated
upon a public street or public golf cart path within the city except as set out
in division (B) herein.
   (B)   The operation of a golf cart is not subject to the provisions of this
chapter in the following circumstances:
      (1)   The operation of golf carts at golf courses, private clubs or on
private property, with the consent of the owner;
      (2)   The operation of golf carts within gated or limited access
communities; or
      (3)   The use or operation of a golf cart in connection with a parade, a
festival or other special event provided the consent of the sponsor is obtained
and provided such vehicle is only used during such event.
(Ord. 2022-08-18, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 74.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. The person driving and having the physical control over a golf cart.
   DRIVER LICENSE. An authorization by a state for the operation of a motor
vehicle. The term includes:
      (1)   A temporary license or instruction permit, must have someone at
least 18 years of age with a valid license accompanying person with instruction
permit; and
      (2)   An occupational license.
   GOLF CART. A motor vehicle designed by the manufacturer primarily for use on
a golf course.
   OWNER. The person holding title to the golf cart.
   PARKING AREA. Those areas accessible to the public by motor vehicle
vehicular traffic and which are designated for temporary parking of motor
vehicles, usually in places referred to as parking lots.
   PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL. Any employee or officer of a governmental law
enforcement agency or fire department or people serving as volunteers for the
governmental agency while performing volunteer duties.
   PUBLIC STREET. A publicly owned or dedicated road, street, alley, or other
right-of-way for the use of vehicles within the city’s corporate boundaries.
   PUBLIC WAY or PUBLIC PROPERTY. Real property owned, leased or controlled by
a political subdivision of the state, a governmental entity or agency, or a
similar entity, or any property that is publicly owned and maintained or
dedicated to public use, including but not limited to a path, trail, sidewalk,
alley, street or highway, and a public park facility.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street that is between a curb or lateral line of
a roadway and adjacent property line and intended for pedestrian use.
   SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM. A triangle emblem that conforms to standards and
specifications adopted by the director of the Texas Department of
Transportation pursuant to Tex. Transportation Code § 547.104 and or displayed
in compliance with the Tex. Transportation Code § 547.703.
   TEXAS TRANSPORTATION CODE. The code as it currently exists or may be
amended.
(Ord. 2022-08-18, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 74.03 PERMITTED AND RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person, other than public safety personnel or volunteers in an
official capacity for public safety, may operate a golf cart on a public street
and/or parking area unless the person complies with the following:
      (1)   The maximum speed limit on the public street on which a golf cart
is operated is 35 miles per hour or less;
      (2)   The person has been issued and possesses, on their person, a valid
driver’s license;
      (3)   The person maintains and possesses current financial responsibility
relating to operation of the golf cart as required for the operation of
passenger vehicles in accordance with Tex. Transportation Code § 601.051 or
other liability insurance relating to operation of a golf cart that provides
substantially the same coverage and with limits not less than those required by
Tex. Transportation Code § 601.051 while operating the golf cart;
      (4)   The person complies with all applicable federal, state, and local
laws and ordinances applicable to the operating and equipping of a golf cart
including displaying a license plate issued under Tex. Transportation Code §
551.402;
      (5)   The golf cart being operated by the person is equipped, in
accordance with § 551.4041 of the Tex. Transportation Code and each of the
following, which must continuously remain in good working and operational
order:
         (a)   Two headlamps;
         (b)   Two tail lamps;
         (c)   Turn signals visible from both the front and rear of the
vehicle;
         (d)   Side reflectors two front, amber in color and two rear, red in
color; parking brake;
         (e)   Rearview mirror(s), capable of a clear, unobstructed view of at
least 200 feet to the rear; and
         (f)   Slow-moving vehicle emblem located on the rear of the vehicle.
      (6)   The golf cart being operated otherwise complies with all applicable
state and federal motor vehicle safety standards, as they exist or may be
amended; and
      (7)   While the golf cart is in motion, the driver and every passenger
are seated. No person may stand or ride in the lap of the driver, and/or
another passenger of a golf cart while it is being operated on a public road.
(Ord. 2022-08-18, passed 8-18-2022) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 ADDITIONAL OPERATIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ALL GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Except for public safety personnel or as provided by other ordinances,
no person shall operate a golf cart on or within any public park, public
sidewalk, public pedestrian walkway, public jogging path, public park trail or
any other location on publicly owned or controlled property normally used for
pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   The driver shall move the golf cart to the right of the public street
and yield the right-of-way to faster moving vehicles.
   (C)   The driver shall not overtake and pass in the same lane occupied by
the vehicles being overtaken.
   (D)   No driver shall operate a golf cart between the lanes of traffic, or
between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
   (E)   A driver operating a golf cart on a public street shall cross a multi-
lane federal, county or state route only at an intersection controlled by an
official traffic-control device which stops traffic from all directions.
   (F)   No driver shall operate a golf cart if the number of occupants in the
golf cart, including the driver, exceeds the number of seats installed and
provided on the golf cart.
   (G)   Golf carts may not be used for the purpose of towing another golf
cart, trailer or vehicle of any kind including, without limitation, a person on
roller skates, skateboard or bicycle.
   (H)   Golf carts may only be parked in the same manner and at the same
places designated for the parking of motor vehicles. The stopping, standing or
parking of golf carts in areas where parking is not allowed or in any place
that impedes the flow of traffic, pedestrian walkways or a passageway is
prohibited. Golf carts shall not park within any space designated for disabled
persons unless a current disabled parking placard is displayed and the person
to whom the placard was issued is operating or being transported by said cart.
   (I)   Children must be properly seated while a cart is in motion and may not
be transported in a reckless or negligent manner. No person younger than six
years of age may be transported in a motorized cart unless retrained by a
safety belt restraint.
   (J)   Package delivery vehicles may be used in the city for the purpose of
picking up or delivering mail, parcels, and packages, if the vehicle follows
the rules set forth in the Tex. Transportation Code § 551.452 and this chapter.
   (K)   ATVs, sand rails, and off-highway vehicles as defined by Tex.
Transportation Code Ch. 551A and the like are not permitted for public roadway
use in the city.
(Ord. 2022-08-18, passed 8-18-2022) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be as an assumption of liability by the
city for any injuries (including death) to persons, pets, property which may
result from the operation of a golf cart by an authorized user.
   (B)   An owner of a golf cart is liable for the intentional or negligent
actions of any person to whom the owner grants permission to operate the
owner’s golf cart whether such operation occurs on private property and/or any
authorized public street or public parking area, and includes but is not
limited to liability for personal injuries (including death) or property damage
resulting from the acts of a person under the age of 21 who operates the
owner’s golf cart whether or not possessing a current and valid driver’s
license.
(Ord. 2022-08-18, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and punished by a fine as
provided for in the general penalty provision found in §
10.99. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2022-08-18, passed 8-18-2022)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   FAIR HOUSING
         
91.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
         
92.   OUTDOOR BURNING; AIR POLLUTION
         
93.   PARKS AND RECREATIONAL AREAS
         
94.   SAN MARCOS RIVER PROTECTION
         
95.   ANIMAL CONTROL
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Policy, interpretation and effect
   
90.03   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.04   Discrimination in housing financing
   
90.05   Discrimination in providing brokerage service
   
90.06   Violations
   
90.07   Enforcement
   
90.08   Investigation and conciliation
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGE. The calendar age of an individual 18 years of age or over.
   CREED. Any set of principles, rules, opinions and precepts formally
expressed and seriously adhered to or maintained by a person.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act which is unlawful under this
chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or port on thereof which is occupied as,
or designed and intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more persons
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereof of any building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. A single individual or a group of individuals living together under
one common roof.
   MAJOR LIFE ACTIVITIES. Functions such as, but not limited to, caring for
one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking,
breathing, learning and working.
   MARITAL STATUS. An individual's status as a single, married, divorced,
widowed or separated person.
   PARENTHOOD. A person's status as a parent or legal guardian of a child or
children under the age of 18.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HANDICAP. Any physical or mental impairment which
substantially limits one or more major life activities.
   PHYSICAL OR MENTAL IMPAIRMENT. Includes:
      (1)   Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement or
anatomical loss affecting one of more of the following body systems:
neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory including
speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic
and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
      (2)   Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation,
organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning
disabilities.
   SENIOR ADULT. A person 55 years of age or older.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 1106-01, passed - -)
§ 90.02 POLICY, INTERPRETATION AND EFFECT.
   (A)   Declaration of policy.
      (1)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to bring about
through fair, orderly and lawful procedures, the opportunity of each person to
obtain housing without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex, national
origin, physical or mental handicap, marital status, parenthood or age.
      (2)   It is further declared that the policy is established upon a
recognition of the inalienable rights of each individual to obtain housing
without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical
or mental handicap marital status, parenthood, age; and further that the denial
of those rights through considerations based on race, color, creed, religion,
sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap, marital status, parenthood
or age is detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of
the city and constitutes an unjust denial or deprivation of the inalienable
rights which is within the power and the proper responsibility of government to
prevent.
   (B)   Interpretation and effect. This chapter shall in no way be interpreted
as creating a judicial right or remedy which is the same or substantially
equivalent to the remedies provided under Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of
1968, as amended or the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. §
1691). All aggrieved parties shall retain the rights granted to them to Title
VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended and the Federal Equal
Opportunity Act. In construing this chapter, it is the intent of the City
Council that the courts shall be guided by Federal Court Interpretations of
Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, and the Federal Equal
Credit Opportunity Act, where appropriate.
(Ord. 1106-01, passed - -)
§ 90.03 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   Except as exempted by law it is unlawful for a person:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, creed, religion, sex,
national origin, physical or mental handicap, marital status, parenthood or
age;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of a sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, creed, religion,
sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap, marital status, parenthood
or age;
   (C)   To make, print or publish or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation of discrimination based on
race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental
handicap, marital status, parenthood or an intention to make any preference,
limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, creed, religion,
sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap, marital status, parenthood
or age that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or rental when
the dwelling is in fact so available; or
   (E)   To induce or attempt to induce any persons to sell or rent any
dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into the
neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, creed,
religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap, marital status,
parenthood or age.
(Ord. 1106-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING FINANCING.
   It is unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other person whose business consists in whole or in part in the
making of real estate loans to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a
person applying therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing,
improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against him
or her in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration or the terms or
conditions of the loan or other financial assistance because of the race,
color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap,
marital status, parenthood or age of the person or the persons associated
therewith or because of the race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin,
physical or mental handicap, marital status, parenthood or age of the present
or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or
dwellings for which the loan or other financial assistance is to be made or
given.
(Ord. 1106-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 DISCRIMINATION IN PROVIDING BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It is unlawful for any person to deny another person access to membership
in, or participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling and renting dwellings.
(Ord. 1106-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall violate a provision of this chapter, or knowingly obstruct
or prevent compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 1106-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Generally. The City Administrator shall have the responsibility of
administering and implementing this chapter. The City Administrator may
delegate the authority to investigate and conciliate complaints to other
designated city employees.
   (B)   Complaints; generally.
      (1)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by
a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereinafter referred
to as the "charging party") may file a complaint with the City Administrator.
The complaints shall be in writing and shall identify the person alleged to
have committed or alleged to be committing a discriminatory housing practice
and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a discriminatory
housing practice are based. The City Administrator shall prepare complaint
forms and furnish them without charge to any person, upon request.
      (2)   The City Administrator shall receive and accept notification and
referral complaints from the U.S. Attorney General and the Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development pursuant to the provisions of Title VIII, Fair Housing
Act of 1958, Pub. L. 90-284, and shall treat the complaints hereunder in the
same manner as complaints filed pursuant to division (B)(1) above.
      (3)   All complaints shall be filed within 180 days following the
occurrence of an alleged discriminatory housing practice. Upon the filing or
referral of any complaint, the City Administrator shall provide notice of the
complaint by furnishing a copy of the complaint to the person named therein
(hereinafter referred to as the "respondent") who allegedly committed or were
threatening to commit an alleged discriminatory housing practice. The
respondent may file an answer to the complaint within 15 days of receipt of the
written complaint.
      (4)   All complaints and answers shall be subscribed and sworn to before
an officer authorized to administer oaths.
      (5)   If at any time the City Administrator shall receive or discover
credible evidence and shall have probable cause to believe that any person or
persons have committed a discriminatory housing practice as to which no
complaint has been filed or is about to be filed, the City Administrator may
prepare and file a complaint upon his or her own motion and in his or her own
name, and the complaint shall thereafter be treated in the same manner as a
complaint filed by a person aggrieved.
(Ord. 1106-01, passed - -)
§ 90.08 INVESTIGATION AND CONCILIATION.
   (A)   Upon the filing or referral of a complaint as herein provided, the
City Administrator shall cause to be made a prompt and full investigation of
the matter stated in the complaint; provided, however, that before any charge
becomes accepted for investigative purposes, the City Administrator or an
investigator shall have personally reviewed with the charging party the
allegations contained therein and shall have determined that the charge comes
within the provisions of this chapter. In the event the review results in the
determination that a particular charge does not come within the provisions of
this chapter, the charging party shall be given a clear and concise explanation
of the reasons why it does not.
   (B)   If the City Administrator determines that there is not probable cause
to believe that a particular alleged discriminatory housing practice has been
committed, the City Administrator shall take no further action with respect to
that alleged offense.
   (C)   During or after the investigation, but subsequent to the mailing of
the notice of complaint, the City Administrator shall, if it appears that a
discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is threatening to occur,
attempt by informal endeavors to effect conciliation, including voluntary
discontinuance of the discriminatory housing practice and to obtain adequate
assurance of future voluntary compliance with provisions of this chapter.
Nothing said or done in the course of the informal endeavors may be made public
by the City Administrator, the investigator, the conciliator, the charging
party or the respondent, or be used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding
without the written consent of all persons concerned.
   (D)   Upon completion of an investigation where the City Administrator has
made a determination that a discriminatory housing practice has in fact
occurred, if the City Administrator is unable to secure from the respondent an
acceptable conciliation agreement, City Administrator will refer the case to
the City Attorney for prosecution in Municipal Court or to other agencies as
appropriate. With the recommendation of the City Administrator, the City
Administrator shall refer his or her entire file to the City Attorney. The City
Attorney shall, after the referral, make a determination as to whether to
proceed with prosecution of the complaint in Municipal Court.
(Ord. 1106-01, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
Noise Regulations
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Unreasonable noise prohibited
   
91.03   Limitations on the volume of sound emanating from vehicular sound
amplification systems
   
91.04   Application for special events which involve loud and potentially
disruptive noise
   
91.05   Engine exhaust braking system
Weeds, Brush and the Like
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Prohibited conditions
   
91.17   Notice to correct prohibited conditions
   
91.18   Correction of prohibited conditions by city; lien
   
91.19   Abatement hearing
Roadside Maintenance
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Prohibited conditions
   
91.22   Notice to correct prohibited conditions
   
91.23   Correction of prohibited conditions by city; lien
   
91.24   Abatement hearing
Junked and Nuisance Vehicles
   
91.30   Purpose
   
91.31   Definitions
   
91.32   Administrative responsibility
   
91.33   Junked vehicles declared a nuisance
   
91.34   Exceptions
   
91.35   Enforcement
   
91.36   Public hearing in Municipal Court
   
91.37   Disposal of nuisance vehicle
   
91.38   Notice to state
   
91.39   Civil enforcement
Substandard Structures
   
91.50   Unsafe buildings
   
91.51   Unoccupied buildings
   
91.52   [Reserved]
   
91.53   Notice of violation
   
91.54   Initial hearing
   
91.55   Burden of proof at hearing
   
91.56   Procedure after initial hearing
   
91.57   Enforcement
   
91.58   Securing of substandard buildings
   
91.59   Notice of secured building
   
91.60   Hearing
   
91.61   Procedure after hearing
   
91.62   Costs
 
   
91.99   Penalty
NOISE REGULATIONS
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide clear regulations for the
control of loud and disturbing noise within the city and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction (ETJ). The objective is to control noise where necessary to allow
all citizens to enjoy an environment free from unnecessary noise.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004)
§ 91.02 UNREASONABLE NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The creation of any unreasonable loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noises in the city is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Noises of a character, intensity and duration as are reasonably
calculated to be detrimental to the life or health of any ordinary reasonable
person are hereby prohibited.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 LIMITATIONS ON THE VOLUME OF SOUND EMANATING FROM VEHICULAR SOUND
AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle in either a
public or private place within the city to operate any sound amplifier in the
motor vehicle in a manner that is audible at a distance of 50 feet or causes a
person to be aware of the vibration from the amplifier at a distance of 50 feet
from the source.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   An authorized emergency vehicle as defined in Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat.
Art. 6701(d), or within the Texas Transportation Code;
      (2)   Motor vehicle used for business or political purposes, properly
permitted, which in the normal course of business use sound making devices; or
      (3)   Horns or warning devices required under the Texas Transportation
Code or Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat. Art. 6701(d).
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL EVENTS WHICH INVOLVE LOUD AND POTENTIALLY
DISRUPTIVE NOISE.
   (A)   From time to time, groups within the city may wish to organize special
events or celebrations (i.e., Jamaica festival) which involve loud music and/or
public address systems. To the extent these special events would otherwise
violate this subchapter, the organizing group will need to submit a special
event application and obtain a permit from the City Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   The organizing group will apply for a special event permit at
least seven days before the event.
      (2)   The application must specify the location and the dates and hours
during which the special event is planned to take place.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004)
§ 91.05 ENGINE EXHAUST BRAKING SYSTEM.
   No person may use an engine exhaust braking system, commonly know as a
“Jake” or “Jacob’s Brake,” while operating a motor vehicle within the corporate
limits of the city. For the purpose of this section, the term ENGINE EXHAUST
BRAKING means an engine exhaust braking system device which converts an engine
power into an air compressor and when engaged, operates to slow the vehicle.
This section applies to roadways or streets within the corporate limits of the
city, including state-maintained highways.
(Ord. 2022-11-03, passed 11-3-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
WEEDS, BRUSH AND THE LIKE
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BRUSH. All trees and shrubs under seven feet in height that are not
cultivated and regularly maintained, and because of their condition, constitute
a breeding place or harborage for mosquitoes or vermin.
   LOT. A tract of real property.
   RUBBISH. Garbage, trash or other discarded personal property.
   STAGNANT WATER. Water which stands upon a lot in a manner and for a period
of time likely to create a breeding place for mosquitoes.
   WEEDS. Grass or uncultivated vegetation, other than trees and shrubs, that
exceeds 12 inches in height or that is a breeding place or harborage for
mosquitoes or vermin.
(Ord. 2010-395, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 91.16 PROHIBITED CONDITIONS.
   It is unlawful for an owner or occupant of a lot to cause or permit weeds,
rubbish, brush or stagnant water to accumulate or remain on the lot.
(Ord. 2010-395, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 NOTICE TO CORRECT PROHIBITED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the Administrator will
provide notice to owners of lots found in violation of §
91.16 that they must correct the prohibited conditions within ten days of the
notice.
   (B)   The Administrator will give the notice:
      (1)   Personally to the owner in writing;
      (2)   By certified mail letter addressed to the owner at the owner's post
office address; or
      (3)   If personal service cannot be obtained and the owner's post office
address is unknown, by:
         (a)   Publication at least once in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city;
         (b)   Posting the notice on or near the front door of the main
building on the lot to which the violation relates; or
         (c)   Posting the notice on a placard attached to a stake driven into
the ground on the lot to which the violation relates, if the lot contains no
buildings.
   (C)   A notice sent to an owner under division (B)(2) of this section may
contain a statement that if the owner commits another violation of §
91.16 that poses a danger to the public health or safety on or before the first
anniversary date of the notice, the city may correct the violation and assess
the expenses against the lot without further notice to the owner.
   (D)   If weeds on a lot have grown higher than 48 inches and are an
immediate threat to the health, life or safety of any person, the city may
correct the condition of the lot under §
91.18 without advance notice to the owner. The Administrator will give the
owner notice of the correction within ten days, together with notice of the
owner's right to an administrative hearing under §
91.19 if requested in writing within 30 days of the correction.
(Ord. 2010-395, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 91.18 CORRECTION OF PROHIBITED CONDITIONS BY CITY; LIEN.
   (A)   If the owner of a lot does not comply with a notice under §
91.17, the city may:
      (1)   Cause work to be performed to correct the condition; and
      (2)   Charge the expenses to the owner of the lot.
   (B)   The Administrator will execute a statement of the costs of abatement,
including an administrative fee of $75, and file the statement as a lien with
the County Clerk of the county in which the lot is located. The statement must
include the name of the owner, if known, and the legal description of the lot.
(Ord. 2010-395, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 91.19 ABATEMENT HEARING.
   (A)   If a lot owner requests a hearing under §
91.17(D), the Municipal Court Judge will conduct a hearing within 20 days of
the request.
   (B)   If the judge finds from a preponderance of the evidence that weeds on
the lot were higher than 48 inches and were an immediate threat to the health,
life or safety of any person, the city may charge the expenses to the owner and
file a lien under §
91.18.
   (C)   If the judge does not make this finding, the city will bear the
expenses.
(Ord. 2010-395, passed 7-20-2010)
ROADSIDE MAINTENANCE
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BRUSH. All trees and shrubs under seven feet in height that are not
cultivated and regularly maintained, and because of their condition, constitute
a breeding place or harborage for mosquitoes or vermin.
   LOT. A tract of real property.
   MAN-MADE STRUCTURE. Any permanent structure or device created on a lot that
defines a boundary, such as a fence or building.
   TREE LIMBS. Any of the main branches arising from the trunk or a bough of a
tree.
(Ord. passed  9-10-2019 )
§ 91.21 PROHIBITED CONDITIONS.
   It is unlawful for an owner or occupant of a lot to cause or permit tree
limbs or brush to:
   (A)   Extend within six feet of the edge of city streets or roads. If the
distance between the road and any man-made structure is less than six feet,
then the limit will be to the man-made structure.
   (B)   Extend into an area less than fourteen feet above the road and
easement boundary described in division (A) above.
(Ord. passed  9-10-2019 )
§ 91.22 NOTICE TO CORRECT PROHIBITED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the Administrator will
provide notice to owners of lots found in violation of §
91.21 that they must correct the prohibited conditions within ten days of the
notice.
   (B)   The Administrator will give the notice:
      (1)   Personally to the owner in writing;
      (2)   By certified mail letter addressed to the owner at the owner's post
office address; or
      (3)   If personal service cannot be obtained and the owner's post office
address is unknown, by:
         (a)   Publication at least once in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city;
         (b)   Posting the notice on or near the front door of the main
building on the lot to which the violation relates; or
         (c)   Posting the notice on a placard attached to a stake driven into
the ground on the lot to which the violation relates, if the lot contains no
buildings.
   (C)   A notice sent to an owner under division (B) (2) of this section may
contain a statement that if the owner commits another violation of §
91.21 that poses a danger to the public health or safety on or before the first
anniversary date of the notice, the city may correct the violation and assess
the expenses against the lot without further notice to the owner.
   (D)   If tree limbs, trees, or brush on a lot interfere with visibility of
on-coming traffic and are an immediate threat to the health, life or safety of
any person, the city may correct the condition of the lot under §
91.23 without advance notice to the owner. The Administrator will give the
owner notice of the correction within ten days, together with notice of the
owner's right to an administrative hearing under §
91.24 if requested in writing within 30 days of the correction.
(Ord. passed  9-10-2019 )
§ 91.23 CORRECTION OF PROHIBITED CONDITIONS BY CITY; LIEN.
   (A)   If the owner of a lot does not comply with a notice under §
91.22. the city may:
      (1)   Cause work to be performed to correct the condition; and
      (2)   Charge the expenses to the owner of the lot.
   (B)   The Administrator will execute a statement of the costs of abatement,
including an administrative fee of $75, and file the statement as a lien with
the County Clerk of the county in which the lot is located. The statement must
include the name of the owner, if known, and the legal description of the lot.
(Ord. passed  9-10-2019 )
§ 91.24 ABATEMENT HEARING.
   (A)   If a lot owner requests a hearing under §
91.22(D), the Municipal Court Judge will conduct a hearing within 20 days of
the request.
   (B)   If the judge finds from a preponderance of the evidence that trees or
brush on the lot encroached on the street or easement within six feet of the
edge of the road or were lower than 14 feet above the road surface the city may
charge the expenses to the owner and file a lien under §
91.22.
   (C)   If the judge does not make this finding, the city will bear the
expenses.
(Ord. passed  9-10-2019 )
JUNKED AND NUISANCE VEHICLES
§ 91.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide clear rules and regulations to
identify, remove, or control junked vehicles that are declared pubic nuisances
within the city.
(Ord. 2011-01-01, passed 2-1-2011)
§ 91.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE AUTO. A passenger car or truck that is at least 25 years old.
   COLLECTOR. The owner of one or more antique or special interest vehicles who
collects, purchases, acquires, trades of disposes of special interest or
antique vehicles or parts of them for personal use in order to restore,
preserve and maintain an antique or special interest vehicle for historic
interest.
   JUNKED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled, or that is a trailer or
semi-trailer, or that is a recreational vehicle, and:
      (1)   Either the license plate or inspection sticker is expired, or not
attached to the vehicle; and
      (2)   Is:
         (a)   Wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled, or discarded; or
         (b)   Inoperable and has remained inoperable for more than 72
consecutive hours, if the vehicle is on public property, or 30 consecutive
days, if the vehicle is on private property.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A junked vehicle, including parts thereof, that is located
in a place where it is visible form a public place or public right-of-way.
   SPECIAL INTEREST VEHICLE. A motor vehicle of any age that has not been
altered or modified from original manufacturer's specifications and, because of
its historic significance, is being preserved by a hobbyist.
   STORAGE FACILITY. A garage, parking lot or any type of facility or
establishment for the servicing, repairing, storing or parking of motor
vehicles.
(Ord. 2011-01-01, passed 2-1-2011)
§ 91.32 ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police are responsible for administering this
subchapter. They may use all city personnel in carrying out that
administration.
(Ord. 2011-01-01, passed 2-1-2011)
§ 91.33 JUNKED VEHICLES DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   The City Council finds that a junked vehicle, including parts thereof,
that is located in a place where it is visible from a public place or public
right-of-way is a public nuisance because it:
      (1)   Is detrimental to the safety and welfare of the general public;
      (2)   Tends to reduce the value of private property;
      (3)   Invites vandalism;
      (4)   Creates fire hazards;
      (5)   Is an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health and
safety of minors; and
      (6)   Produces urban blight adverse to the maintenance and continuing
development of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to maintain a public nuisance as defined
in this subchapter. A person maintains a public nuisance if the person:
      (1)   Causes or permits a junked vehicle or part of junked vehicle to be
placed or to remain on any public property or public right-of-way;
      (2)   Owns or controls any real property, and causes or permits a
nuisance vehicle to be placed or to remain on the property; or
      (3)   Causes or permits a nuisance vehicle to be placed or to remain on
real property without the permission of the owner of the property.
(Ord. 2011-01-01, passed 2-1-2011)
§ 91.34 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibition in §
93.33(B) above shall not apply to vehicle or vehicle part:
      (1)   That is completely enclosed in a building in a lawful manner and is
not visible from a street or other public or private property.
      (2)   That is stored or parked in a lawful manner on private property in
connection with the business of a licensed vehicle dealer or junkyard, or that
is an antique or special interest vehicle stored by a motor vehicle collector
on the collector's property, if the vehicle or part and the outdoor storage
area, if any, are:
         (a)   Maintained in an orderly manner;
         (b)   Not a health hazard; and
         (c)   Screened from ordinary public view by appropriate means,
including a fence, rapidly growing trees, or shrubbery, or covered with a heavy
duty contour-fitting cover; or
      (3)   That is an appropriate storage facility maintained by the city or
approved by the city.
   (B)   This section does not allow a person to leave a junked vehicle on
private property without the permission of the owner of the property.
(Ord. 2011-01-01, passed 2-1-2011)
§ 91.35 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Persons authorized to administer this subchapter may enter public or
private property to examine a vehicle or vehicle part, obtain information as to
the identity of the vehicle owner, and remove or cause the removal of a
nuisance vehicle or vehicle part.
   (B)   Notification of owner and lien holders.
      (1)   For nuisance vehicles on private property, the city will give
written notice by certified mail, five-day return requested, to the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, any lien holder of record, and the owner or
occupant of the property on which the vehicle is located. If the mailing
address of the owner is unknown, the notice may be placed on the vehicle or
hand delivered to the owner.
      (2)   The notice must state that the nuisance must be abated and removed
not later than the fifteenth day after the date on which the notice was
personally delivered or mailed, and that any request for a hearing must be made
before that ten-day period expires, or the right to a hearing is waived and the
vehicle will be deemed to be a nuisance vehicle.
      (3)   If a notice is returned undelivered, official action to abate the
nuisance vehicle shall be contained to a date not less than 15 days after the
date of return.
      (4)   For nuisance vehicles on the public right-of-way which are not
dealt with as abandoned motor vehicles, written notice will be given as
described in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section, except that notice
will be mailed to the owner or occupant of the premises adjacent to the public
right-of-way rater than to the owner or occupant of the right-of-way.
(Ord. 2011-01-01, passed 2-1-2011)
§ 91.36 PUBLIC HEARING IN MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   Upon the timely request for a hearing by any person to whom a notice
was given regarding a nuisance vehicle, a public hearing will be held before
the Municipal Court judge. Notice of the time, date and location of the hearing
will be provided to each person who submitted a timely request for a hearing.
   (B)   The issue at the hearing is whether the vehicle is a nuisance vehicle.
The judge will determine the issued based upon a preponderance of the evidence.
   (C)   At the hearing, unless proved otherwise, the vehicle is presumed to be
inoperable.
   (D)   If the judge finds the vehicle to be a nuisance vehicle, the judge
will order the vehicle to be removed.
   (E)   Any order requiring the removal of a nuisance vehicle or vehicle part
must include a description of the vehicle and the vehicle identification number
and license plate number, if the information is available at the site.
(Ord. 2011-01-01, passed 2-1-2011)
§ 91.37 DISPOSAL OF NUISANCE VEHICLE.
   (A)   The city may remove a nuisance vehicle at any time following a public
hearing and order of the judge or following the waiver of a hearing.
   (B)   A nuisance vehicle or vehicle part will be disposed of by the city by
removal to a scrap yard, demolisher or any suitable site operable by the city
for processing as scrap or salvage.
   (C)   If the City Council determines that commercial channels of disposition
are not available or are inadequate, the city may operate its own disposal site
and make final disposition of nuisance vehicles or vehicle parts at the
disposal site, or the city may transfer the vehicles or vehicle parts to
another disposal site if the disposal is only as scrap or salvage.
(Ord. 2011-01-01, passed 2-1-2011)
§ 91.38 NOTICE TO STATE.
   The city will give notice to the State Department of Transportation of the
removal of a nuisance vehicle not later than 15 days after its removal.
(Ord. 2011-01-01, passed 2-1-2011)
§ 91.39 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   The city may direct the City Attorney to bring a civil action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
Additionally, the city shall be entitled to recover its reasonable attorney's
fees and expenses if the city is the prevailing party in a civil action
involving any violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-01-01, passed 2-1-2011)
SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURES
§ 91.50 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   All buildings or structures which are unsafe, unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation, not provided with adequate egress, or which constitute a fire
hazard, otherwise dangerous to human life or which constitute a hazard to the
safety, health or welfare of the public, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are considered unsafe buildings.
All buildings in violation of the International Property Maintenance Code, as
amended, shall constitute prima facia evidence that the building or structure
is unsafe. All such unsafe buildings in the city limit and extra territorial
jurisdiction are hereby declared a public nuisance and illegal and shall be
abated by repair, rehabilitation or by demolition.
(Ord. 2017-07-02, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.51 UNOCCUPIED BUILDINGS.
   Any or all buildings regardless of structural condition, which are
unoccupied by the owners, lessees, or other invitee(s) and are unsecured or
inadequately secured from unauthorized entry to the extent that they could be
entered or used by vagrants or other uninvited persons as a place of harborage
or could be entered or used by children or otherwise constitute a danger to the
public are considered unsafe. All such unsafe buildings in the city limit and
extra territorial jurisdiction are hereby declared a public nuisance and
illegal and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation or by demolition.
(Ord. 2017-07-02, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.52 [RESERVED].
§ 91.53 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever it is determined that there are reasonable grounds to believe
that there has been a violation of any provision of this chapter or of any rule
or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, notice of such alleged violation shall
be given to the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee and such alleged violations
shall constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The date, time, and location of the hearing before the Planning and
Zoning Board; and
      (2)   A statement that the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee will be
required to submit proof, at the hearing, of any work that may be required to
comply with the ordinance and the time it will take to reasonably perform the
work.
   (C)   Prior to conducting the hearing before the Planning and Zoning Board
the city will make an effort to locate each lienholder and mortgagee having an
interest in the building or in the property on which the building is located
and give them a notice of and an opportunity to comment at the hearing.
   (D)   The city may file notice of the hearing in the official public records
of real property in Caldwell or Guadalupe County.
(Ord. 2017-07-02, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.54 INITIAL HEARING.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Board may require the owner, lienholder, or
mortgagee of the building to, within 30 days, secure the building from
unauthorized entry or to repair, remove, or demolish the building, whichever is
applicable, unless the owner or lienholder establishes at the hearing that the
work cannot reasonably be performed within 30 days. The city will furnish a
copy of the order to any lienholders or mortgagees in the event the owner fails
to timely take the ordered action.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Board may allow the owner, lienholder, or
mortgagee more than 30 days to repair, remove or demolish the building. If the
Planning and Zoning Board allows the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee more than
30 days to repair, remove or demolish the building, the Planning and Zoning
Board shall establish specific time schedules for the commencement and
performance of the work and shall require the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee
to secure the property in a reasonable manner from unauthorized entry while the
work is being performed. The city will furnish a copy of the order to any
lienholders or mortgagees in the event the owner fails to timely take the
ordered action.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Board may not allow the owner, lienholder, or
mortgagee more than 90 days to repair, remove, or demolish the building or to
fully perform all work required to comply with the order unless at the hearing
the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee submits a detailed plan and time schedule
for the work at the hearing and establishes at the hearing that the work cannot
reasonably be completed within 90 days because of the scope and complexity of
the work.
   (D)   If the Planning and Zoning Board allows the owner, lienholder, or
mortgagee more than 90 days to complete any part of the work required to
repair, remove, or demolish the building, the Planning and Zoning Board shall
require the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee to regularly submit progress
reports to the city Building Official to demonstrate that the owner,
lienholder, or mortgagee has complied with the time schedules established for
commencement and performance of the work. The city will furnish a copy of the
order to any lienholders or mortgagees in the event the owner fails to timely
take the ordered action.
(Ord. 2017-07-02, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.55 BURDEN OF PROOF AT INITIAL HEARING.
   In the hearing to determine whether a building complies with the standards
set out in the building regulations of this city code, the owner, lienholder,
or mortgagee has the burden of proof to demonstrate the scope of any work that
may be required to comply with the housing code and the time it will take to
reasonably perform the work.
(Ord. 2017-07-02, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.56 PROCEDURE AFTER HEARING.
   After the hearing before the Planning and Zoning Board the city will mail by
certified mail, return receipt requested, a copy of the order to the owner of
the building and to any lienholder or mortgagee of the building. Within ten
days after the date the order from the Planning and Zoning Board is issued the
city will:
   (A)   File a copy of the order in the office of the City Clerk; and
   (B)   Publish in a local newspaper a notice containing:
      (1)   The street address or legal description of the property;
      (2)   The date of the hearing;
      (3)   A brief statement indicating the results of the hearing or order;
and
      (4)   Instructions stating where a complete copy of the order may be
obtained.
(Ord. 2017-07-02, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.57 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   After the expiration of the time granted by the Planning and Zoning
Board for the repair, removal, demolition of a building, or the relocation of
occupants of a building, whichever is applicable, the city will either:
      (1)   Refer the property owner to municipal court for criminal
prosecution;
      (2)   Vacate occupants, secure, remove, or demolish the building, or
relocate the occupants, whichever is applicable, and assess the expenses
against the property on which the building is located;
      (3)   Repair the building and assess the expenses on the land on which
the building stands or to which it is attached; or
      (4)   Assess a civil penalty against the property owner for failure to
repair, remove, or demolish the building.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Board by order, may assess and recover a civil
penalty against the property owner in an amount not to exceed $1,000 per day
for each violation or, if the owner shows that the property is the owner's
lawful homestead, in an amount not to exceed $10 per day for each violation, if
the city proves:
      (1)   The property owner was notified of the requirements of this chapter
and the owner's need to comply with the requirements; and
      (2)   After notification, the property owner committed an act in
violation of this chapter or failed to take an action necessary for compliance
with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-07-02, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.58 SECURING OF SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS.
   The city may secure a building if the city determines the building violates
the minimum standards set forth in the building regulations of this code and is
unoccupied or is occupied only by persons who do not have a right of possession
to the building.
(Ord. 2017-07-02, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.59 NOTICE OF SECURED BUILDING.
   Before the eleventh day after the date the building is secured pursuant to §
91.58, the city will give notice to the owner of the building by either:
   (A)   Personally serving the owner with written notice;
   (B)   Depositing the notice in the United States mail addressed to the owner
at the owner's post office address; or
   (C)   If personal service cannot be obtained and the owner's post office
address is unknown:
      (1)   Publishing the notice at least twice within a ten-day period in the
official newspaper of the city; or
      (2)   Posting the notice on or near the front door of the building. The
notice will contain:
         (a)   An identification of the building and the property on which it
is located;
         (b)   A description of the violation of the Building Regulations Code
standards that is present at the building;
         (c)   A statement that the city will secure or has secured, as the
case may be, the building; and
         (d)   The owner's right to request a hearing about any matter relating
to the city's securing of the building.
(Ord. 2017-07-02, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.60 HEARING.
   (A)   If, within 30 days after the date the city secures a building, the
owner files with the city a written request for a hearing, the Planning and
Zoning Board will conduct a hearing at which the owner may testify or present
witnesses or written information about any matter relating to the city's
securing of the building.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Board will conduct the hearing within 20 days
after the date the request is filed.
(Ord. 2017-07-02, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.61 PROCEDURE AFTER HEARING.
   After the hearing before the Planning and Zoning Board, or the expiration of
the time allowed for the owner to request a hearing and no hearing has been
requested, the city will mail by certified mail, return receipt requested, a
copy of the order to the owner of the building and to any lienholder or
mortgagee of the building. Within ten days after the date the order from the
Planning and Zoning Board is issued, the city will:
   (A)   File a copy of the order in the office of the City Clerk; and
   (B)   Publish in the city's official newspaper a notice containing:
      (1)   The street address or legal description of the property;
      (2)   The date of the hearing;
      (3)   A brief statement indicating the results of the hearing or order;
and
      (4)   Instructions stating where a complete copy of the order may be
obtained.
(Ord. 2017-07-02, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.62 COSTS.
   The city may assess the expenses incurred to secure a building pursuant to §
91.58 against the property on which the building is located. The city may
foreclose a lien under this section unless it is homestead property protected
by the Texas Constitution.
(Ord. 2017-07-02, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed is subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates any provision of §
91.05 shall be punished, upon conviction thereof, by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (C)   (1)   A person who violates any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.19 pertaining to public health and sanitation, including dumping of refuse,
shall be punished, upon conviction, by a fine not to exceed $2,000.
      (2)   A person who violates any other provision of §§
91.15 through
91.19 shall be punished, upon conviction thereof, by a fine not to exceed $500.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) or (2) above, no penalty for a
violation shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same or
similar offense under the laws of the state.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in an ordinance, a separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day on or during which a violation occurs
or continues.
      (5)   Prosecution for violation of a provision of a city ordinance is not
a prerequisite or bar to any other remedy or relief for the violation under a
city ordinance or state law.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
91.30 through
91.39 commits a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine not
to exceed $1,000. Each day a violation continues constitutes a separate
offense.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a person for violation of §§
91.30 through
91.39, the court may order the removal and abatement of the nuisance vehicle by
the person.
   (E)   Culpable mental state, penalty.
      (1)   Any violation of §§
91.50 through
91.68 is declared to be a strict liability offense and a culpable mental state
is clearly dispensed with.
      (2)   Any violation of §§
91.50 through
91.68 is punishable by fine of not less than $1 nor more than $2,000. Every day
shall constitute a new and distinct offense.
(Ord. 2010-395, passed 7-20-2010; Ord. 2011-01-01, passed 2-1-2011; Ord. 2017-
07-02, passed 2-7-2017; Ord. 2022-11-03, passed 11-3-2022)
CHAPTER 92: OUTDOOR BURNING; AIR POLLUTION
Section
   
92.01   Purposes
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Declaration of nuisance
   
92.04   Prohibition on burning certain materials
   
92.05   Uncontrolled outdoor burning prohibited; exceptions
   
92.06   Burning requirements
   
92.07   Outdoor burning
   
92.08   Responsibility for consequences of outdoor burning
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General nuisances, see
Chapter 91
   Parks and recreation, see
Chapter 93
§ 92.01 PURPOSES.
   The following regulations apply to outdoor burning within the city. This
chapter is adopted pursuant to regulations adopted by the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality (TCEQ) under the provisions of the State Clean Air Act
(Tex. Health and Safety Code, §§ 382.001 et seq.) which grants to cities
certain powers to enact and enforce ordinances regulating air contaminants and
air pollution, and is further adopted to promote fire prevention within the
city.
(Ord. passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BRUSH. Cuttings or trimmings from trees, shrubs, gardens or lawns, or
similar materials.
   COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS. Magazines, books, brush, pasteboard boxes, rags,
paper, straw, sawdust, packing materials, shavings, boxes and all rubbish and
refuse that will ignite through contact with flames of ordinary temperatures.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. Waste normally resulting from the function of life within a
residence which can be burned which include such things as kitchen garbage,
untreated lumber, cardboard boxes, packaging (including plastics and rubber),
clothing, grass, leaves and branch trimmings.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION (ETJ). The unincorporated area that is
contiguous to the corporate boundaries of the municipality and that is located
within one-half mile of those boundaries, in the case of a municipality with
fewer than 5,000 inhabitants.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods and shall include all putrescent
wastes, including vegetable, animal and poultry offal, and carcasses of small
animals and dead fouls, and shall include all substances from all public and
private establishments and from all residences.
   JUNK. Includes junk automobiles, used automobile tires and damaged or used
household furnishings, as well as, non-wood construction debris, furniture,
carpet, electrical wire and appliances.
   OUTDOOR BURNING. Any fire or smoke producing process that is not conducted
in a boiler plant, furnace, incinerator, domestic fireplace, flare, engine or
other device used to oxidize solid, liquid or gaseous fuels.
   PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT. The uprooting, cutting or clearing of vegetation in
connection with conversion for the construction of buildings, rights-of-way,
residential, commercial or industrial development, or the clearing of
vegetation to enhance property value, access or production.
   RUBBISH. Solid waste (excluding ashes), consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste materials. COMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH includes paper, rags,
cartons, food, excelsior, furniture, plastics, yard trimmings, leaves or
similar materials; NONCOMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH includes glass, crockery, tin cans,
aluminum cans, metal furniture and similar materials that will not burn at
ordinary incinerator temperatures (1,600°F to 1,800°F).
   RUBBLE. Includes debris resulting from construction, reconstruction or
repair of buildings, and includes all waste building materials.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish, combustible materials, ashes, street
cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles and all other solid waste.
   SENSITIVE USE. A structure utilized for human residence or business, the
shelter of livestock, or the housing of vegetation that is sensitive to damage
from heat or smoke.
   UNCONTROLLED OUTDOOR BURNING. Any outdoor burning that is not conducted
pursuant to an exemption provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 92.03 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Uncontrolled outdoor burning of rubbish, garbage, brush, combustible
materials and all other solid waste within the city limits and the ETJ of the
city is hereby declared to be a nuisance that creates conditions that are
detrimental to the lives, health and property of the citizens of the city and
interferes with the enjoyment of property and the public peace and comfort.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 92.04 PROHIBITION ON BURNING CERTAIN MATERIALS.
   No person shall burn or cause to be burned any trash, garbage, junk, rubble,
electrical insulation, treated lumber, plastics, non-wood construction or
demolition materials, heavy oils, asphaltic materials, potentially explosive
materials, chemical wastes, items containing natural or synthetic rubber, or
waste within the city at any time. Outdoor burning, as outlined in §
92.02 above, is also prohibited at any time when the county has an "emergency
order prohibition of outdoor burning" in effect. Prior to any outdoor burning
not covered by the exceptions in §
92.05 below, the County Fire Dispatcher must be notified.
(Ord. passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 UNCONTROLLED OUTDOOR BURNING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibitions. It is unlawful for a person to cause, suffer, allow or
permit any uncontrolled outdoor burning of rubbish, garbage, brush, combustible
materials or solid waste within the city limits or the ETJ of the city.
   (B)   Exceptions. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Outdoor burning in connection with the preparation of food;
      (2)   Campfires and fires used solely for recreational purposes or for
ceremonial occasions;
      (3)   Domestic burning for heat and cooking within any dwelling unit when
contained in an approved fireplace. Barbeque pits, smokers, liquid propane
cookers or similar open flame cooking equipment shall not be used within ten
feet of any structure; or
      (4)   Burning within an incinerator constructed and maintained in
accordance with the most current editions of the standards and specifications
of the National Fire Protection Association. Burning for the purpose of
property development or land clearing operations shall be by trench burner or
air curtain operations.
(Ord. passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 BURNING REQUIREMENTS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as permitting any
burning in violation of any rule, regulation or order of the State Clean Air
Act or Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) rules and regulations.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to commence or conduct outdoor burning
when wind direction and other meteorological conditions are such that smoke and
other pollutants will cause adverse effects to any public road, landing strip,
navigable water or off-site use.
   (B)   If at any time the burning causes or may tend to cause smoke to blow
onto or across a road or highway, the person initiating the burn must post flag
persons on affected roads in accordance with the requirements of the State
Department of Transportation and the State Department of Public Safety.
   (C)   It is unlawful for a person to conduct outdoor burning during periods
of actual or predicted persistent low-level atmospheric temperature inversions
or in an area covered by a current air stagnation advisory.
      (1)   The initiation of outdoor burning shall commence no earlier than
one hour after sunrise.
      (2)   Outdoor burning shall be completed and the fire completely
extinguished on the same day not later than one hour before sunset.
      (3)   The open burning shall be attended by a responsible party at all
times.
(Ord. passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 OUTDOOR BURNING.
   (A)   Only material derived from the burn site or another location/site
within the city limits or the ETJ of the city may be burned on that site.
Materials may not be brought in from other sites outside the city limits or ETJ
of the city to be burned.
   (B)   Burning of brush is permitted provided the brush pile is no closer
than 50 feet from a public roadway or property line. A brush pile cannot be
larger than 25 feet in diameter and not higher than 15 feet. Piles may not be
spaced closer than 50 feet between piles. Only one pile may be burned at a
time. At least one serviceable portable fire extinguisher with a rating of 4A:
10B:C (ten-pound ABC) shall be readily accessible and/or a functioning water
hose shall be readily accessible.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 92.08 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONSEQUENCES OF OUTDOOR BURNING.
   (A)   This chapter does not exempt or excuse a person conducting a burn,
from consequences, damages or injuries resulting from the burn. This chapter
does not exempt nor excuse anyone from complying with all other applicable laws
or ordinances, regulations and orders of governmental entities having
jurisdiction even though the burning is otherwise conducted in compliance with
this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who conducts outdoor burning, whether permitted or
prohibited by this chapter will be liable the costs associated with emergency
responders, police, fire and EMS departments, or mutual aid fire departments
who respond to an out of control fire.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall constitute a Class C misdemeanor, and upon
conviction, shall be punishable by a fine pursuant to the general penalty set
forth in the city code of ordinances for the city. In addition, the city may
also direct the City Attorney to bring a civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATIONAL AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Purpose and objective
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Authority and control
   
93.04   Hours for city parks and facilities
   
93.05   Use of park facilities for public or private purposes
   
93.06   Disruptive conduct
   
93.07   Care and custody of minor children
   
93.08   Traffic and motor vehicles
   
93.09   Possession of alcoholic beverages
   
93.10   Glass beverage containers
Specific Provisions
   
93.25   Fires, fireworks, firearms and smoking
   
93.26   Animals
   
93.27   Trash and littering
   
93.28   Bicycles
   
93.29   Swimming
   
93.30   Hunting, fishing and camping
   
93.31   Signs and advertising
   
93.32   Commercialization activities
   
93.33   Stored or abandoned property
   
93.34   Miscellaneous
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Outdoor burning, see
Chapter 92
   Public nuisances, see
Chapter 91
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   The purpose and objective of this chapter is to provide clear rules and
regulations for the governance and maintenance of city parks and to control
activities where necessary to allow all citizens to enjoy city parks free from
disturbance and/or danger caused by other facility users.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is equipped with a saddle for the
use of the rider, designed to propel itself with three or four tires in contact
with the ground, designed by the manufacturer for off-highway use by the
operator only, and not designed by the manufacturer for farming or lawn care.
   ARTIFACTS. Objects used or modified by humans, including but not limited to
arrowheads, dart points, stone, bone or shell implements or any other object of
historic or archeological significance.
   CAMP or CAMPING. Erecting a tent, arranging bedding or both for the purpose
of remaining overnight, or the use of a trailer, camper or other vehicle for
the purpose of sleeping during the night.
   CITY PARK. Any area of real property owned, used or maintained by the city
as a public park, playground or athletic facility, together with any adjacent
or nearby area for parking of vehicles in connection with the use of park.
   CULTURAL FEATURE. Includes but is not limited to city archeological
landmarks, archeological sites, historic sites and structures, Indian rock art
or historic rock art.
   FIREARM. Any device from which a shot, projectile, arrow or bolt is fired by
the force of an explosion, compressed air, gas or mechanical device. FIREARMS
include but are not limited to the following: rifle, shotgun, handgun, air
rifle and pellet gun, longbow, cross bow, sling shot, blow gun, spear gun or
dart gun.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in the Texas Transportation Code.
   NIGHT. The period beginning one-half hour after sunset and ending one-half
hour before sunrise.
   PARK BOUNDARY. River front parkland jurisdiction shall extend to the
opposite riverbank.
   RUN AT LARGE. Any domesticated animal that is unaccompanied or not under the
immediate physical control of its owner or caretaker.
   TEMPORARY RESTRICTION. Any restriction imposed by the Mayor or City Council
on the use of city park areas or facilities for a period less than 30 days.
   WILDLIFE. Any animal, bird, amphibian, reptile, fish, shellfish or other
aquatic life or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. 2023-06-15, passed 6-15-2023)
§ 93.03 AUTHORITY AND CONTROL.
   (A)   The City Council shall have and shall exercise the power to control
all activities, hours of use and days and times of opening and closing to the
public of all city park boundaries. In exercising this power, the Council will
consider any recommendations of the Parks Advisory Board.
   (B)   The Mayor and the Chief of Police are charged with the responsibility
of supervising and maintaining law and order in all city parks.
   (C)   The Mayor and the Chief of Police shall have the authority to delegate
their power of supervision to other employees of the city, not limited to, but
including as well, police officers of the city. In order to carry out this
provision, the Police Department, and any and all officers therein, shall have
authority to make arrests in connection with the enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. 2013-19-11, passed 11-19-2013; Ord. 2023-
06-15, passed 6-15-2023)
§ 93.04 HOURS FOR CITY PARKS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   All city parks and recreational facilities, except as provided below,
shall be closed to the public between 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. It is unlawful
for a person to enter or remain in a city park at any time during these hours.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the following persons if in the park
or facility in the performance of their duties: peace officers, physicians,
ambulance operators/attendants, employees of the city or park and facilities
maintenance personnel.
   (C)   The Mayor or his or her designate may grant permission to extend the
closing hours to persons, groups or organizations.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 93.05 USE OF PARK FACILITIES FOR PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PURPOSES.
   (A)   The only area of the Allan Bates Park that may be reserved is the area
located to the immediate right of the entrance between the swings and parking
lot cable.
   (B)   An exclusive use permit is required for public or private reservation
of the city’s park space determined in division (A) above. The application must
include the following:
      (1)   An agreement under which the permit holder will pay in full,
promptly upon receipt of an invoice the costs of repair for any damage to
public or private property resulting from, or in connection with, the event
permit, if the producer has not fully repaired or restored the property to its
condition prior to the event, or to better than that condition;
      (2)   The costs of repair for any damage to public or private property
resulting from, or in connection with, the permit, if the permit holder has not
fully repaired or restored the property to its condition prior to the filming,
or to better than that condition;
      (3)   An agreement, on a form provided by the city, under which the
guarantor will hold harmless, indemnify and defend the city and its officers,
agents and employees from and against all claims that may arise in connection
with the event; and
      (4)   A credit authorization form as a deposit $100 for failure to
maintain §
93.05(D).
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the schedule of fees and charges for
the utilization of park and recreational facilities by private individuals or
groups, as well as for the electric consumption. The current fee for such usage
by city residents is set at $25 and non-city residents is set at $75.
Additionally, it is prohibited to utilize water resources in these facilities.
   (D)   All park and recreational facilities must be left in as good a
condition or better than before the use by any person or group.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. 2023-06-15, passed 6-15-2023)
§ 93.06 DISRUPTIVE CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for a person to:
   (A)   Intentionally or knowingly interfere with, disrupt or prevent the
orderly conduct of any exclusive use permit being conducted by the city in any
city park;
   (B)   Recklessly engage in disruptive, destructive or violent conduct which
endangers public property, health or safety of the public utilizing the
facility;
   (C)   Intentionally or knowingly make unreasonable noise in a public place
or to use electronic equipment, including speakers, at a volume which emits
sound 65 continuous decibels at the site of the complaint;
   (D)   Take, remove, destroy, deface, tamper with or disturb any artifact or
cultural feature or to take, remove or disturb any rock, soil, gem, mineral,
fossil or other geological deposit from or in any city park;
   (E)   Use a metal detector in a city park;
   (F)   Willfully pick, pull, pull up, tear up, dig up or out, mutilate,
break, bruise, injure, burn, remove, carry away or destroy any tree, shrub,
plant, vine, flower, moss or vegetation, or portion thereof, including but not
limited to leaf, moss, foliage, berries, fruit, grass, turf, humus, cones, dead
or downed wood, from or in a city park; or
   (G)   Fail or refuse to leave a park after being ordered to do so by a peace
officer or city personnel, or to return to a park during the time when the
person was ordered to leave and remain outside the park.
   (H)   Purposely place a canopy or obstacle in the navigable passage way of
the river.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. 2023-06-15, passed 6-15-2023) Penalty, see
§
93.99
§ 93.07 CARE AND CUSTODY OF MINOR CHILDREN.
   It is unlawful for the parent, guardian or person in custody of any child 12
years old or younger to allow the child to enter any city park unless the child
is accompanied by a person at least 18 years of age or older.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. 2023-06-15, passed 6-15-2023)  Penalty,
see §
93.99
§ 93.08 TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate or park a motor vehicle,
recreational vehicle, all-terrain vehicle or motorcycle in any city park except
in designated parking or operation areas. Parking areas are restricted to
persons using the city park.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to peace officers, physicians, fire and
rescue personnel, ambulance operators/attendants, employees of the city and
park maintenance personnel.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 93.09 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It is unlawful for any person to possess or consume any alcoholic beverages
in any city park.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 GLASS BEVERAGE CONTAINERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to exhibit, use, carry or dispose of glass
beverage containers in any city park.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 (RESERVED).
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 93.25 FIRES, FIREWORKS, FIREARMS AND SMOKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in a city park to build or attempt
to build a fire except in designated cooking grills either provided by the city
or privately owned and brought to a city park for use.
   (B)   No person shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches,
burning cigarettes, cigars, tobacco paper or other inflammable material.
   (C)   All types of fireworks and firearms are prohibited.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks and explosives, see
Ch. 132
§ 93.26 ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person exercising ownership, care, custody or
control of any animal to allow the animal to run at large in any city park. All
pets must be on a leash.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person exercising ownership, care, custody or
control of any animal to allow the animal to soil city park grounds without
immediately picking up and properly disposing of the droppings.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 TRASH AND LITTERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, deposit, place or drop
loose paper, cans, plastic bottles, sacks, boxes, cloths, waste materials or
any kind of rubbish on the ground within any park.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit any garbage,
trash or refuse that was not generated within a city park in any trash
receptacle of a city park.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.28 BICYCLES.
   Bicycles shall not be ridden in any city park except where authorized by
signs.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.29 SWIMMING.
   Swimming is allowed in city parks; however, individuals swim at their own
risk as the city does not provide for lifeguards.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.30 HUNTING, FISHING AND CAMPING.
   It is unlawful for a person in any city park to:
   (A)   Hunt, harm, harasses, disturb, trap, confine, catch, possess or remove
wildlife;
   (B)   Release any fish, bait-fish, plant or other aquatic organism into the
waters;
   (C)   Fish, grapple or catch and release, in an area where fishing is
prohibited by sign;
   (D)   Collect or gather wood;
   (E)   Use any water or drinking fountain pool, sprinkler, reservoir, lake,
river or any other water body in the park for the purpose of washing or
cleaning pets, themselves, their clothing or other personal belongings; or
   (F)   Deposit wastewater, sewage or effluent from sinks, toilets or other
plumbing fixtures upon or into the grounds or waters.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.31 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   It is unlawful for a person within any city park to:
   (A)   Announce, advertise or call the public's attention in any way to any
article or service for sale or hire;
   (B)   Announce, advertise or call the public's attention in any way to any
political candidate, political proposition or in any way try to solicit votes
or voters; or
   (C)   Paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any signs, placard, advertisement
or inscription whatsoever nor shall any person erect or cause to be erected any
sign whatsoever on any park land.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.32 COMMERCIALIZATION ACTIVITIES.
   It is unlawful for anyone to sell or offer to sell any goods, wares,
services or merchandise of any kind in a city park except by authority of an
approved concession contract or permit properly issued by the city and approved
by the City Council.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.33 STORED OR ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to abandon, store or leave a vehicle, boat,
trailer or other personal property in a city park. Any vehicle, boat, trailer
or other personal property found in violation of this section may be removed
and stored at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.34 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   The Mayor or City Council may, in order to protect the public's
health, safety or welfare, or preserve city park resources, impose temporary
restrictions on the use of city parks and facilities.
   (B)   Employees of the city, peace officers and emergency personnel are
exempt from these rules to the extent these rules conflict with the discharge
of their official duties.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person found guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount not to exceed
$500. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to seek all appropriate legal recourse
by way of injunctive or other appropriate relief in addition to any other
penalties and enforcement provided in this section.
(Ord. 08-348, passed 5-13-2008)
CHAPTER 94: SAN MARCOS RIVER PROTECTION
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Coolers and disposable containers
 
   
94.99   Culpable mental state; penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTAINER. A bottle, can, or another receptacle.
   COOLER. An insulated container for keeping food and drinks cool.
   DISPOSABLE CONTAINER. A receptacle designed to be used once and thrown away.
For the purposes of this division, disposable containers include but are not
limited to, metal, and aluminum cans, glass containers, Styrofoam cups and
containers, cardboard containers, paper sacks, boxes, paper napkins and towels,
and plastic containers and utensils.
   OPEN CONTAINER. A container that is open, that has been opened, that has a
broken seal, or the contents of which are fully or partially removed.
(Ord. 2018-12-04-01, passed 12-4-2018)
§ 94.02 COOLERS AND DISPOSABLE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to use, carry or possess or dispose of
a cooler that has a capacity greater than 16 quarts on any portion of the San
Marcos River within the city limits of the city. All coolers used, carried and
possessed shall be secured by a zipper, Velcro snap, mechanical latch or bungee
cord to prevent the contents of the cooler from falling out of the cooler.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to use, carry or possess beverages in
a disposable container on or in the public waters of the San Marcos River in
the city limits, and each person shall be limited to one cooler in accordance
with division (A) of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to dispose of any container into the
waters or banks of the San Marcos River in the city limits, unless it is
disposed of into a properly authorized and placed trash receptacle.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to use, carry, possess or dispose of
an open container with a volume capacity of five fluid ounces or less on or in
the public waters of the portions of the San Marcos River in the city limits.
(Ord. 2018-12-04-01, passed 12-4-2018)
§ 94.99 CULPABLE MENTAL STATE; PENALTY.
   (A)   In order to violate any portion of this
Chapter 94 the person must have acted “recklessly”.
   (B)   Any violation of
Chapter 94 is punishable by fine of not less than $1 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 2018-12-04-01, passed 12-4-2018)
CHAPTER 95: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Enforcement of chapter
   
95.03   Running at large prohibited
   
95.04   Vaccination of dogs and cats; certificate required
   
95.05   Impoundment and violation notice
   
95.06   Animal adoptions
   
95.07   Animal care
   
95.08   Nuisance prohibited
   
95.09   Keeping of wild or vicious animals
   
95.10   Control of vicious animals
   
95.11   Dogs that are a danger to persons
   
95.12   Sanitary conditions
   
95.13   Reports of contagious disease, exposure to rabies and quarantine
procedures
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Every non-human species, both domestic and wild.
   ANIMAL ABANDONMENT. To leave an animal helpless without protection, food or
water without intending to return.
   ANIMAL CONTROL. The animal agency designated by the Martindale City Council.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person or agency designated by the city who is
qualified to perform such duties as required by this chapter and/or state law.
   ANIMAL AT LARGE. Any animal not under the restraint (as defined in this
section) of a person capable of controlling the animal on or off the premises
of the owner.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by a humane society, or governmental
agency or its authorized agents, that legally impounds stray, homeless,
abandoned or unwanted animals for care, confinement, return to owner, adoption
or euthanasia.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. A dog that is specially trained to assist a person with a
physical challenge.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold, or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this chapter. This
definition does not apply to individual sales of animals by owners.
   BITE. The puncturing or tearing of the skin by an animal's teeth.
   BOARD. The Texas Board of Health.
   CAT (FELIS CATUS). A domestic feline of either sex.
   CIRCUS. A commercial variety show featuring animal acts for public
entertainment.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, grooming shop, guard dog or
obedience training center, animal auction, riding school or stable, zoological
park, circus, performing animal exhibition, or boarding or breeding kennel.
   CURRENTLY VACCINATED. Vaccinated and satisfying the following criteria:
      (1) The animal must have been at least three months of age at the time of
vaccination;
      (2) At least 30 days have elapsed since the initial vaccination;
      (3) Not more than 12 months have elapsed since the most recent
vaccination.
   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
      (1)   Makes an unprovoked attack on a person that causes bodily injury
and occurs in a place other than an enclosure in which the dog was being kept
and that was reasonably certain to prevent the dog from leaving the enclosure
on its own; or
      (2) Commits unprovoked acts in a place other than an enclosure in which
the dog was being kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the dog from
leaving the enclosure on its own and those acts cause a person to reasonably
believe that the dog will attack and cause bodily injury to that person.
   DANGEROUS WILD ANIMALS. Includes the following animals as listed in HB1362,
effective September 1, 2001, bobcat, baboon, bear, caracal, chimpanzee,
cheetah, cougar, coyote, gorilla, hyena, jackal, jaguar, lion, leopard, lynx,
ocelot, orangutan, serval, tiger, or any hybrid of a listed animal.
   DOG (CANIS FAMILIARIS). A domestic canine of either sex.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Tame, domesticated, of or pertaining to the family or
household.
   EUTHANASIA. To humanely cause the death of animal by a method which:
      (1)   Rapidly produces unconsciousness and death without visible evidence
of pain or distress; or
      (2)   Utilizes anesthesia produced by an agent, which causes painless
loss of consciousness and death following such loss of consciousness.
   FERAL. Relating to or suggestive of wild, no longer domesticated.
   FOWL. A bird of any kind, to include domestic cock or hen.
   GUARD DOG.  Any professionally trained dog that will detect and warn its
handler that an intruder is present in or near an area that is being secured.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The collecting and confining of an animal because of breech in
state, county or city ordinance.
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. A veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary
medicine in the State of Texas.
   LIVESTOCK. Domestic animals used or raised on a farm, especially those kept
for a profit; specifically, horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, cattle, goats,
rabbits, sheep and swine, regardless of age, sex or breed.
   LOCAL RABIES AUTHORITY. A person appointed by the municipality. The
supervisor of animal control shall serve as the local rabies authority.
   OBSERVATION PERIOD. The ten days following a bite incident during which the
biting animal's health status must be monitored. The ten day observation period
will begin on the day of the bite incident.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation having title to any
animal; or a person who has, harbors, or keeps or who causes or permits an
animal to remain on or about his/her premises. An animal shall be deemed to be
harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three consecutive days or more.
   PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITION. Any spectacle, display, act, or event,
otherthan circuses, in which performing animals are used. This shall include
animal amusement vendors such as, but not limited to, pony-go-round rides,
commercial horseback pictures, etc.
   PERMANENTLY IDENTIFIED. Any animal that has a legible tattoo or microchip.
   PET or COMPANION ANIMAL.  Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility;
an animal of a species that has been bred and raised to live in or about the
habitation of humans and is dependent on people for food and shelter.
   POLICE DOG. A domestic dog that is owned or employed by a governmental law
enforcement agency.
   POSSIBLE EXPOSURE TO RABIES. The receipt of a bite or scratch from any warm-
blooded animal (animal to human or animal to animal) and is reason to suspect
exposure to rabies.
   PROVOCATION. Any purposeful act that causes an animal to bite, scratch, or
attack in protection of self, owner, or owner's premises. Entrance, except as
below, into an area where an animal is properly under restraint in compliance
with city ordinances shall be considered provocation, irrespective of the
reason for such entrance. Entrance into an area by city personnel, to include
but not limited to, meter readers, police, emergency personnel, etc; and other
utility services, shall not be deemed as provocation.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.  Any animal or animals that unreasonably annoy humans,
endanger the life or health of other animals or persons, or substantially
interfere with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment of
life or property. The term "public nuisance animal" shall mean and include, but
is not limited to:
      (1)   The keeping of any animal which, by causing frequent or long
continued barking or noise, shall disturb any person of ordinary sensibilities,
in the vicinity;
      (2)   The keeping of any animal in such a manner as to endanger the
public health; to annoy-neighbors by the accumulation of animal wastes which
cause foul and offensive odors; or are considered to be a hazard to any other
animal or human being; or by continued presence on the premises;
      (3)   All animal pens, stables or enclosures in which any animal may be
kept or confined which, from the use or disuse have become offensive to a
person of ordinary sensibilities.
      (4)   Any animal that chases vehicles;
      (5)   Any animal that is offensive or dangerous to the public health,
safety, or welfare; or
      (6)   Any animal that attacks other domestic animals.
   QUARANTINE. Strict confinement of an animal for observation:
      (1)   On the private premises of the animal's owner or at a facility
approved by animal control; and
      (2)   Under restraint by closed cage or padlock or in any other manner
approved by animal control.
   RABIES. An acute viral disease of human and animal affecting the central
nervous system and usually transmitted by an animal bite.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is secured by a leash or lead and under the control of
a responsible person and obedient to that person's commands. At all other
times, a dog or other such animal shall be confined to the realty or premises
of the owner by a substantial fence of sufficient strength and height to
prevent such dog or other animal from escaping therefrom; or inside a house on
such premises; or secured on such premises by a leash consisting of material of
sufficient strength to prevent such dog or other animal from escaping from such
premises.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Not completely confined by building, wall, or fence of
sufficient strength or construction to restrain the animal except when such
animal is either on a leash or held in the hands of the owner or keeper.
   SCRATCH. A scrape left by the claws or nails of an animal and of sufficient
severity so as to break the skin and draw blood.
   SECURED ENCLOSURE. A fenced area or structure that is:
      (1)   Locked;
      (2)   Capable of preventing the entry of the general public, including
children;
      (3)   Capable of preventing the escape or release of a dog;
      (4)   Clearly marked as containing a dangerous dog;
      (5)   Being at least six feet in height.
   SICK ANIMAL. Any animal that appears to be suffering from an infectious,
contagious, or communicable disease; or that is showing evidence of a physical
injury, physical disorder, or traumatic injury; or that has an elevated
temperature.
   STRAY. Any animal running free or at large, with no physical or verbal
restraint beyond the premises of an animal's owner or keeper.
   SUPERVISOR OF ANIMAL CONTROL. The person or agency designated by the City
Council to oversee all aspects of animal control.
   TETHERING. Using a chain, rope, tether, leash, cable or other device to
attach a dog to a stationary object or trolley system. The minimum length of
such device is ten feet from the animal to the stationary object. The allowed
use of tethering as a form of animal control by owners is temporary and will
expire on January 1, 2022. After January 1, 2022 tethering will not be allowed
within the city.
   UNOWNED ANIMAL. Any animal for which an owner has not been identified.
   UNALTERED. Any animal that has not been sterilized.
   VACCINATED Properly injected with a rabies vaccine licensed for use for the
subject species by the United States Department of Agriculture and administered
by or under the direct supervision of a licensed veterinarian.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that attacks, bites, or injures human beings or
domesticated animals without provocation, or which because of temperament,
conditioning, or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite, or injure
human beings or domesticated animals; or an individual animal which local
authority has reason to believe has a dangerous disposition, likely to be
harmful to humans or other animals.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal except the common domestic species (including, but
not limited to dogs, cats, horses, cattle, swine, sheep, and goats), regardless
of the state or duration of captivity.
   WILD STATE. Living in its original, natural condition; not domesticated.
   WILDLIFE. Any animal that occurs naturally in the wild state.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK. Any facility operated by a person, partnership,
corporation, or government agency, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying
or exhibiting one or more species of non-domesticated animals.
   ZOONOSIS. A disease of animals that may be transmitted to humans.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004; Ord. 2020-03-10, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 95.02 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the
Supervisor of Animal Control, his/her designee, or a police officer.
   (B)   Any animal control officer or police officer shall have the authority
to issue citations for any violations of this chapter. If the person being
cited is not present, the animal control officer may send the citation to the
alleged offender by registered or certified mail.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with any animal
control officer in the performance of his/her duties.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004)
§ 95.03 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any domestic species except domestic cats and
fowls possessed, kept or harbored to run at large, as defined in §
95.01 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Supervisor of Animal Control, his/her designee or a police officer
is authorized to impound domestic animals except for domestic cats running at
large.
   (C)   The Supervisor of Animal Control, his/her designee or a police officer
is authorized to impound cats (domestic or feral) running at large when the cat
is creating a nuisance as defined in §
95.01.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004; Ord. 2020-03-10, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 95.04 VACCINATION OF DOGS AND CATS; CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, or have
custody or control of a dog or cat over four months of age within the city
limits unless such dog or cat is currently vaccinated against rabies by the
injection of antirabies vaccine by or under direct supervision of a licensed
veterinarian. The dog or cat will be considered currently vaccinated if:
      (1)   A second rabies vaccination shall be administered to all cats and
dogs within one year of receiving their first vaccination regardless of the
type of the vaccine used or at what age the animal was initially vaccinated.
      (2)   If the animal has received at least two vaccinations and the last
vaccination consisted of:
         (a)   An annual rabies vaccine, the animal must receive a vaccination
within 12 months;
         (b)   A triennial vaccine, the animal must receive a vaccination
within 36 months.
      (3)   If the animal has received at least two vaccinations prior to this
amendment and a triennial vaccine was used for the last vaccination, this
amendment is retroactive, the animal's next vaccination will be due within 36
months from the date of its last vaccination.
   (B) Every owner of a dog or cat immunized against rabies as required in this
section shall procure a rabies vaccination certificate from the veterinarian
administering the vaccine. Such certificates shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Owner's name, address, and telephone number;
      (2)   The species, sex, age, weight, predominant breed, and color of the
animal;
      (3)   The vaccine used, manufacturer and serial number;
      (4)   Date vaccinated;
      (5)   Rabies tag number; and
      (6)   Veterinarian's signature and license number.
   (C)   A veterinarian or person under the direct supervision of a
veterinarian who vaccinates a dog or cat as required in this section shall
furnish the owner thereof with a metal tag approved by the rabies control
officer bearing a number corresponding to the number placed on the certificate,
and with lettering showing immunization and the year thereof. This tag shall be
attached to the properly fitted collar of the dog or cat for which it is issued
or the owner must produce the certificate.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004)
§ 95.05 IMPOUNDMENT AND VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   For purposes of discharging the duties imposed by the provisions of
this chapter or other applicable laws, and to enforce such provisions, duly
authorized representatives or employees (being those described in §
95.02(A)) may enter upon private property to the full extent permitted by law,
which shall include but not be limited to entry upon private, fenced property
when in pursuit of any animal which they have reason to believe is subject to
impoundment pursuant to the provision of this chapter or other applicable laws.
The following animals may be impounded:
      (1)   Cats and dogs not exhibiting evidence of being vaccinated as
described in this chapter;
      (2)   Any animal infected or kept under conditions which could endanger
the public or animal health;
      (3)   Any animal that creates a nuisance as described in §
95.01;
      (4)   Any domestic species except for cats running at large as described
in §
95.01, definitions;
      (5)   Any animal treated in a manner determined by the animal control
officer to be cruel or inhumane;
      (6)   Any animal that has bitten a human being or needs to be placed
under observation for rabies determination, (as determined by an animal control
officer); and
      (7)   Any animal violating any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Reasonable effort shall be made by an animal control officer to
contact the owner of any animal impounded; however, final responsibility for
location of an impounded animal is that of the owner.
   (C)   Impoundment fees must be paid for capture of any animal.
   (D)   If any of the animals named in this section are found upon the
premises of any person, the owner or occupant of the premises shall have the
right to confine such animal in a humane manner until he/she can notify the
animal control officerto come and impound such animal. When so notified, it
shall be the duty of the animal control officerto have such animal impounded as
herein provided.
   (E)   The owner can resume possession of any impounded animal upon payment
of impoundment fees, boarding fees, and any medically necessary veterinarian
bills incurred by animal control for the welfare of the animal to alleviate
immediate suffering, and upon compliance with vaccination provisions of this
Code, except where prohibited in divisions (F) and (G) of this section.
   (F)   Disposition of animals impounded on the grounds of cruel or inhumane
treatment shall be determined by the Animal Control Supervisor or animal
control officer or court of competent jurisdiction.
   (G)   If any animal is being held under quarantine or observation for
rabies, the owner shall not be entitled to possession until it has been
released from quarantine.
   (H)   the City Council shall select and establish a place for impounding all
animals impounded under any provision of this chapter.
   (I)   Any nursing baby animal impounded without the mother, or where the
mother cannot or refuses to provide nutritious milk, may be immediately
euthanized to prevent further suffering.
   (J)   Any impounded vicious or wild animal, unless there is reason to
believe that it has an owner, may be immediately disposed of as may be deemed
appropriate by the Supervisor of Animal Control or his/her designee. Feral
cats, dogs, or other animals may be euthanatized at the discretion of the
animal control officer.
   (K)   Any licensed impounded cat or dog shall be kept for not fewer than
seven days unless sooner reclaimed by their owner, except under quarantine.
   (L)   Any unlicensed impounded cats, dogs, or other domestic animals shall
be kept for not fewer than three days unless sooner reclaimed by their owner,
except under quarantine.
   (M)   Sick or injured and suffering animals may be euthanized at the
discretion of the animal control officer or animal shelter staff under the
direction and control of the animal control officer.
   (N)   An owner who no longer wishes responsibility for an animal, or
believes the animal to be in ill or injured condition, may sign a written
waiver supplied by animal control designating owner release allowing the animal
to be immediately placed up for adoption or euthanized in a humane manner. If
the animal is unvaccinated and has bitten a human being, the animal may be
euthanized before expiration of the ten-day quarantine period and its head sent
off for testing. A fee is collected for owner release animals.
   (O)   If, by a license tag or other means, the owner of an impounded animal
can be identified, the animal control officer shall, as soon as practical, upon
impoundment notify the owner by direct contact, telephone, mail, or other
reasonable means.
   (P)   In addition to, or in lieu of, impounding an animal found at large,
the Animal Control Supervisor, his/her designee or a police officer may issue
to the known owner of such animal a notice of ordinance violation. A person who
is convicted of owning an animal at large shall pay a fine as listed in the
penalty schedule of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004)
§ 95.06 ANIMAL ADOPTIONS.
   The Supervisor of Animal Control will establish all guidelines, availability
and fees associated with all animal adoptions.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004)
§ 95.07 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide his animals with sufficient wholesome
and nutritious food, water in sufficient quantities, adequate ventilation,
shelter space and protection from the weather, veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering, and humane care and treatment.
   (B)   No person shall beat, cruelly treat, torment, overload, overwork,
otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate, or permit any instigated
cockfight, bullfight, or other combat between animals or between animals and
humans.
   (C)   No owner of an animal shall abandon such animal. If an owned animal
has been impounded by the animal control officer, no owner shall allow the
animal to remain in the animal shelter beyond the seven day maximum for a
licensed or three day maximum for a unlicensed animal, for the purpose of
adopting the animal at a lower cost than the fine and fee(s).
   (D)   It is hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully abandon any animal or to withhold food or water from any animal such
that its health is endangered or to treat the animal in such a way that it
suffers unduly
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004)
§ 95.08 NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   Maintaining a public nuisance shall be considered unlawful as described in §
95.01. The following specific actions are prohibited.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor more than
five dogs over three months of age at any one address or location within the
city limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor more than
12 chickens or other domestic fowl over three months of age at any one address
or location within the city limits.
   (C)   All person residing in the city who own one or more dogs must keep
such dog or dogs at the residential premises permanently occupied and inhabited
by said dog owner. It shall be unlawful for said dog owner to keep their dogs
at any other locations within the city limits. Animals found at a property
where an owner does not reside will be considered abandoned and subject to
impoundment.
   (D)   Divisions (A), (B) and (C) above shall not apply to animal shelters,
veterinary establishments, animal hospitals operated by a licensed veterinarian
or commercial animal establishments located on property zoned for such
purposes. Such establishments, however, must meet sanitation requirements and
keep animals securely caged or penned.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004; Ord. 2020-03-10, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 95.09 KEEPING OF WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to release or allow to run at large any wild or
vicious animals inside the city.
   (B)   The keeping of pigs, hogs, swine or any member of the Suidae family in
the city limits by any person shall be prohibited.
   (C)   The keeping of a dangerous wild animal as described in §
95.01, Definitions, shall be prohibited.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004)
§ 95.10 CONTROL OF VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any vicious animal found running at large may be destroyed by any
peace officer or animal control officer in the interest of public safety.
   (B)   The supervisor of animal control may order any owner or person having
care, control, or custody of any vicious animal to take such animal permanently
from the city. This animal must be removed immediately following receipt of
such an order, even if an appeal is initiated. This order may be appealed in
writing within ten days to the municipal judge. The municipal judge may uphold,
reverse, or modify the Supervisor of Animal Control's order, and may stipulate
restrictions on the animal as a condition to allowing the animal to remain in
the city. The municipal judge shall have final authority on all matters. If the
municipal judge upholds the Animal Control Supervisor’s order, the owner or
person having care, control or custody of such animal shall not bring the
animal back inside the city limits.
   (C)   If the owner or person having care, custody or control of a vicious
animal fails to remove such animal as provided for in divisions (A) and (B) of
this section, such animal may be impounded and/or destroyed.
   (D)   The owner or person having care, custody or control of a vicious
animal must report the disposition and relocation of such animal to the
Supervisor of Animal Control, in writing, within ten days after the expiration
date for removal of such animal from the city. Each day thereafter if such
information is not provided it shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   The Supervisor of Animal Control shall be authorized to obtain a
search and seizure warrant if there is reason to believe that an animal ordered
removed from the city for being vicious has not been so removed.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004)
§ 95.11 DOGS THAT ARE A DANGER TO PERSONS.
   (A)   If a person reports an incident involving a dangerous dog as defined
in §
95.01, the Supervisor of Animal Control or designee shall have the authority to
investigate the incident.
   (B)   If, after receiving the sworn statements of any witnesses, the animal
control authority determines the dog is a dangerous dog, the owner will be
notified of that fact.
   (C)   The city will comply with the V.T.C.A. Health and Safety Code, title
10, Health and Safety of Animals, chapter 822.0422, relating to the reporting
of a dangerous dog.
   (D)   If there is a determination pursuant to chapter 822 of the Texas
Health and Safety Code that there is a dangerous dog, as defined in §
95.01, then the owner of said dog, shall, in addition to the requirements of
section 822.042, be required, within 30 days, to have erected a secured
enclosure for said dog, as defined in §
95.01.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004)
§ 95.12 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The owner or person in possession of animals shall keep yards, pens
and enclosures in which such animals are confined in such a manner so as not to
give off odors offensive to persons of ordinary sensibilities residing in the
vicinity; to breed or attract flies, mosquitoes, or other noxious insects; or
in any manner to endanger the public health or safety, or create a public
nuisance.
   (B)   It is a violation of this chapter if an owner of an animal, either
willfully or through failure to exercise care and control, allow a dog or other
domesticated or pet animal to urinate or defecate upon the sidewalk or parkway
or any public street, or upon the floor of any common hall or entranceway or
stairway, or upon any wall or any public place or building or public park and
any private property not of the owner, if the owner of the defecating animal
fails to remediate or clean up the waste deposited by the animal.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004; Ord. 2020-03-10, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 95.13 REPORTS OF CONTAGIOUS DISEASE, EXPOSURE TO RABIES AND QUARANTINE
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Supervisor of Animal Control or designee shall have the authority
to order the quarantine of animals responsible for bite incidents or suspected
of having any zoonotic disease that is considered to be a hazard to the human
population or other animals.
   (B)   Any animal that bites a human or attacks another animal in an
unnatural manner or has rabies or any other zoonotic disease shall be
immediately confined by the owner, who shall notify animal control of the place
where such animal is confined and the reason therefore. The owner shall not
permit such animal to come in contact with any other person or animal. The
owner shall surrender possession of an animal that:
      (1)   Is reported to be rabid or to have exposed an individual to rabies;
      (2)   The owner knows or suspects is rabid or has exposed an individual
to rabies; or
      (3)   The owner is unable to produce certification of current rabies
vaccination.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004)
§ 95.14 PENALTY.
   (A)   The first violation of any of the provisions of this chapter with the
exception of §
95.10 (Control of vicious animal) and §
95.11 (Dogs that are a danger to persons) will be assessed a warning citation.
   (B)   Any violation following a documented warning of this chapter with the
exception of §
95.10 (Control of vicious animals) and §
95.11 (Dogs that are a danger to persons) shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor, and upon convictions shall be fined a sum of $250, and each and
every day's violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
Subsequent convictions for any violation of this chapter shall be fined an
amount of $500.
   (C)   The first violation of §
95.10 (Control of vicious animals) or §
95.11 (Dogs that are a danger to persons) shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined a sum of $250, and each and
every day's violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
Subsequent convictions for any violation of this chapter shall be fined an
amount of $500.
   (D)   If a person is convicted of violating any penal law regarding animal
care, such a person's privilege and license to own, keep, harbor, or have
custody of animals shall be deemed automatically revoked upon conviction. If a
person is convicted of a violation of this chapter regarding animal care, the
judge of the municipal court may order, as part of the judgment, a period of
time may pass before the person may apply for any new or renewed such privilege
or license.
   (E)   A complaint or information for any Class C misdemeanor may be
presented within two years from the date of the commission of the offense, and
not afterward.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2004; Ord. 2020-03-10, passed 3-10-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   UTILITIES; STREET RENTAL
         
111.   ITINERANT VENDORS
         
112.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
         
113.   FILMING
         
114.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: UTILITIES; STREET RENTAL
Section
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Application
   
110.03   Rental charges
   
110.04   Sworn report
   
110.05   Records
   
110.06   Receipt
   
110.07   Use of streets and the like
   
110.08   Cancellation of privileges
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FACILITIES. Includes duct spaces, manholes, lines, wires, cables, fibers,
poles, conduits, pipes, valves, switches, passageways, and other equipment,
structures, plant, appurtenances, and transmission media.
   UTILITY SERVICE. Includes the provision of electric, telecommunications,
cable television, natural gas, water, or wastewater service.
(Ord. 83-1003, passed 3-28-1983)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter will apply to any person that provides
utility service in the city and installs, places, operates or maintains
facilities in, on, over or under the public rights-of-way. If such a person has
a current franchise agreement with the city, however, the provisions of that
agreement will control over any conflicting provisions in this chapter.
§ 110.03 RENTAL CHARGES.
   Not later than March 1 of each year, every person that provides utility
service in the city and installs, places, operates or maintains facilities in,
on, over or under the public rights-of-way shall, as a condition to further
occupancy, pay to the city annually a rental fee equal to 2% of the gross
receipts received by the person, association, organization or corporation from
its business conducted in the city for the preceding calendar year.
(Ord. 83-1003, passed 3-28-1983) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 SWORN REPORT.
   Each person to which this chapter applies shall, not later than March 1 of
each year, file with the City Secretary a sworn report showing the gross
receipts from the business conducted by the person or within the corporate
limits of the city for the preceding calendar year.
(Ord. 83-1003, passed 3-28-1983) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 RECORDS.
   The City Council may, when it sees fit, have the books and records of any
person to which this chapter applies examined by a representative of the city
to ascertain whether a report filed by the person in accord with §
110.04 above is accurate. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent
the city from ascertaining the accuracy of a report by any other method.
(Ord. 83-1003, passed 3-28-1983) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 RECEIPT.
   Upon receipt of the rental charge imposed by this chapter, the City
Secretary shall deliver to the person paying the same a receipt therefor, which
receipt shall authorize that person to use and occupy the public rights-of-way
in the city in carrying on its business for the current calendar year.
(Ord. 83-1003, passed 3-28-1983)
§ 110.07 USE OF STREETS AND THE LIKE.
   The rental charge provided for in this chapter is not charged as a tax, but
is made for the privilege enjoyed by the persons upon whom it is imposed of
using the public rights-of-way in the city in the conduct of their businesses,
and the charge is additional to all ad valorem and franchise taxes and to all
taxes and fees of every other nature imposed on those persons.
(Ord. 83-1003, passed 3-28-1983)
§ 110.08 CANCELLATION OF PRIVILEGES.
   This chapter does not grant a franchise to any person to use the public
rights-of-way, and shall never be so construed by a court or otherwise. The
city reserves the right to cancel the privilege of a person granted under this
chapter.
(Ord. 83-1003, passed 3-28-1983)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person to which this chapter applies that fails to make full,
timely payment of the rental fees provided for in this chapter shall pay a
civil penalty of $100 for each day after the deadline that the person fails to
make payment. This sum may be recovered by the city in a court of competent
jurisdiction by a suit filed therein.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to which this chapter applies, and the
local manager or agent of that person, to fail to timely file the report
required by §
110.04 above, or to refuse to allow the examination provided for in §
110.05 above.
(Ord. 83-1003, passed 3-28-1983)
CHAPTER 111: ITINERANT VENDORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Purposes
   
111.03   Unlawful acts
   
111.04   Itinerant vendor registration
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOODS. Any form of tangible personal property.
   ITINERANT VENDOR.  A person engaged in the sale of goods or services who
does not reside in the city, and is not employed by a business that has a fixed
location within the city.
   SALE or  SELLING. Any exchange of money for goods or services, including
orders involving future payment or delivery.
   SERVICE or   SERVICES. The performance of work or labor, including work or
labor furnished in connection with the sale or repair of goods.
(Ord. 2014-1504, passed 4-15-2014)
§ 111.02 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are as follows:
   (A)   To establish a requirement for itinerant vendors to register with the
city and provide information about their business and background that will be
available to the public;
   (B)   To maintain records open to the public with information regarding
itinerant vendors; and
   (C)   To regulate the activities of itinerant vendors.
(Ord. 2014-1504, passed 4-15-2014)
§ 111.03 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for an itinerant vendor to go from house to house, or
from place to place, in the city without having first registered with the City
Clerk in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for an itinerant vendor, required to register under
this chapter, to refuse to show the person’s registration certificate issued
under this chapter to any person who requests it.
   (C)   It is unlawful for an itinerant vendor to engage in selling activities
at a private residence at any time between 30 minutes after sunset and 30
minutes before sunrise without prior invitation from an occupant of the
residence.
   (D)   It is unlawful for an itinerant vendor to engage in selling activities
upon premises where a sign is posted prohibiting such activities with wording
such as “NO SOLICITORS”.
(Ord. 2014-1504, passed 4-15-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 ITINERANT VENDOR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration under this chapter will be on a form provided by the City
Clerk containing at least the following information:
      (1)   The full name of the registrant;
      (2)   The registrant’s permanent home and business addresses;
      (3)   The name and address of the company, if any, which the registrant
represents;
      (4)   The registrant’s date of birth and driver’s license number;
      (5)   A detailed description of the goods or services to be offered by
the registrant;
      (6)   A description of any vehicle to be used by the registrant including
the make, color, and license plate state and number;
      (7)   If the sales involve taking orders for future delivery, the address
from which orders will be shipped, and the method of delivery;
      (8)   The number and date of issuance of the state sales tax permit under
which the registrant operates;
      (9)   Whether the registrant has ever been convicted of any felony, or
any form of fraud, theft, or other crime involving moral turpitude. If so, the
type of crime and date and place of conviction; and
      (10)   A statement under oath by the registrant that all information
provided on the registration form is true and correct.
   (B)   Registration shall be accompanied by a fee of $20.
   (C)   Upon filing of a completed registration form and payment of the
registration fee, the City Clerk will issue a registration certificate to the
registrant. The certificate may consist of a copy of the registration form that
includes the City Clerk’s notation of filing. The certificate will contain a
statement that the certificate in no way constitutes an endorsement of the
registrant’s activities.
   (D)   Registration under this section shall be valid for a period of three
months.
(Ord. 2014-1504, passed 4-15-2014)
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Enactment
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Intent and purposes
   
112.04   Location of businesses and signage
   
112.05   Exempt business
   
112.06   License required; application
   
112.07   Additional requirements for adult theaters
   
112.08   Enforcement and inspection
   
112.09   License suspension or revocation; hearing and appeal
   
112.10   Nonconforming uses and amortization
   
112.11   Unlawful acts
   
112.12   Injunction
   
112.13   Not to legalize state prohibitions
§ 112.01 ENACTMENT.
   The following regulations are hereby enacted and established as applicable
to the operation of sexually orientated businesses within the city.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning, or unless
the Zoning Chapter (
Chapter 155) indicates otherwise.
   ADULT ARCADE. A business which offers its customers, in one or more
enclosures designed for occupancy by up to five persons, still or motion
pictures characterized by depiction of sexual nudity or sexual activities.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A business in which a substantial
portion of the stock in trade consists of books, videos, tapes, cassettes,
photographs, slides, computer media or similar materials that emphasize the
depiction of sexual nudity or sexual activities.
   ADULT CABARET. A business which offers to customers live performances that
include the depiction of sexual nudity or sexual activities.
   ADULT MOTEL. A business which offers its customers a sleeping room for a
period of time less than ten hours and provides in the room still or motion
pictures that emphasize the depiction of sexual nudity or sexual activities.
Evidence that a sleeping room in an establishment has been rented and vacated
two or more times in a period of time that is less than ten hours creates a
rebuttable presumption that the establishment is an adult motel.
   ADULT THEATER. A business which offers its customers, in one or more areas
designated for occupancy by more than five persons, still or motion pictures
that emphasize the depiction of sexual nudity or sexual activities.
   CHURCH. A building in which persons regularly assemble to worship, intended
primarily for purposes connected with faith or for propagating a particular
form of religion.
   DETAILED DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A detailed development plan as defined in the
subdivision regulations (
Chapter 154) of the city as it may be amended from time to time.
   NUDE STUDIO. A business which offers its customers persons displaying sexual
nudity to be observed, drawn, sculpted or photographed by the customers.
   SCHOOL. A building where persons regularly assemble for the purpose of
preschool, primary, secondary or college instruction or education, together
with associated playgrounds, dormitories, stadia and other structures or
grounds or a child care facility licensed or registered with the state.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes each of the following:
      (1)   The erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks,
anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sexual acts, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated.
   SEXUAL NUDITY. The erotic display of a bare human buttock, pubic region,
genitals, anus, or female breast.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. A nude studio, adult bookstore, adult theater,
adult arcade, adult video store, adult motel or other commercial enterprise the
primary business of which is the offering of a service or the selling, renting
or exhibiting of devices or any other items intended to provide sexual
stimulation or sexual gratification to the customer. In determining the primary
business of an enterprise, the following factors will be considered:
      (1)   The portion of the floor area of the enterprise devoted to
services, devices, or items described above.
      (2)   The portion of merchandise display areas of the enterprise devoted
to services, devices, or items described above.
      (3)   The portion of the advertising or signage of the enterprise devoted
to services, devices, or items described above.
      (4)   The portion of the gross or net revenues of the enterprise devoted
to services, devices, or items described above.
      (5)   The portion of the employees of the enterprise who perform a
service described above.
If one or more of the factors is 50% or more for an enterprise, the test for
primary business of an enterprise is met.
   SPECIFIC USE PERMIT. A specific use permit issued through the process
established in the Zoning Chapter of the City Code (
Chapter 155) as it may be amended from time to time.
   STATE. The State of Texas.
   ZONING CHAPTER. The Zoning Chapter of the City Code (
Chapter 155) as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004)
§ 112.03 INTENT AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents
of the city; to protect and preserve the quality, property values and character
of the city; to prevent the concentration of sexually oriented businesses
within the city; and to minimize the potential negative impacts of sexually
oriented businesses on residential areas, churches, schools and public areas.
   (B)   It is expressly not the intent or effect of this chapter to impose a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Nor is it the intent or effect of this
chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials
protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and
exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market.
   (C)   It is the intent of the city that the regulations of this chapter are
promulgated pursuant to Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, §§ 243.001 et seq. (Municipal and
County Authority to Regulate Sexually Oriented Business) Tex. Loc. Gov't Code,
§§ 215.032, (Exhibitions; Shows; Amusements), and 215.033 (Licenses; Fees).
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004)
§ 112.04 LOCATION OF BUSINESSES AND SIGNAGE.
   (A)   The location of sexually oriented businesses is allowed in any
Industrial Zoning District, subject to the distance and licensing requirements
of this chapter, and applicable Zoning Chapter requirements. All references to
zoning districts are references to those districts established by the Zoning
Chapter.
   (B)   Each structure housing a sexually oriented business shall be located
at least 600 feet from any residentially-zoned property, or from any lot used
for church, school or park purposes, and at least 1,000 feet from any structure
housing a sexually oriented business. For the purposes of this section,
measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure
used as a part of the sexually oriented business to the nearest property line
of the a church, school, park or residential district.
   (C)   Each sexually oriented business shall comply with all of the city's
sign requirements and all requirements in the Zoning Chapter, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004)
§ 112.05 EXEMPT BUSINESS.
   The following are exempt from regulation under this chapter:
   (A)   A bookstore, movie theater or video store, unless that business is an
adult bookstore, adult movie theater or adult video store under the primary
business criteria in §
112.02 above;
   (B)   A business operated by or employing a licensed psychologist, licensed
physical therapist, licensed athletic trainer, licensed cosmetologist or
licensed barber engaged in performing functions authorized under the license
held;
   (C)   A business operated by or employing a licensed physician or licensed
chiropractor engaged in practicing the healing arts; and
   (D)   Any retail business whose primary business is offering wearing apparel
for sale to customers.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004)
§ 112.06 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   All sexually oriented businesses to be operated within the city
shall first obtain a valid license under the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   A license shall only be issued for sexually oriented businesses
that fulfill the locational and zoning requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   A business is not exempt from regulation under this chapter because
it holds a license or permit under the Alcoholic Beverage Code authorizing the
sale or service of alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   License display. A license issued under this chapter shall be
displayed at all times in an open and conspicuous place on the premises of the
sexually oriented business for which it was issued.
   (C)   License application.
      (1)   Any person desiring a license shall file a written application with
the City Secretary, on a form provided by the City Secretary. The application
shall set forth the following:
         (a)   The name of the applicant and whether the applicant is an
individual, general partnership, limited partnership, corporation or other
entity;
         (b)   The name under which the sexually oriented business is to be
operated and a general description of the services or products to be provided;
         (c)   The address and legal description of the parcel of land on which
the sexually oriented business is to be located;
         (d)   The name, resident address and telephone number of the manager
or other individual to be principals in charge of the operation of the sexually
oriented business;
         (e)   A sworn declaration that the information contained in the
application is true and correct; and
         (f)   If the applicant is an individual, the application shall be
signed and sworn to by the applicant. If the applicant is a partnership, the
application shall be signed and sworn to by all of the partners thereof. If the
applicant is a corporation or other entity, the application shall be signed and
sworn by the President of the corporation or entity.
      (2)   In addition, the application shall be accompanied by the following:
         (a)   Payment of the license fee, as provided in this chapter, and any
fees required by the Zoning Chapter;
         (b)   A certified copy of the Assumed Name Certificate filed in
compliance with the Assumed Business or Professional Name Act (Tex. Rev. Civ.
Stat. Business and Commerce Code, Ord. 36), if the applicant is to operate the
sexually oriented business under the assumed name;
         (c)   If the applicant is a state corporation, a certified copy of the
articles of incorporation, together with all amendments thereto;
         (d)   If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a certified copy of
the certificate of authority to transact business in the state, together with
all amendments thereto;
         (e)   If the applicant is a foreign or limited partnership, a
certified copy of the certificate of limited partnership, together with all
amendments thereto, filed in the Office of the Secretary of State;
         (f)   A complete list of persons employed by the sexually oriented
business, including their age, date of birth, and driver's license number. This
list shall be updated monthly by a verified report to the City Secretary,
listing all of the above information for any employees hired during the
previous month; and
         (g)   A detailed development plan which describes the dimensions and
location of the sexually oriented business and clearly shows it to be in
compliance with the locational requirements of this chapter and with the Zoning
Ordinance.
   (D)   License investigation and issuance.
      (1)   Upon receiving an application for a license, the City Secretary
shall conduct an investigation to determine whether the requirements of this
chapter have been satisfied and if the application complies with the zoning,
locational and sign requirements as set forth in this chapter. The City
Secretary shall deny the application for a license if any requirement of this
chapter is not satisfied.
      (2)   The City Secretary shall deny the application for a license if one
or more of the following is determined to be true:
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
         (b)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue in payment to
the city of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon
the applicant or the applicant's spouse in relation to the sexually oriented
business;
         (c)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
         (d)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of a
violation of a provision of this chapter, other than the offense of operating a
sexually oriented business without a license, within two years immediately
preceding the application; the fact that a conviction is being appealed shall
have no effect;
         (e)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
         (f)   An applicant has been employed in a sexually oriented business
in a managerial capacity within the preceding 12 months and has demonstrated an
inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented business premises in a
peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law enforcement
officers; and/or
         (g)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of a
crime:
            1.   Involving:
               a.   Any of the following offenses as described in the Tex.
Penal Code, Ch. 43; prostitution; promotion of prostitution; aggravated
promotion of prostitution; obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful
material to minors; sexual performance by a child; possession of child
pornography;
               b.   Any of the following offenses as described in Tex. Penal
Code, Ch. 21; public lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child;
               c.   Sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault as described in
Tex. Penal Code, Ch. 22;
               d.   Incest, solicitation of a child, or harboring a runaway
child as described in the Tex. Penal Code, Ch. 25; or
               e.   Criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any
of the foregoing offenses.
            2.   For which:
               a.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
               b.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
               c.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the
last conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within
any 24-month period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or applicant's spouse.
      (4)   An applicant who has been convicted or whose spouse has been
convicted of an offense listed in division (D)(2)(g) above may qualify for a
sexually oriented business license only when the time required by that division
has elapsed.
      (5)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the address of
the sexually oriented business. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may
be easily read at any time.
      (6)   The City Secretary shall notify each applicant of his or her
eligibility for a license within 20 days of receipt of the completed
application. If the applicant complies with the provisions of this chapter,
then the City Secretary shall issue a license. In the event that an applicant
fails to comply with this chapter, then the applicant shall be so notified and
be entitled to a hearing held pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   License fee. To defray the cost of processing the license application,
the applicant shall pay a fee in the amount of $100. No portion of any fee
collected under this section shall be returned once the application process has
begun. To defray the cost of processing renewal license application, the
applicant shall pay a fee in the amount of $50.
   (F)   License transfer. A license shall not be transferred to another, nor
shall a license holder operate a sexually oriented business under the authority
of a license at any place other than the address designated in the application.
   (G)   License expiration and renewal. Each license shall be effective when
issued and shall be renewable annually upon filing an application as provided
for in this chapter. All licenses are renewable on the anniversary date of each
year succeeding the year in which they are first issued.
   (H)   License suspension and revocation.
      (1)   The Mayor, or the Mayor's designee, is granted, and shall have the
power to suspend any and all licenses authorized by this chapter, if he or she
determines that a licensee or employee of a license has:
         (a)   Violated or is not in compliance with any provision of this
chapter;
         (b)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the
sexually oriented business premises;
         (c)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
         (d)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually
oriented business premises; or
         (e)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
      (2)   The Mayor, or the Mayor's designee, is granted, and shall have the
power to revoke any and all licenses authorized by this chapter, if he or she
determines that:
         (a)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the City Secretary during the application process;
         (b)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use
or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
         (c)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually
oriented business during a period of time when the licensee's license was
suspended;
         (d)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense, listed in an
earlier section of this chapter, for which the time period required in that
section has not elapsed;
         (e)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed in an earlier section of this chapter, for which a conviction has
been obtained, and the person or persons were employees of the sexually
oriented business at the time the offenses were committed;
         (f)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the sexually oriented business premises; or
         (g)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for taxes, fees,
fines or penalties.
      (3)   Additionally, the Mayor, or the Mayor's designee, shall revoke a
license if a cause of suspension as listed in division (H)(1) above occurs and
the license has been suspended within the preceding 12 months.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004)
§ 112.07 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADULT THEATERS.
   (A)   A person who wishes to operate an adult theater which exhibits in a
viewing room less than 400 square feet of floor space, a film or video display
which depicts specified sexual activities or sexual nudity, shall first comply
with the following requirements.
      (1)   The person's application for a sexually oriented business license
shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises that specifies the location
of one or more manager's stations and the location of all overhead renting
fixtures and designating any portion of the premises in which patrons will not
be permitted. A manager's station may not exceed 32 square feet of floor area.
The diagram shall also depict the place at which the license will be
conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the
nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be required (unless
required by any other city ordinance or by state requirements); however, the
diagram should include an arrow showing the north direction, and dimensions
sufficient to show all interior areas of the premises to an accuracy of plus or
minus six inches. For renewal applications, the applicant may adopt a diagram
that was previously submitted if the applicant certifies that the premises have
not been altered since the diagram was prepared.
      (2)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without an amendment to a license approved by the City
Council.
      (3)   It is the duty of the owner and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (4)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in a manner so
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video display equipment. If the premises
has two or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of the
premises shall be configured in a manner so that there is an unobstructed view
of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in this
division (A)(4) must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the owners, operator, any agents and
employees present on the premises to ensure that the view area specified in
division (A)(4) above remains unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise,
display racks or other materials .
      (6)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access, at an illumination of not less than one footcandle, as measured at the
floor level.
      (7)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to ensure that
the illumination described in this division is maintained at all times that any
patron is present on the premises.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (7) above
commits an offense if the person knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall have the power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter upon presentation of
proper identification to the owner, agent or tenant in charge of any premises
where a sexually oriented business is located. The Chief of Police, or his or
her designee, may enter for the purposes of inspection or investigation to
ensure compliance with the terms of this chapter, any building, structure or
other premises where the sexually oriented business is located, at any time it
is occupied and open for business.
   (B)   A person who owns or operates a sexually oriented business or his or
her agent or employee commits an offense if he or she refuses to permit a
lawful inspection of the premises by a representative of the Chief of Police at
any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (C)   However, when the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, is denied
permission to inspect any premises, inspection shall be made only under the
authority of a warrant issued by a Magistrate authorizing the inspection for
violations of this chapter.
      (1)   In applying for a warrant, the Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, shall submit an affidavit to a Magistrate, setting forth his or her
belief that a violation of this chapter exists with respect to the premises
sought to be inspected and the reasons for that belief.
      (2)   The affidavit shall designate the location of the operator, or
occupant thereof.
      (3)   If the Magistrate finds that probable cause exists for a search of
the premises, the warrant describing the premises with sufficient certainty to
identify them.
      (4)   A warrant so issued shall constitute authority for the Chief of
Police, or his or her designee, to enter upon or inspect the premises.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004)
§ 112.09 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)   The Mayor, or the Mayor's designee, shall conduct a hearing prior to
the suspension or revocation of any license issued under this chapter.
   (B)   The person whose license is under consideration shall be given at
least ten calendar-days' written notice prior to the date of the hearing,
unless the notice is waived by the applicant, and shall be permitted to present
relevant facts and legal argument regarding the pending suspension or
revocation. Disputed issues of fact will be determined by a preponderance of
the evidence.
   (C)   Following the hearing, the Mayor, or the Mayor's designee, shall
consider the merits of the case and shall present a written opinion explaining
his or her decision. Any person wishing to appeal the decision of the Mayor, or
the Mayor's designee, regarding the suspensionor revocation of a license may,
within ten days after date of the written opinion filed by the Mayor, or the
Mayor's designee, appeal the decision to the City Council by written notice to
the Mayor, setting out the basis of the appeal.
   (D)   The City Council shall hold a hearing on the license suspension or
revocation within ten days of the receipt of written notice of appeal. The
appealing party shall be required to comply with the decision of the Mayor, or
his or her designee, during the pendency of the appeal.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004)
§ 112.10 NONCONFORMING USES AND AMORTIZATION.
   (A)   Any sexually oriented business in existence as of the effective date
of this chapter that does not comply with the location restrictions in §
112.04 shall be a nonconforming use. Subject to the license requirements of
this chapter, the business may continue but it shall cease operation no later
than five years from the effective date of this chapter. If the nonconforming
use is discontinued, interrupted or changed, any future use of the land shall
be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All existing sexually oriented businesses, even nonconforming uses
under this chapter, are required to be licensed and shall apply for a license
within 60 calendar days of the date of passage of this chapter. All existing
sexually oriented businesses must be in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and secure a license within 90 calendar days of the passage of this
chapter.
   (C)   The issuance of a yearly license hereunder shall not affect the
amortization of nonconforming uses as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.11 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   False or fraudulent statements. It is unlawful for any person to
knowingly make any false, fraudulent or untruthful statement, either written or
oral, or in any way knowingly to conceal any material fact or to give or use
any assumed name or fictitious name other than the one duly filed for record in
compliance with the Assumed Business or Professional Name Act (Tex. Business
and Commerce Code, Annotated, Ch. 36).
   (B)   Use of another's license unlawful. It is unlawful for any individual,
partnership, corporation or other entity to use a license which has been issued
to another individual, partnership, corporation or other entity.
   (C)   Unlawful to deface, alter and the like, a license. It is unlawful for
any person to counterfeit, forge, change, deface or alter a license.
   (D)   Violation deemed a misdemeanor. Where authorized by law, the violation
of any provision of this chapter will be considered a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12 INJUNCTION.
   A person who owns or operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business without a valid license or in violation of this chapter is subject to
a suit for injunction, as well as prosecution for criminal violation.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.13 NOT TO LEGALIZE STATE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   This chapter does not legalize anything prohibited under the Penal
Code or any other state law or city ordinance.
   (B)   Any violation of the Penal Code or other state law or city ordinance
on the premises of a business licensed under this chapter shall be grounds for
suspension or revocation of the license.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004)
CHAPTER 113: FILMING
Section
   
113.01    Purpose; scope
   
113.02    Definitions
   
113.03    Permit requirement; application process and fees
   
113.04    Review of applications; insurance; agreements
   
113.05    City control/City Administrator authority
   
113.06    Use of city property; filming fees
   
113.07    Special equipment and vehicles
   
113.08    Hours of filming
   
113.09    Notification of residents
§ 113.01 PURPOSE; SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the city as a “Film Friendly
Texas” city, while affording reasonable protection for city property and the
personal and property rights of residents and businesses in the city.
   (B)   This chapter covers the use of the following in connection with
commercial filming in the city:
      (1)   City property;
      (2)   Other property, where the use for commercial filming may affect
adjacent property; or
      (3)   City equipment or personnel.
   (C)   This chapter does not cover the following:
      (1)   Still photography;
      (2)   The making of video or audio recordings not intended for public use
or display to a market audience; or
      (3)   The making of video or audio recordings on private property where
the activities are wholly confined to the property and do not affect other
property.
(Ord. 2013-08-20-2, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY PROPERTY. Streets, rights-of-way, alleys, sidewalks, parks, buildings,
and all other real property owned by the city.
   COMMERCIAL FILM or COMMERCIAL FILMING. Digital or film recording of a visual
image or a sound recording by a person, business, nonprofit, or other entity
for a market audience, such as for a documentary, television, feature film,
commercial, public service announcement, or similar purpose. The terms include
activities related to filming, such as set assembly, construction and display,
staging and operation of lighting, booms, and power equipment, and use of
temporary office, storage, and other accessory facilities.
   PRODUCER. A person engaging in commercial filming.
(Ord. 2013-08-20-2, passed 8-20-2014)
§ 113.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENT; APPLICATION PROCESS AND FEES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to engage in commercial filming in the
city without first securing a commercial filming permit from the city.
   (B)   A producer who desires to perform commercial filming in the city must
contact the City Administrator to discuss the project’s parameters and the
feasibility of filming in the city before submitting an application for a
filming permit. The City Administrator may require a producer to provide a copy
of the script for the commercial filming.
   (C)   After meeting with the City Administrator and securing a determination
that commercial filming is feasible, a producer must submit to the City
Administrator a completed application for a filming permit on a form provided
by the city in accordance with the following applicable time frame:
      (1)   Feature films: A minimum of five business days prior to the
commencement of filming or any substantial activity related to the filming; and
      (2)   Commercial, documentary, television, public service announcement,
or similar purpose: A minimum of two business days prior to the commencement of
filming or any substantial activity related to the filming.
   (D)   The City Administrator may accept late applications in exceptional
circumstances if the producer clearly demonstrates the ability to comply with
all other provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   An application processing fee of $25 must accompany each application
for commercial filming that is timely filed. If the City Administrator agrees
to accept a late application, the processing fee will be $200. These fees are
nonrefundable. The City Administrator may waive the application fee for
commercial filming projects that the Administrator determines will promote the
city, or upon proof of a producer’s non-profit status, or for any other reason
the Administrator deems sufficient.
(Ord. 2013-08-20-2, passed 8-20-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS; INSURANCE; AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The City Administrator is authorized to review applications and
approve permits for commercial filming in the city.
   (B)   If the City Administrator approves a filming permit, the producer
shall submit the following to the Administrator before the permit is issued
(these may be submitted with an application rather than after approval of an
application):
      (1)   A certificate of insurance, naming the city as an additional
insured, with the following coverages and amounts:
         (a)   Commercial general liability, not less than $1,000,000 for
bodily injury and property damage, with a $5,000,000 umbrella; and
         (b)   Motor vehicle liability, not less than $1,000,000 for bodily
injury and property damage;
      (2)   An agreement, on a form provided by the city, under which the
producer will pay in full, promptly upon receipt of an invoice, the following:
         (a)   The costs of repair for any damage to public or private property
resulting from, or in connection with, the producer’s commercial filming, if
the producer has not fully repaired or restored the property to its condition
prior to the filming, or to better than that condition;
         (b)   The costs for any city personnel assigned by the City
Administrator to the producer’s commercial filming at rates determined by the
City Administrator, whether or not the personnel are requested by the producer;
and
         (c)   The costs of any city equipment used in connection with the
producer’s commercial filming at rates determined by the City Administrator on
a case-by-case basis;
      (3)   An agreement, on a form provided by the city, under which the
producer will hold harmless, indemnify and defend the city and its officers,
agents and employees from and against all claims that may arise in connection
with the producer’s commercial filming;
      (4)   An advance deposit for the use of city property, personnel or
equipment, if the City Administrator, in his or her discretion, requires the
producer to submit. The City Administrator may, at his or her discretion, allow
a producer to make direct payments to city personnel for their services.
   (C)   A permit may cover a period of time, not exceeding one year, during
which the producer conducts successive periods of commercial filming in the
city. If the application does not list all of the dates and locations at which
the filming will occur, the producer must submit such information and
applicable fees under §
113.06  to the City Administrator before filming begins at a new location.
(Ord. 2013-08-20-2, passed 8-20-2014)
§ 113.05 CITY CONTROL/CITY ADMINISTRATOR AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Administrator may impose conditions and restrictions on
commercial filming activities in the interest of public health, safety and
welfare. The conditions and restrictions will include those contained in this
chapter, those specified in the permit, and those communicated in writing to
the producer.
   (B)   The producer shall allow city officials and inspectors to inspect all
locations, facilities, buildings and equipment to be used in connection with
commercial filming, if required by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 2013-08-20-2, passed 8-20-2014)
§ 113.06 USE OF CITY PROPERTY; FILMING FEES.
   (A)   The City Administrator may authorize the use of any city property, and
the use of the City of Martindale, Texas name, trademark or logo for commercial
filming. The City Administrator may impose conditions and restrictions on
commercial filming activities involving city property in the interest of public
health, safety and welfare. The conditions and restrictions will include those
contained in this chapter, those specified in the permit, and those
communicated in writing to the producer. A security or damage deposit may be
required based on the type of production activity.
   (B)   The City Administrator has full authority over the hours of filming,
the location of filming, and the manner of use of city property in the course
of commercial filming. The City Administrator has the full and absolute right
to prohibit commercial filming or to order cessation of commercial filming
involving city property, if determined to be detrimental to the public health,
safety and welfare.
   (C)   For commercial filming using the city as a core location for filming,
the producer will pay the city a fee based on the production costs of filming
as follows.
 
Budget                  Fee/Calendar Day
Less than $500,000      $100
$500,000 - $649,999     $250
$650,000 -$999,999      $500
$1,000,000 - $1,499,999 $750
$1,500,000 - $2,999,999 $1,000
$3,000,000 or more      $2,500
 
   (D)   For commercial filming that does not use the city as a core location
for filming, the producer shall pay fees to the city for the use of city
property as follows.
 
Activity                                                   Fee/Calendar Day
Total or disruptive use (during regular operating hours)   $500
of a public building, park, or other public area
Partial or non-disruptive use of a public building, park,  $250
or other public area
Total closure or obstruction of a public street or right-  $50 per block
of-way, including parking lots and on-street parking
Partial closure or obstruction of a public street or       $25 per block
right-of-way, including parking lots and on-street parking
Use of city parking lots, parking areas and city streets
(for the purpose of parking film trailers, buses, catering $50 per block or lot
truck and other large vehicles)
 
(Ord. 2014-08-20-2, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 113.07 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES.
   The applicant shall provide a report listing the number of vehicles and
types of equipment to be used during the filming, including proposed hours of
use and proposed parking locations. Such locations will be subject to approval
by the City Administrator. On-street parking or use of city parking lots shall
be subject to City Administrator approval. The use of exterior lighting, power
generators, or any other noise- or light-producing equipment shall be subject
to approval by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 2013-08-20-2, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 113.08 HOURS OF FILMING.
   Unless a producer secures permission from the City Administrator in advance
and notifies affected property owners and residents, the producer will limit
commercial filming to the following hours: Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to
9:00 p.m., and Saturday, Sunday and holidays, 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2013-08-20-2, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 113.09 NOTIFICATION OF RESIDENTS.
   (A)   This section applies to each commercial filming that will occur in, or
cause traffic, lighting, sound or other impacts to an area that includes one or
more occupied dwellings. A producer shall secure the written approval of the
City Administrator prior to each instance of commercial filming in such an
area.
   (B)   The producer shall provide a short written description, subject to
approval by the City Administrator, of the location and schedule for the
proposed commercial filming for distribution to the residents of each dwelling
in the affected area (as defined by boundaries approved by the City
Administrator). The producer shall make a good faith effort to notify the
residents of each dwelling. The producer shall submit a report to the City
Administrator noting the comments of each resident, along with their
signatures, addresses and phone numbers, and the producer’s response to each
comment. The City Administrator may approve or deny a request for commercial
filming in the area based on the report. If filming is approved, the City
Administrator may impose conditions and restrictions on commercial filming in
the area.
(Ord. 2013-08-20-2, passed 8-20-2013)
CHAPTER 114: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
114.01   Permit requirements
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Operation requirements and restrictions
   
114.04   Sanitation requirements generally
   
114.05   Sanitation requirements for units with facilities to prepare or
dispense unpackaged potentially hazardous food
   
114.06   Special requirements for units which are hand pushed
 
   
114.99   Penalty, culpable mental state
§ 114.01 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a mobile food establishment or vend food afoot
who does not possess a valid, current or mobile food establishment permit from
the City Administrator or designee as provided in this chapter. The permit for
a mobile food establishment shall specify the type of food to be vended, the
manner in which the food is to be vended, and include a description of any
vehicle to be used in the food vending operation.
   (B)   A person seeking a mobile food establishment permit from the City
Administrator or designee shall make application on a form provided by the City
Administrator, and shall provide all of the information listed in divisions (1)
through (13) below as part of the application:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner and/or operator;
      (2)   A government issued identification of the applicant;
      (3)   A description of the owner and/or operator;
      (4)   If the applicant represents a corporation, association or
partnership, the names and addresses of the officers or partners;
      (5)   The name under which the food vending operation will be operated;
      (6)   A description of the type of food or the specific foods to be
vended; as for example prepackaged or unpackaged non-potentially hazardous
food, prepackaged potentially hazardous food, and openly handled potentially
hazardous food;
      (7)   The manner of mobile food vending operation to be conducted; as for
example foot vending, truck, trailer, pushcart, etc.;
      (8)   A description of any vehicle to be used in the mobile food vending
operation along with the license or registration and vehicle identification
number of any vehicle licensed or registered with the state;
      (9)   A notarized letter on the form issued by the city that contains the
address and food establishment permit number of the central preparation
facility required by this chapter;
      (10)   Documentation indicating the volume capacity of any required water
and wastewater storage tanks either on the tank itself or in writing;
      (11)   If the permit application is for the sale of approved openly
handled potentially hazardous food from a pushcart, a vehicle or a trailer, a
water sample test result from a drinking water bacteriology laboratory
accredited by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality showing the absence
of coliform and E. coli which was performed within 30 days prior to the date of
the permit application;
      (12)   Any other information reasonably required by the City
Administrator;
      (13)   If the person seeking a mobile food establishment permit from the
City Administrator or designee will be vending frozen or refrigerated
confections, including but not limited to ice cream cones, frozen ice cream
novelties, raspas or paletas directly to consumers on a public street, sidewalk
or right-of-way, or will travel with the person's mobile food establishment on
a public street, sidewalk or right-of-way to or from a location where the
person vends, then the person shall provide as part of the application to the
City Administrator or designee a written statement from the Police Department
certifying that the person seeking a mobile food establishment's permit is not
a sex offender registered with the State Department of Public Safety and that
the records reviewed by the Police Department indicate that the person seeking
a mobile food establishment permit has not been convicted of any sexual offense
or any offense against a child as defined by applicable law. The basic
requirements for submitting requests for criminal backgrounds of persons
engaged in mobile food vending are specific in Exhibit 1 hereto on file in the
office of the City Clerk, and hereby adopted and incorporated herein for all
purposes by reference.
   (C)   A person seeking a mobile food court permit from the City
Administrator or designee shall make application on a form provided by the City
Administrator, and shall provide all of the information listed in divisions (1)
through (5) as part of the application:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner and/or operator;
      (2)   A description of the owner and/or operator;
      (3)   If the applicant represents a corporation, association or
partnership, the names and addresses of the officers or partners;
      (4)   The address and name under which the mobile food court will be
operated; and
      (5)   Any other information reasonably required by the City
Administrator.
   (D)   Upon receiving a proper application for a mobile food court permit or
mobile food establishment permit, the City Administrator's designee shall make
appropriate inspections of the location, food, equipment, vehicles and other
reasonable inspections concerned with the mobile food court or mobile food
vending operation and shall issue a permit and a sticker only if:
      (1)   The application complies with divisions (B) or (C); and
      (2)   The inspection reveals compliance with the applicable requirements
of all federal and state statutes and regulations, and all city ordinances
governing the proposed mobile food court or mobile food establishment
operation.
   (E)   Mobile food establishment fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   A permit for the sale of pre-packaged or unpackaged, non-
potentially hazardous food by peddling from afoot, from a pushcart, from a
vehicle, or from a trailer shall be $100 per year;
      (2)   A permit for the sale of pre-packaged potentially hazardous food
from a pushcart, from a vehicle, or from a trailer shall be $200 per year;
      (3)   A permit for the sale of approved openly handled potentially
hazardous food from a pushcart, from a vehicle, or from a trailer shall be $300
per year; and
      (4)   The fee for each written statement from the Police Department for
persons age 17 and older as required in division (B)(13) shall be the sum of
the fees required to obtain the local, state and national criminal histories
for the applicant. There shall be no fee for the written statement for persons
under the age of 17.
   (F)   All funds collected for permits under the provisions of this chapter
shall be deposited in the general fund of the city.
   (G)   The valid permit shall be displayed by a mobile food establishment:
      (1)   Inside the vehicle, used in connection with the mobile food vending
operation, at the top of the windshield on the passenger side of the vehicle;
      (2)   On an enclosed trailer on the outside of the unit next to the
servicing window so that it is not obscured when the serving window is closed
for travel;
      (3)   At the top right-hand corner on the front of a pushcart, bicycle or
tricycle used in connection with the mobile food vending operation; or
      (4)   In front of the sink of a corn roaster or hot dog cart used in
connection with the mobile food vending operation.
   (H)   Mobile food establishment permits shall be valid for only one year
from the date of issuance unless sooner suspended or revoked.
   (I)   Mobile food court and mobile food establishment permits shall not be
transferred or assigned and shall be considered suspended should the character
of the food vending operation be changed from that specified in the permit.
   (J)   Every mobile food establishment permit shall be renewed each year in
like manner as the original permit application, except that the written
statement from the city Police Department required under division (B)(13) shall
be renewed every two years from the date of issuance by the Police Department
of such written statement, with a current written statement to be provided to
the City Administrator or designee by the permit holder every two years at the
time the permit holder is seeking permit renewal.
   (K)   The City Administrator's designee shall make routine, unannounced
inspections of mobile food courts, mobile food establishments, central
preparation facilities and servicing areas when applicable, to determine
whether or not the vending operation is being conducted in such a manner as to
comply with the conditions of the permit, the provisions of this chapter, other
applicable city ordinances and state and federal statutes, regulations and
rules.
   (L)   Samples of food and other substances used in the preparation of food
may be taken or retained until examined by the City Administrator's designee
for the detection of unwholesome and deleterious qualities. The City
Administrator's designee may condemn and forbid the sale of or cause to be
removed or destroyed, any food which is adulterated, tainted, diseased,
fermented, decaying or otherwise unwholesome, unclean or deleterious to health.
The owner, operator or other person in charge of such food shall immediately
and in the presence of the City Administrator's designee, destroy such
adulterated, tainted, diseased, fermented, decaying or otherwise unwholesome,
unclean food as directed by the City Administrator' designee.
   (M)   It is the responsibility of the mobile food establishment permit
holder and/or the operator to ensure compliance with this chapter. Violations
of this chapter shall result in the issuance of a citation and/or the
suspension or revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 2016-1004, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNEE. A person appointed by the City Administrator and who is certified
as a Texas Retail Food Establishment Standardized Inspector by the State of
Texas.
   HAZARDOUS FOOD. Means:
      (1)   A food that is natural or synthetic and that requires temperature
control because it is in a form capable of supporting:
         (a)   The rapid and progressive growth of infectious or toxigenic
microorganisms;
         (b)   The growth and toxin production of Clostridium botulinum; or
         (c)   In raw shell eggs, the growth of Salmonella Enteritidis.
      (2)   Includes an animal food (a food of animal origin) that is raw or
heat-treated; a food of plant origin that is heat-treated or consists of raw
seed sprouts; cut melons; and garlic-in-oil mixtures that are not modified in a
way that results in mixtures that do not support growth as specified under
division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   Does not include:
         (a)   An air-cooled hard-boiled egg with shell intact;
         (b)   A food with an aw value of 0.85 or less;
         (c)   A food with a pH level of 4.6 or below when measured at 24°C
(75°F);
         (d)   A food, in an unopened hermetically sealed container, that is
commercially processed to achieve and maintain commercial sterility under
conditions of non-refrigerated storage and distribution;
         (e)   A food for which laboratory evidence demonstrates that the rapid
and progressive growth of infectious or toxigenic microorganisms or the growth
of S. Enteritidis in eggs or C. botulinum cannot occur, such as a food that has
an aw and a pH that are above the levels specified under divisions (3)(b) and
(c) of this definition and that may contain a preservative, other barrier to
the growth of microorganisms, or a combination of barriers that inhibit the
growth of microorganisms; and
         (f)   A food that does not support the growth of microorganisms as
specified under division (1) of this definition even though the food may
contain an infectious or toxigenic microorganism or chemical or physical
contaminant at a level sufficient to cause illness.
   HIGH RISK FOODS. Foods that may contain pathogenic microorganisms and will
normally support formation of toxins or growth of pathogenic microorganisms.
Examples are raw meat, fish, oysters, poultry, milk, tofu, fresh filed pasta,
meat pies, frankfurters, salami, cooked rice, and lasagna.
(Ord. 2016-1004, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 114.03 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   Mobile food establishments are subject to the following requirements and
restrictions unless specifically addressed otherwise:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an afoot food vendor to sell any potentially
hazardous food within the city. It shall be unlawful for an afoot food vendor
to sell from a stand or other temporary structure located upon any public
street, sidewalk, right-of-way, or other adjacent public or private area
without a permit as required under this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a mobile food establishment
to remove the food from the mobile establishment to vend from a stand or other
temporary structure located upon any public street, sidewalk, right-of-way, or
other adjacent public or private area without a permit as required by this
chapter; except that mobile food establishments may sell produce from no more
than three tables that are six feet long and stand at least 18 inches above the
ground, and that are located adjacent to the permitted mobile food
establishment.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate a mobile food establishment on city
streets or in city parks.
   (D)   Mobile food establishments may be stopped on private property,
properly zoned and with the written notarized permission of the property owner
if the mobile food establishment has access to approved flush type toilet
facilities, connected to an approved type sewage system on the private
commercial property. Mobile food establishments must be parked on a paved
surface and in clean surroundings.
   (E)   Food vendors shall comply with this code as well as with state and
federal law and nothing in this chapter shall exempt a food vendor from zoning
ordinances.
   (F)   Mobile food establishments operating within the Historic District
shall comply with the appropriate provisions of Chapter 151 of this city code.
   (G)   The hours of operation of any mobile food establishment operating in a
residential area shall be from 7:00 a.m. Central Standard Time until 9:00 p.m.
in June, July and August and until 8:00 p.m. the remainder of the year.
   (H)   The total noise level of any mobile food establishment shall comply
with Chapter 91 of the city code. The mobile food establishment shall turn off
all music and recorded messages while stationary, except when stopped at a
controlled intersection.
   (I)   Mobile food establishments that are operating in a residential area
shall comply with V.T.C.A., Tex. Transportation Code § 547.703. When
stationary, the mobile food establishment must turn on its hazard lamps as
defined in V.T.C.A., Tex.Transportation Code § 547.331, except when stopped at
a controlled intersection.
   (J)   No food vendor or food handler shall be a sex offender registered with
the State Department of Public Safety or shall have been convicted of any
sexual offense or any offense against a child as defined by applicable law.
   (K)   Prior to vending, each food vendor and food handler who will be
vending frozen or refrigerated confections, including but not limited to ice
cream cones, frozen ice cream novelties, raspas or paletas directly to
consumers, on a public street, sidewalk, or right-of-way, or who will travel
with a mobile food establishment on a public street, sidewalk or right-of-way
to or from a location where the food vendor or food handler vends, shall be
required to obtain a written statement issued by the Police Department
certifying that the food vendor or food handler is not a sex offender
registered with the State Department of Public Safety and that the records
reviewed by the Police Department indicate that the food vendor or food handler
has not been convicted of any sexual offense or any offense against a child as
defined by applicable law.
   (L)   Each food vendor and food handler who is required under division (K)
to obtain a written statement from the Police Department must renew this
written statement every two years from the date of issuance by the Police
Department of such written statement.
   (M)   The fee for each written statement from the Police Department for
persons age 17 and older as required in divisions (K) and (L) shall be the sum
of the fees required to obtain the local, state, and national criminal
histories for the applicant. There shall be no fee for the written statement
for persons under the age of 17.
   (N)   Each food vendor and food handler who is required to obtain a written
statement from the Police Department shall carry the current written statement
from the Police Department, as required under division (K), on their person at
all times while vending.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful for a person who has obtained a mobile food
establishment permit, to hire or allow a food vendor or food handler to vend on
a public street, sidewalk, or right-of-way, or to travel with a mobile food
establishment on a public street, sidewalk or right-of-way to or from a
location where the food vendor or food handler will vend, who has not first
obtained a current written statement issued by the city police department as
required by divisions (K) and (L).
(Ord. 2016-1004, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 114.04 SANITATION REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
   Mobile food establishments shall comply with the following requirements.
These requirements pertain to all mobile food establishments unless
specifically addressed otherwise:
   (A)   Mobile food establishments shall comply with all sanitation and
construction regulations as outlined in T.A.C. § 229.169 of the Tex. Food
Establishment Rules as adopted in this chapter unless specifically addressed in
this section.
   (B)   A mobile food establishment shall be operated from a central
preparation facility that is licensed or approved by a local, state or federal
agency or an approved servicing area as applicable so as to be an approved
source and the mobile food establishment shall report to the central
preparation facility or servicing area as needed, but not less than once per
calendar week for all cleaning and servicing operations. The mobile food
establishment shall acquire needed supplies from the central preparation
facility or other approved source. The mobile food establishment and central
preparation facility or servicing area shall maintain documentation of each
visit to the central preparation facility or servicing area and shall have that
documentation available for inspection. Mobile food establishments dispensing
fresh fish and shrimp, prepackaged novelty ice cream, whole, uncut fruit and
vegetables and any prepackaged non-potentially hazardous foods are exempt from
this provision.
   (C)   Mobile food establishments that dispense snow cones/shaved ice/raspas,
shrimp, fish, shellfish, or crustacean shall provide a gravity fed hand washing
system, soap, and paper towels.
   (D)   Liquid waste resulting from any mobile vending operation shall be
stored in permanently installed retention tanks of at least 15% larger capacity
than the water supply tank and shall be drained and thoroughly flushed during
servicing operations. All liquid waste shall be discharged to an approved
sanitary sewage disposal system at the central preparation facility or
servicing area.
   (E)   All food that requires packaging or preparation by the vendor shall be
processed in the central preparation facility that is required as a support
facility for a mobile food establishment.
   (F)   Mobile food establishments dispensing snow cones/shaved ice/raspas
shall be designed so as to enable the operator of the unit to protect the
equipment, syrup, ice and utensils used in the operation of the unit from dust,
insects and rodents while the unit is in transit or overnight storage.
   (G)   Mobile food establishments shall provide waste containers for
customers at such times when the unit is parked.
(Ord. 2016-1004, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 114.05 SANITATION REQUIREMENTS FOR UNITS WITH FACILITIES TO PREPARE OR
DISPENSE UNPACKAGED POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOOD.
   In addition to the sanitation requirements described in §
114.04, food vendors preparing and vending food from a mobile food
establishment with facilities to prepare or dispense unpackaged potentially
hazardous foods, shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   A mobile food establishment central preparation facility or servicing
area required in §
114.04 (B), shall include at least overhead protection for any supplying,
cleaning or servicing operation except those areas used only for the loading of
water and/or the discharge of sewage and other liquid waste, through the use of
a closed system of hoses, need not be provided with overhead protection. Within
this central preparation facility/servicing area, there shall be a location
provided for the flushing and the draining of liquid waste separate from the
location provided for water servicing and for the loading and the unloading of
food and related supplies.
   (B)   The central preparation facility and servicing area will maintain a
log of mobile food establishments being serviced at the central preparation
facility or servicing area and require each mobile food establishment that is
serviced to document the date and time of arrival and departure from the
central preparation facility or servicing area and the services performed. The
mobile food establishment, central preparation facility and servicing area will
make available for inspection the record or records of the mobile food
establishments serviced.
   (C)   All water and gas distribution pipes or tubing shall be constructed
and installed in accordance with public health, Fire Department and plumbing
standards as set out by the ordinances of the city. The water for said
operations shall be from an approved source. Every calendar week, mobile food
establishments shall check chlorination of its water supply. Every calendar
month, mobile food establishments shall sanitize water tanks. Records of all
such test results and sanitization shall be made available to the city upon
inspection.
   (D)   A water heating device of no less than six gallons, or an
instantaneous water heater, capable of producing 110°F hot water during the
entire time of operation shall be provided in the mobile food establishment.
   (E)   All food service operations shall be carried on from within the mobile
food establishment.
   (F)   Any additional equipment or the arrangement thereof other than
approved when the permit was issued shall be prohibited unless approved in
advance by the City Administrator's designee.
(Ord. 2016-1004, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 114.06 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR UNITS WHICH ARE HAND PUSHED.
   In addition to the requirements described for mobile food establishments the
following requirements shall be met by mobile food establishments of perishable
foods and potentially hazardous foods from a hand pushed mobile food
establishment; except that snow cones/shaved ice/raspas, produce, prepackaged
novelty ice cream and prepackaged nonperishable food vendors are exempt from
the provisions of §
114.03(F), (G), and (H).
   (A)   Snowcones/shaved ice/raspa vendors shall provide a gravity fed hand
washing station. Soap and paper towels are to be provided. Waste water from
handwashing is to be collected in a sealable container and disposed of in a
sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Any additional equipment or the arrangement thereof other than
approved when the permit was issued shall be prohibited unless approved in
advance by the City Administrator's designee.
   (C)   The mobile food establishment shall be located in clean surroundings,
on a paved surface or equally impervious ground and maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (D)   A push cart vendor shall be prohibited from operating on the public
streets.
   (E)   The mobile food establishment shall be cleaned and serviced at the
central preparation facility or servicing area and shall be stored inside a
building when not in operation. The mobile food establishment shall acquire
needed supplies from the central preparation facility or other approved source.
The mobile food establishment shall provide documentation of each visit to the
central preparation facility or servicing area and shall have that
documentation available for inspection. With prior approval from the City
Administrator or designee, however, the mobile food establishment may be kept
on site in a location that is secured, fenced and inaccessible to the public
during non-operating hours. When so stored on site, such mobile food
establishment must be covered for protection from the elements and potential
vectors with covering approved by the City Administrator's designee. The mobile
food establishment stored on site shall be cleaned and serviced on the same
standards as those units cleaned and serviced in a central preparation facility
or servicing area and must meet all other requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Hand pushed mobile food establishments openly handling potentially
hazardous food and drink shall be equipped with a two-compartment sink, a
separate handwashing sink, soap and paper towels, and provided with an adequate
amount of hot and cold running water. The sink, potable water holding tanks,
and waste water holding tank shall be installed and operated in accordance with
the city's plumbing regulations.
   (G)   Facilities to heat water and potentially hazardous food products on
hand pushed mobile food establishments shall be installed and operated in
accordance with the city's fire code rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2016-1004, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 114.99 PENALTY, CULPABLE MENTAL STATE.
   The penalty for the violation of any portion of this chapter shall be a fine
of not less than $1 nor more than $2,000. Each day shall constitute a new and
distinct violation. The culpable mental state is hereby dispensed with and any
violation of this section shall be considered a strict liability offense.
(Ord. 2016-1004, passed 10-4-2016)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   MINORS; CURFEW
         
131.   WEAPONS AND FIREARMS
         
132.   FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
CHAPTER 130: MINORS; CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Offenses
   
130.03   Defenses
   
130.04   Enforcement
   
130.05   Periodic reports by Chief of Police
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS.
      (1)   From 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day;
      (2)   From 12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday; and
      (3)   From 9:00 a.m. until 3:00 p.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday or Friday while the public schools in the county are in session unless
the minor has school permission to be off campus. This definition does not
apply to persons six years of age and younger.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster or automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PARENT. A person who is:
      (1)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of another person;
or
      (2)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian to
have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
alleys, sidewalks, parks, parking lots and the common areas of schools,
hospitals apartment houses, office buildings, transport facilities and shops.
   REMAIN.
      (1)   Linger or stay;
      (2)   Walk, run, idle, wander, stroll or aimlessly drive or ride; or
      (3)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY.  Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(Ord. 2016-03-05-01, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 130.02 OFFENSES.
   (A)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours.
   (C)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
   (D)   A person commits an offense if the person knowingly induces,
encourages, accompanies, assists or aids or abets a minor in a violation of
curfew hours.
(Ord. 2016-03-05-01, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 130.03 DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
130.02(A) above that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a school, civic or
religious organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for
the minor, or going to or returning home from the activity without any detour
or stop, any official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization or another
similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly: or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with the Tex. Family Code, Ch. 31.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
130.02(C) above that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment
promptly notified the Police Department that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. 2016-03-05-01, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 130.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police officer
shall ask the apparent minor's age and reason for being in the public place or
establishment. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
§
130.03 above is present.
(Ord. 2016-03-05-01, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 130.05 PERIODIC REPORTS BY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   Within six months after the initial enforcement of this chapter, and every
three years thereafter, the Chief of Police shall review this chapter and
submit a report and make recommendations to the City Council concerning the
effectiveness of and the continuing need for the chapter. The Police Chiefs
report shall specifically include the following information:
   (A)   The practicality of enforcing the chapter and any problems with
enforcement identified by the Police Department;
   (B)   The impact of the chapter on crime statistics;
   (C)   The number of persons successfully prosecuted for a violation of the
chapter; and
   (D)   The city's net cost of enforcing the chapter.
(Ord. 2016-03-05-01, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of a
separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the violation is
committed, continued or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction, is punishable
by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   When required by Tex. Family Code, § 51.08, as amended, the municipal
court shall waive original jurisdiction over a minor who violates §
130.02(A) and shall refer the minor to juvenile court.
(Ord. 2016-03-05-01, passed 5-3-2016)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS AND FIREARMS
Section
   
131.01   Purpose and objective
   
131.02   Definition
   
131.03   Discharging firearms
   
131.04   Defenses
   
131.05   Registration for defense
   
131.06   Carrying of a firearm
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide clear regulations concerning the
carrying and discharge of firearms within the city.
(Ord. 08-353, passed 6-17-2008)
§ 131.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM. A gun, pistol, revolver, pellet gun, BB gun, air pistol or rifle,
shotgun, rifle or any other mechanism that discharges or ejects any bullet,
buckshot or any other metallic object of any size by force of combustion,
mechanism or air.
(Ord. 08-353, passed 6-17-2008)
§ 131.03 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to willfully or intentionally discharge a
firearm within the limits of the city.
   (B)   This section does not apply to peace officers in the course of
performing their duties, the discharge of firearms at locations and times
approved in advance by the Chief of Police, or the discharge of a firearm
against a dangerous animal to protect life or property.
   (C)   This section shall not be so construed as to prohibit the discharge of
firearms as described above, in connection with a public or private school
instruction program, or an organized training or instruction facility within
the city limits.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to any person acting in lawful defense of
a person or property.
   (E)   This section shall not apply in the extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the city.
(Ord. 08-353, passed 6-17-2008) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
131.03 above that a person discharges a shotgun, air rifle or pistol, or BB gun
upon a tract of ten acres or more under one ownership, with the effective
consent of the owner(s) and any tenant(s) residing thereon, and more than 100
feet from a residence or occupied building or developed area, provided that the
firearm is not discharged in a manner as would reasonably be expected to cause
any projectile to cross the boundary of the tract onto other premises.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
131.03 above that a person discharging a center fire or rim fire rifle of any
caliber upon a tract of 50 acres or more under one ownership, with the
effective consent of the owner(s) and any tenant(s) residing thereon, and more
than 300 feet from a residence or occupied building located on another
property, or developed area, provided that the rifle is not discharged in a
manner as would reasonably be expected to cause any projectile to cross the
boundary of the tract onto other premises.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEVELOPED AREA. Any predominantly residential area, either a platted
subdivision or group of residences which are built and developed in close
proximity to each other or on tracts of land of less than five acres per
residence.
      EFFECTIVE CONSENT. The consent of a person authorized to act, or whom the
shooter reasonably believed was so authorized.
      ONE OWNERSHIP. An un-subdivided parcel, which may be owned by a person,
corporation or other entity, or by a combination thereof, or tenant in common.
(Ord. 08-353, passed 6-17-2008) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 REGISTRATION FOR DEFENSE.
   (A)   The owner(s), tenant(s) or person(s) with effective consent of the
owner(s) and any tenant(s) shall make application with the Chief of Police or
his or her delegate specifying the above enumerated defense of which the person
intends to take advantage.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, or his or her delegate, may deny the granting of
an application where he or she believes that there has been, or will be a
failure to comply with the intent of this section. In the event that an
application is denied, applicant shall have the right to appeal to the City
Council and receive a hearing at the next available City Council meeting where
the item may be posted according to the the State Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   In the event an individual fails to make an application and obtain
approval of the Chief of Police or his or her delegate, then none of the above
enumerated exceptions are available as a defense to prosecution.
(Ord. 08-353, passed 6-17-2008) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 CARRYING OF A FIREARM.
   The carrying of a firearm by a person other than a person licensed to carry
a concealed handgun under Tex. Gov't Code, Ch. 411, Subchapter H, is unlawful
at a:
   (A)   City office;
   (B)   Public park;
   (C)   Public meeting of the city or city-sponsored community event;
   (D)   Political rally, parade or official meeting;
   (E)   Non-firearms related school, college or professional athletic event;
and
   (F)   Public parade utilizing city streets and roads.
(Ord. 08-353, passed 6-17-2008) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction, shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not to exceed $500. In
addition, the city may also direct the city attorney to bring a civil action in
a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The city may direct the City Attorney to bring a civil action in a
court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Additionally, the city shall be entitled to recover its reasonable attorney's
fees and expenses for prosecuting any violation of this chapter to a successful
conclusion.
(Ord. 08-353, passed 6-17-2008)
CHAPTER 132: FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
132.01   Prohibited
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Sale. Withing the limits of the city, no person shall sell, offer for
sale, deliver or give to any individual any form of fireworks.
   (B)   Detonation. Except as otherwise provided herein no person shall use
any form of fireworks or explosives regardless of means of detonation (direct
ignition, electrical impulse, chemical, compression/decompression, etc.)
   (C)   Exception. The provisions of division (B) above shall not apply to any
individual(s) who has/have procured a written permit signed by the Mayor to
conduct a fireworks demonstration under controlled conditions.
(Ord. 105, passed 7-3-1984) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by a fine not to exceed $100 for each violation.
(Ord. 105, passed 7-3-1984)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
         
152.   SIGN REGULATIONS
         
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
         
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
155.   ZONING CODE
         
156.   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS FOR PROJECTS IN THE ETJ
         
157.   PROTECTION OF THE NIGHT SKY
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Definitions
   
150.002   Adoption of codes
   
150.003   Building inspections
   
150.004   Conflict of interest
   
150.005   Records
   
150.006   Permit application; filing; fees
   
150.007   Certificate of insurance required for contractors
   
150.008   Building accessibility
   
150.009   Construction noise
   
150.010   Time for issuance of permit
   
150.011   Board of Adjustments and Appeals
Scenic Corridor
   
150.025   Established
   
150.026   Purpose
   
150.027   Development standards
   
150.028   Certificate required for development activities in the scenic
corridor
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions contained in Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, Ch. 214, Subchapter G
apply to this chapter. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ICC. The International Code Council, Inc.
   INTERNATIONAL CODE. Any code published by the International Code Council,
Inc.
   SBCCI. The Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc.
(Ord. 07-231, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.002 ADOPTION OF CODES.
   (A)   The following codes are adopted to govern construction and
construction-related activities:
      (1)   2021 International Building Code (IBC);
      (2)   2021 International Residential Code (IRC);
      (3)   2021 International Energy Conservation Code (IECC);
      (4)   2021 International Mechanical Code (IMC);
      (5)   2021 International Plumbing Code (IPC);
      (6)   2021 International Fire Code (IFC);
      (7)   2021 International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC);
      (8)   2020 National Electrical Code (NEC);
      (9)   2021 International Existing Building Code (IEBC); and
      (10)   2021 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC).
   (B)   If there is a conflict between a state law and an adopted code or the
provisions of this chapter, the state law will take precedence. In cases of a
conflict between a provision of this chapter and these adopted codes, the
provisions of this chapter will take precedence. Otherwise, all structures
shall be designed, built and maintained in accordance with these adopted codes,
except as expressly set forth herein.
   (C)   Upon the amendment of any of the codes herein adopted, the amendment
shall automatically be part of the code that regulates the subject matter
thereof within the city, unless provided otherwise by the provisions of this
chapter or subsequent ordinances.
(Ord. 07-231, passed 10-16-2007; Ord. 2013-06-18, passed 6-18-2013; Ord. 2021-
08-03, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 150.003 BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   All building inspections and inspections relating to construction under the
terms of this chapter, and the codes hereby adopted shall be performed by a
person or persons employed by the city or by an independent contractor engaged
by the city. The city will designate a person to have the authority of the
Building Official under the codes adopted herein and under the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 07-231, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.004 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No person who performs building inspections on behalf of the city
shall have a financial interest in any construction activity (including
construction contracting, design or cost estimating, furnishing labor,
materials or supplies, consulting or project management services, building
maintenance or repair, and real estate inspection) within the city limits or
the city's extraterritorial jurisdiction at the time he or she performs the
services on behalf of the city.
   (B)   The restriction contained in this section shall not extend to a
person's interest in a residence owned and occupied by the person as a
homestead, but that person may not be involved in the plan review, permit
issuance or inspection of any construction work on his or her homestead.
(Ord. 07-231, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.005 RECORDS.
   The Building Official shall cause a record to be kept of the business
undertaken on behalf of the city which shall be delivered to the City Secretary
for keeping as a public record of the city.
(Ord. 07-231, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.006 PERMIT APPLICATION; FILING; FEES.
   (A)   All permit applications shall be made upon forms provided by the
Building Official.
   (B)   Once a permit application is determined by the Building Official to be
complete, the Building Official will inform the applicant of the amount of the
permit fee. An application will not be considered to be filed with the Building
Official until its completeness is verified and the full amount of the permit
fee is paid. A permit fee may be wholly or partially waived in a written
development incentive agreement with the city.
   (C)   The Building Official may require that a plan review fee be paid by a
permit applicant at the time an application is submitted. The payment of the
plan review fee will not be deemed to constitute the filing of the application,
and the application will not be considered to be filed with the Building
Official unless and until the application is verified to be complete and the
full amount of the permit fee is paid.
   (D)   Before increasing the scope of work during the construction period
relative to the work authorized to be done under the permit, the permit holder
shall file an amended permit application and pay additional fees that are
assessed based on the increase in scope prior to beginning any work not covered
by the original permit.
   (F)   One permit will be issued for the entire construction to the general
or prime contractor. However, it shall be necessary for the prime contractor to
provide proof that all subcontractors and journeymen on the job have
appropriate licenses to perform the work that they are to perform including,
without limitation, plumbing, electrical and HVAC. No permit shall be issued to
a general contractor absent proof of licensed subcontractors.
(Ord. 07-231, passed 10-16-2007; Ord. 2012-03-01, passed 3-6-2012; Ord. 2024-
01-04, passed 1-4-2024)
§ 150.007 CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE REQUIRED FOR CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   A person who files an application for a building permit shall provide
or already have provided the Building Official a certificate of insurance that
meets the requirements of division (B) below. A permit will not be issued until
the certificate of insurance has been filed.
   (B)   A certificate of insurance shall:
      (1)   Be written by a company licensed to do business in the state;
      (2)   Provide for commercial general liability insurance coverage for the
builder for claims for property damage or bodily injury;
      (3)   Be in a coverage amount of not less than $300,000 for all claims
arising in any one-year period; and
      (4)   Will provide the coverage for the period of time anticipated to be
involved in the construction for which the permit is issued. In the event that
coverage will expire during a period of construction, the permit holder must
provide a replacement certificate providing for coverage for the remainder of
the construction period shall be required.
   (C)   This section shall not alter the responsibility of any person
performing construction activity for damages to anyone or for performance of
any contract.
   (D)   Neither the city nor any city employee or contractor assumes any
liability on the basis of inspection activity or the issuance of a license,
certificate or permit.
(Ord. 07-231, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.008 BUILDING ACCESSIBILITY.
   Compliance with all building accessibility standards of state and federal
law shall be required as a condition of the issuance of any building or
construction permit.
(Ord. 07-231, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.009 CONSTRUCTION NOISE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to cause construction noise to be made
between 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. if the noise can be heard from any public
street or from a residence on private property other than the property on which
the noise is made.
   (B)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Construction noise from construction activities performed by or for
a governmental entity;
      (2)   Construction noise from emergency construction activities conducted
solely to alleviate an imminent danger to persons or property; or
      (3)   Construction noise from construction activities that are required
in order for the installation or performance of certain systems or subsystems
to meet best practices of building construction. This exception will apply only
upon the Building Official's prior written approval. To obtain the Building
Official's approval a contractor must provide written certification from a
licensed architect or engineer and any other information the Building Official
determines is required to prove that the activity is required for best
practices. Granting the exception is within the sole discretion of the Building
Official.
(Ord. 07-231, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.010 TIME FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Not later than the forty-fifth day after the date an application for a
permit is submitted under the terms of this chapter, the city must:
      (1)   Grant or deny the permit;
      (2)   Provide written notice to the applicant stating the reasons why the
city has been able to grant or deny the permit application; or
      (3)   Reach a written agreement with the applicant providing for a
deadline for granting or denying the permit.
   (B)   For a permit application for which notice is provided under division
(A)(2) above, the city must grant or deny the permit not later than the
thirtieth day after the date the notice is received.
   (C)   If the city fails to grant or deny a permit application in the time
required by division (B) above or by an agreement under division (A)(3) above,
the city:
      (1)   May not collect any permit fees associated with the application;
and
      (2)   Shall refund to the applicant any permit fees (other than plan
review fees) associated with the application that have been collected.
   (D)   The city shall act through the Building Official or the Board of
Adjustments and appeals as to any matter for which an appeal has been taken.
(Ord. 07-231, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.011 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   There is hereby established a Board of Adjustments and Appeals
which shall consist of three members and two alternates. The Board and
alternates shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council.
To the extent possible, the Board members shall be residents of the city with
knowledge and experience in the building trades.
      (2)   The Board members shall be appointed by the time of the first
regular meeting of the City Council after the regular municipal election each
year and confirmed by vote of the City Council at the meeting. A simple
majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum and a majority vote of the
entire three-member Board shall be required to modify a decision of the
Building Official.
      (3)   In the event that regular members are unable to attend the meeting
so as to cause a quorum not to be present or so as to prohibit the majority
vote herein required, one or more alternate members shall be entitled to vote
at the meeting.
      (4)   The Building Official, or his or her appointee, shall act as
Secretary of the Board, and shall make a detailed record and minutes of its
proceedings, which shall set forth the reasons for Board decisions, the vote of
each member, and any failure of a member to vote or be present. All minutes
shall be delivered promptly to the City Secretary upon their completion for
inclusion as part of the city's records.
      (5)   If a Board of Adjustments and Appeals has not been appointed, or
the Board is unable to perform its functions for any reason, the City Council
will serve as the Board of Adjustments and Appeals, and the City Secretary will
serve as the secretary of the Board.
   (B)   Powers and decision. The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall have
the power to hear appeals of decisions of the Building Official and to consider
variances from the codes as provided in the codes and otherwise in accordance
with law.
   (C)   Notice of appeal.
      (1)   Notice of appeal from a decision of the Building Official shall be
in writing and submitted to the City Secretary. The notice shall contain a
detailed statement of the reasons for the appeal and the relief requested, and
shall be filed within 30 days after the decision of the Building Official from
which an appeal is being taken.
      (2)   The City Secretary shall promptly notify the Board Chair of the
filing of an appeal and the Board shall schedule a meeting to consider the
appeal promptly, but no later than within 15 days from the date the appeal has
been filed with the City Secretary. In the case of a building structure or
service system that, in the opinion of the Building Official, is unsafe,
unsanitary or dangerous, the Building Official may limit the time for the
appeal to a shorter period and shall so state in writing the decision.
   (D)   Decisions. The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall reach a decision
on any appeal without unreasonable delay and in accordance with the time limits
contained in §
150.010 above.
(Ord. 07-231, passed 10-16-2007)
SCENIC CORRIDOR
§ 150.025 ESTABLISHED.
   The scenic corridor is hereby established as extending along the entire
length of State Highway 80 within the city limits, and along the entire length
of State Highway 142 within the city limits, and extending 300 feet on either
side of the right-of-way.
§ 150.026 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the scenic corridor is to preserve and enhance the visual
quality of the two principal gateways leading into the city, while facilitating
traffic flow and providing for the safety of motorists, pedestrians, cyclists,
and landowners. In addition, the scenic corridor requires that building size,
exterior details, and materials be compatible with existing buildings and
neighborhoods in order to sustain the city's unique qualities that have proven
to be increasingly attractive to residents, businesses, and tourists.
§ 150.027 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following development standards will apply to development activities in
the scenic corridor:
   (A)   Minimum setbacks. All buildings will be set back a minimum of 50 feet
from the right-of-way within the scenic corridor.
   (B)   Landscaping. A minimum 20-foot landscape buffer will be provided
adjacent to the right-of-way within the scenic corridor. A minimum of one tree
and five shrubs for every 30 linear feet of street frontage will be provided
and maintained within the 20-foot landscape buffer.
   (C)   Parking. Required parking may be allowed within the required front
yard setback but will not encroach upon the required front yard landscape
buffer.
   (D)   Future rights-of-way. Where a future right-of-way line has been
established for widening or opening of a street or is indicated on the
thoroughfare plan, then the minimum required setback will be measured from the
future right-of-way line.
   (E)   Exterior architectural features. The architectural style, design,
arrangement, size, and general components of all outer surfaces of a building
will include similar color, texture, and style of all windows, doors, lights,
roofs, signs and other exterior architectural features appurtenant to such
buildings or structures so as to reflect a mixture of existing gable roof
style, frame vernacular, or colonial revival structures found within the scenic
corridor.
§ 150.028 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED FOR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES IN THE SCENIC
CORRIDOR.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a certificate of appropriateness is to assure
that development activities in the scenic corridor are congruous with the
historical, architectural and cultural character of adjacent and nearby areas
within the scenic corridor, and to ensure that existing historic structures,
streets and neighborhoods are preserved and protected.
   (B)   Applicability. A certificate of appropriateness is required prior to
undertaking any of the following activities in scenic corridor:
      (1)   Construction or reconstruction;
      (2)   Alteration, additions, restoration or rehabilitation;
      (3)   Relocation;
      (4)   Signage;
      (5)   Construction or reconstruction of a parking lot;
      (6)   Construction or reconstruction of an appurtenance;
      (7)   Demolition; and
      (8)   Establishment or alteration of lighting, furniture and seating
plans, and/or awnings and umbrellas within public right-of-ways.
   (C)   Exceptions. This requirement does not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Changes in color to a structure's exterior;
      (2)   Interior arrangements for structures;
      (3)   Ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior feature that does
not involve a change in design, material, or outer appearance; or
      (4)   A development activity which the Building Official or other
responsible official certifies is required for the public safety because of an
unsafe or dangerous condition.
   (D)   Effect. Approval of a certificate of appropriateness authorizes the
applicant to apply for permits for the proposed development activity.
   (E)   Sequence of approvals.
      (1)   Prior approvals. An application for a certificate of
appropriateness shall not be approved unless the following permit(s) have been
approved and remain in effect covering the proposed development activity:
         (a)   Zoning that allows the proposed use;
         (b)   Any specific use permit required for the proposed use;
         (c)   Any required final subdivision plat or final development plat
for the proposed use.
      (2)   Subsequent approvals. A certificate of appropriateness must be
approved prior to the issuance of a building permit or any other permit that
authorizes the development activity.
   (F)   Application requirements. Each application for a certificate of
appropriateness will be accompanied by an application fee of $100, and will
contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, telephone number and email address of the applicant.
      (2)   Detailed description of the proposed development activity.
      (3)   Location and photographs of the property and of adjacent
properties. Historical photographs, when available, may be requested as well.
      (4)   Elevation drawings of the proposed development activity, if
applicable.
      (5)   Pictures, brochures, or physical samples of exterior materials to
be used.
      (6)   If the proposal includes signs or lettering, a scale drawing
showing the type of lettering to be used, all dimensions and colors, a
description of materials to be used, method of illumination (if any), and a
plan showing the sign's location on the property.
      (7)   Any other information which the building official may deem
necessary in order to visualize the proposed development activity.
      (8)   If the applicant so desires, a request that the city council
expedite the application, and list the reasons why.
   (G)   Processing of application and decision.
      (1)   Decision-maker. The City Council will be the decision-maker for a
certificate of appropriateness.
      (2)   Public hearing and decision. The City Council will conduct a public
hearing concerning the application. If the City Council determines that the
proposed activity is appropriate, it will approve the application and issue to
the applicant a certificate of appropriateness. If the City Council determines
that a certificate of appropriateness should not be issued, or should be issued
subject to conditions, it will place upon its records the reasons for its
determination.
      (3)   Time for decision. The City Council will render its decision within
30 days of the date the application is accepted for filing.
   (H)   Criteria for approval. The following criteria will be used to
determine whether the application for a certificate of appropriateness will be
approved, conditionally approved or denied:
      (1)   Whether the proposed development activity would have a detrimental
effect on the historical, architectural or cultural character of the scenic
corridor; and
      (2)   Whether the property owner would suffer extreme hardship, not
limited solely to loss of profit, unless the certificate of appropriateness is
issued.
   (I)   Time of expiration. A certificate of appropriateness will expire one
year from the date it is issued if the proposed activity has not commenced, or
two years from the date the certificate is issued, if the proposed activity has
not been completed.
   (J)   Extension. A certificate of appropriateness may be extended by the
City Council for a period not to exceed one year from the date required for
commencement, and two years from the date for completion of the activity
authorized by the certificate.
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the terms of this chapter may be punished by a fine not to
exceed $500; except, however, any violation of a rule that pertains to fire
safety, zoning, or public health and sanitation, including the dumping of
refuse, may be punished by a find not to exceed $2,000. The provisions of this
section shall be subject to any future amendment of Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, §
54.001.
(Ord. 07-231, passed 10-16-2007)
CHAPTER 151: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
151.01   Purposes
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Historic Preservation Commission
   
151.04   Appointment of Historic Preservation Officer
   
151.05   Designation of historic landmarks
   
151.06   Designation of historic districts
   
151.07   Criteria for designation of historic landmarks and districts
   
151.08   Certificate of appropriateness required
   
151.09   Criteria for approval of a certificate of appropriateness
   
151.10   Certification of appropriateness application procedure
   
151.11   Requirement for demolition; certification of appropriateness
   
151.12   Economic hardship application procedure
   
151.13   Enforcement
   
151.14   Ordinary maintenance
   
151.15   Demolition by neglect
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSES.
   (A)   The City Council hereby declares that, as a matter of public policy,
the protection, enhancement and preservation of landmarks and districts of
historical and cultural importance and significance is necessary to promote the
economic, cultural, educational and general welfare of the public. It is
recognized that the architecture represents the unique confluence of time and
place that shaped the identity of generations of citizens, collectively and
individually, and produced significant historic, architectural and cultural
resources that constitute their heritage.
   (B)   This chapter is intended to:
      (1)   Protect, enhance and preserve the landmarks and districts which
represent distinctive elements of the city's historic, architectural and
cultural heritage;
      (2)   Foster civic pride in the accomplishments of the past;
      (3)   Protect and enhance the city's attractiveness to visitors and the
support and stimulus to economy thereby provided;
      (4)   Ensure the harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and development
of the city;
      (5)   Promote economic prosperity and welfare of the community by
encouraging the most appropriate use of the property within the city; and
      (6)   Encourage stabilization, restoration and improvement of the
properties and their values.
   (C)   For approximately 100 years (1860-70s to 1960-70s) the city, situated
on the banks of the San Marcos River was known for its agriculture, seed
production and cotton ginning. Commercial buildings and individual residences
especially reflect the late nineteenth and early twentieth century culture.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. Any change to the exterior of a building, structure, object or
site. ALTERATION shall include, but is not limited to, changing to a different
kind, type or size of roofing or siding materials; changing, elimination or
adding exterior doors, door frames, windows, window frames, shutters, fences,
railings, columns, beams, walls, porches, steps, porte-cocheres, balconies, or
ornamentation; or the dismantling, moving or removing of any exterior feature.
ALTERATION does not include ordinary maintenance and repair.
   ARCHAEOLOGICAL. Relating to the study of past human behavior through use of
material remains of historic and prehistoric origin.
   BUILDING. A building, such as a house, barn, church, hotel or similar
construction that is created to shelter any form of human activity. BUILDING
may also be used to refer to a historically and functionally related unit, such
as a courthouse and jail or a house and barn.
   BUILDING PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by the City
Secretary or Building Official authorizing performance of a specified activity,
including the alteration, restoration, rehabilitation, construction, relocation
or demolition of a building, structure or object.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. A current and valid permit issued by the
Commission, as applicable, authorizing the issuance of a building permit for
construction, alteration, rehabilitation, restoration, relocation or demolition
required by this chapter.
   CONSTRUCTION. The act of expanding an existing building, structure or
object; or the creation of a new building, structure or object on a lot, site
or other property.
   DEMOLITION. An act or process that destroys in whole or in part any
building, structure, object or site.
   DESIGNATED. The formal recognition by the City Council of a building,
structure, object, site or district as historically, architecturally,
culturally or archaeologically significant to the city, state, nation or
region.
   EXTERIOR FEATURE. An element of the architectural character and general
arrangement of the external portion of a building, structure or object,
including building materials, that is visible from a public right-of-way.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A geographic area of the city, designated as described in
this chapter, which possesses a significant concentration, linkage or
continuity of sites, buildings, structures or objects united historically or
aesthetically by plan or physical development.
   INTEGRITY. The authenticity of a property's historic identity, evidenced by
survival of physical characteristics that existed during the property's
historic or prehistoric period.
   LANDMARK. Any individual building, structure or object that is significant
for historical, architectural or archaeological reasons.
   OBJECT. Used to distinguish from buildings and structures those
constructions that are primarily artistic in nature, or are relatively small in
scale, and simply constructed. Although it may be, by nature or design,
movable, an OBJECT is associated with a specific setting or environment, such
as statuary in a designated landscape.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE. Activities relating to a property that would be
considered ordinary or common for maintaining the property and does not involve
a change in design, materials, color or appearance, such as the replacement of
a porch floor with identical or comparable materials. It also may include other
activities, such as painting.
   PRESERVATION. The act or process of applying measures to sustain the
existing form, integrity, and material of a building or structure, and the
existing form and vegetative cover of a site. It may include initial
stabilization work, where necessary, as well as continued maintenance of the
historic building materials.
   REHABILITATION. The act or process of returning a property to a state of
utility through repair or alteration which makes possible an efficient
contemporary use, while preserving those portions or features of the property
which are significant to its historical, architectural and cultural values.
   RELOCATION. Any change in the location of a building, structure or object.
   RESTORATION. The act or process of accurately recovering the form and
details of a property and its setting as it appeared at a particular period of
time by means of the removal of later work or by the replacement of missing
earlier work.
   SITE. The location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historic
occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined or
vanished, where the location itself possesses historical, cultural or
archaeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure.
   STRUCTURE. Used to distinguish from building those functional constructions
made usually for purposes other than creating human shelter.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 151.03 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created a Commission to be known as the "Historic
Preservation Commission".
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of five members, to be appointed by the
City Council, to the extent available among the residents of the community.
Possible representatives include: an architect, planner, representative of
design profession, historian, licensed real estate broker, attorney and an
owner of a landmark or of a property in a historic district.
   (B)   All Commission members, regardless of background, shall have a known
and demonstrated interest, competence or knowledge in historic preservation
within the city.
   (C)   The Commission should generally reflect the ethnic makeup of the city,
when possible.
   (D)   Commission members shall serve for a term of at least two years, with
the exception that the initial term of three members shall be three years, and
two members shall be two years (to achieve a staggered term).
   (E)   The Chair and the Vice Chair of the Commission may be elected by and
from the members of the Commission.
   (F)   The Commission shall be empowered to:
      (1)   Make recommendations for employment of staff and professional
consultants as necessary to carry out the duties of the Commission;
      (2)   Prepare rules and procedures as necessary to carry out the business
of the Commission, as ratified by the City Council;
      (3)   Adopt criteria for the designation of historic, architectural and
cultural landmarks and the delineation of historic districts, as ratified by
the City Council;
      (4)   Conduct surveys and maintain an inventory of significant historic,
architectural and cultural landmarks and all properties located in historic
districts within the city;
      (5)   Recommend the designation of resources as landmarks and historic
districts;
      (6)   Create committees from its membership and delegate to these
committees responsibilities to carry out the purposes of this chapter;
      (7)   Maintain written minutes which record all actions taken by the
Commission and the reasons for taking those actions;
      (8)   Recommend conferral of recognition upon the owners of landmarks or
properties within districts by means of certificates, plaques or markers;
      (9)   Increase public awareness of the value of historic, cultural and
architectural preservation by developing and participating in public education
programs;
      (10)   Make recommendations to the city government concerning the
utilization of state, federal or private funds to promote the preservation of
landmarks and historic districts within the city;
      (11)   Approve or disapprove applications for certificates of
appropriateness pursuant to this chapter;
      (12)   Prepare and submit to the City Council a report, annually in
October, summarizing the Commission's work during the previous year;
      (13)   Prepare specific design guidelines for possible landmarks and
districts; and
      (14)   Accept on behalf of the city government the donation of
preservation easements and development rights as well as any other gift of
value for the purpose of historic preservation, subject to the approval of the
City Council.
   (G)   The Commission shall meet at least monthly. Special meetings may be
called at any time by the Chairperson or on the written request of any two
Commission members. All meetings shall be held in conformance with the State
Open Meetings Act, Tex. Gov’t Code, Ch. 551.
   (H)   A quorum for the transaction of business shall consist of not less
than a majority of the full authorized membership.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008; Ord. 2023-01-05-02, passed 1-5-2023)
Cross-reference:
   Boards, commissions and committees, see
Ch. 35
§ 151.04 APPOINTMENT OF HISTORIC RESERVATION OFFICER.
   (A)   The Commission, with the approval of the City Council or a designee,
shall appoint a qualified city official, city staff person or volunteer to
serve as Historic Preservation Officer. This Officer shall administer this
chapter and advise the Commission on matters submitted to it. The City Building
Official will serve as the Historic Preservation Officer if a separate Officer
has not been designated.
   (B)   In addition to serving as representative of the Commission, the
Officer is responsible for coordinating the city's preservation activities with
those of state and federal agencies and with local, state and national
nonprofit preservation organizations.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 151.05 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC LANDMARKS.
   (A)   These provisions pertaining to the designation of historic landmarks
constitutes a part of the comprehensive zoning plan of the city. The
designation of a historic landmark may be proposed by the owner of a proposed
landmark, the Council, or the Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall conduct a public hearing on a proposed
designation of a historic landmark. The owner of the proposed historic
landmarks shall be notified prior to the Commission hearing on the proposed
designation. At the Commission's public hearing, the owner, interested parties
and technical experts may present testimony or documentary evidence which will
become part of a record regarding the historic, architectural or cultural
importance of the proposed landmark.
   (C)   If the Commission recommends the designation of a historic landmark,
the proposed designation shall be submitted to the Zoning Commission within 30
days from the date of the Commission's recommendation. The Zoning Commission
shall conduct its hearing on the proposed designation within 45 days of receipt
of the recommendation from the Commission under the same procedures as provided
in
Chapter 155 of this Code for changes in zoning district boundaries. The Zoning
Commission shall make its recommendation on the proposed designation to the
City Council within 45 days after the hearing on the proposed designation. As
provided in
Chapter 155 of this Code, the Zoning Commission and Council may conduct a joint
public hearing on the proposed designation.
   (D)   The City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed
designation within 45 days of the recommendation of the Zoning Commission under
the same procedures as provided in
Chapter 155 of this Code for changes in zoning district boundaries.
   (E)   Upon designation of a building, object, site, or structure as a
historic landmark, the City Secretary shall cause the designation to be
recorded in the official real property records of the county as well as the
official zoning map of the city. All zoning maps should indicate the designated
landmarks with an appropriate mark.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 151.06 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   These provisions pertaining to the designation of historic districts
constitute a part of the comprehensive zoning plan of the city. The designation
of a historic district may be proposed by the owners of all or a portion of the
property in the proposed district, the Council, or the Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall conduct a public hearing on a proposed
designation of a historic district. The owners of all property within a
proposed historic district shall be notified prior to the Commission hearing on
the proposed designation. At the Commission's public hearing, the owners,
interested parties and technical experts may present testimony or documentary
evidence which will become part of a record regarding the historic,
architectural or cultural importance of the proposed historic district.
   (C)   The Commission may recommend the designation of a district if the
Commission finds that it:
      (1)   Contains properties and an environmental setting which meet one or
more of the criteria for designation of a landmark; and
      (2)   Constitutes a distinct geographic area of the city.
   (D)   If the Commission recommends the designation of a historic district,
the proposed designation shall be submitted to the Zoning Commission within 30
days of the date of the Commission recommendation. The Zoning Commission shall
conduct its hearing on the proposed designation within 45 days of receipt of
the recommendation from the Commission, under the same procedures as
specifically provided in
Chapter 155 of this Code for changes in zoning district boundaries. The Zoning
Commission shall make its recommendation to the City Council within 45 days
after the hearing on the proposed designation. As provided in
Chapter 155 of this Code, the Zoning Commission and Council may conduct a joint
public hearing on the proposed designation.
   (E)   The City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed
designation within 45 days of the recommendation of the Zoning Commission under
the same procedures provided in
Chapter 155 of this Code for changes in zoning district boundaries.
   (F)   Upon designation of a historic district, the City Secretary shall
cause the designated boundaries to be recorded in the official real property
records of the county, as well as the official zoning map of the city. All maps
should indicate the designated historic district by an appropriate mark.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 151.07 CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC LANDMARKS AND DISTRICTS.
   A historic landmark or historic district may be designated if it:
   (A)   Possesses significance in history, architecture, archeology and/or
culture;
   (B)   Is associated with events that have made a significant contribution to
the broad patterns of local, regional, state or national history;
   (C)   Is associated with significant events in the city's past;
   (D)   Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period or method
of construction;
   (E)   Represents the work of a master designer, builder or crafter; or
   (F)   Represents an established and familiar visual feature of the city.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 151.08 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   For a historic landmark, and for a building, structure or object, in a
historic district, a certificate of appropriateness will be required for
proposed construction or renovation to ensure compatibility with the existing
historic resources of the district.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to carry or cause to be carried out, out
any exterior construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration,
rehabilitation, relocation or demolition of any historic landmark or any
building, structure or object within a historic district that is visible from a
public right-of-way; or to make, or cause to be made, any material change in an
exterior element of a historic landmark or a building, structure or object
within a historic district that is visible from a public right-of-way, without
first having complied with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that the work
being carried out was limited to ordinary maintenance.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OF A CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   In considering an application for a certificate of appropriateness, the
Commission shall be guided by the design guidelines adopted by the Commission
and approved by the Council, and where applicable, the Secretary of the
Interior's Standards of Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings (Appendix B). The
adopted design guideline and Secretary of the Interior's standards shall be
made available to the property owners of historic landmarks or within historic
districts.
   (A)   Unless an alteration contributes to the appearance and cohesiveness of
any historic landmark or any property within a historic district, every
reasonable effort shall be made to adapt the property in a manner which
requires minimal alteration of the building, structure or object and its
environment.
   (B)   Unless an alteration contributes to the appearance and cohesiveness of
any historic landmark or any property within a historic district, the
distinguishing original qualities or character of a building, structure or
object and its environment, shall not be destroyed. The removal or alteration
of any historic material or distinctive architectural features should be
avoided when possible.
   (C)   All buildings, structures and objects shall be recognized as products
of their own time.
   (D)   Changes which may have taken place in the course of time may be
evidence of the history and development of a building, structure, object or
site and its environment. These changes may have acquired significance in their
own right, and this significance shall be considered.
   (E)   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
which characterize a building, structure, object or site shall be kept where
possible.
   (F)   Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired rather than
replaced, wherever possible. In the event replacement is necessary, the new
material ideally should reflect the material being replaced in composition,
design, color, texture and other visual qualities, taking into consideration
economic and technical feasibility of the materials. Repair or replacement of
missing architectural features should be based on accurate duplications of
features, substantiated by historical, physical or pictorial evidence rather
than on conjectural designs or the availability of different architectural
elements from other buildings or structures.
   (G)   The surface cleaning of structures shall be undertaken with the
gentlest means possible. Sandblasting and other cleaning methods that will
damage the historical materials shall not be undertaken.
   (H)   Every reasonable effort shall be made to protect and preserve
archeological resources affected by, or adjacent to, any project.
   (I)   Appropriate design for alterations and additions to existing
properties shall not be discouraged when such alterations and additions do not
destroy significant historical, architectural or cultural material, and the
design is compatible with the size, scale, material and character of the
property, neighborhood or environment.
   (J)   Whenever possible, new additions or alterations to buildings,
structures, objects or sites shall be done in a manner that if the additions or
alterations were to be removed in the future, the essential form and integrity
of the building, structure, object or site would be unimpaired.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 151.10 CERTIFICATION OF APPROPRIATENESS APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Prior to the commencement of any work requiring a certificate of
appropriateness, the owner shall file an application for a certificate with the
Preservation Officer. The application shall contain:
      (1)   Name, address, telephone number of applicant, detailed description
of proposed work;
      (2)   Location and photograph of the property and adjacent properties and
any available historical photographs;
      (3)   Elevation drawings of the proposed changes, if available;
      (4)   Pictures, brochures or physical samples of materials to be used;
      (5)   If the proposal includes signs or lettering, a scale drawing
showing the type of lettering to be used, all dimensions and colors, a
description of materials to be used, method of illumination (if any), and a
plan showing the sign's location on the property;
      (6)   Any other information which the Preservation Officer may deem
necessary in order to visualize the proposed work; and
      (7)   If the applicant so desires, a request that the Commission expedite
the application, and a list of the reasons why.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for the proposed work until a
certificate of appropriateness has first been issued by the Commission. The
certificate of appropriateness required by this act shall be in addition to,
and not in lieu of, any building permit that may be required by any other
ordinance of the city.
   (C)   The Commission shall review the application at a regularly scheduled
or special meeting within 30 days from the date the application is received, at
which time an opportunity will be provided for the applicant to be heard. The
Commission shall act upon the certificate of appropriateness, with possible
modifications, within 30 days after the review meeting. In the event the
Commission does not act within 60 days of the receipt of the application, a
certificate of appropriateness shall be deemed granted. The Commission's
decision is limited to those decisions stated in the ordinance, i.e., approve,
deny or approve with modifications.
   (D)   Decisions of the Commission shall be in writing. The Commission's
decision shall state its findings pertaining to the approval, denial or
modification of the application. A copy shall be provided to the applicant.
Additional copies shall be filed as part of the public record on that property
and dispersed to appropriate departments, e.g., building inspection.
   (E)   An applicant for a certificate of appropriateness dissatisfied with
the action of the Commission relating the issuance or denial of a certificate
of appropriateness shall have the right to appeal to the City Council within 30
days after receipt of notification of that action. The City Council shall
follow the same procedures and use the same criteria as the Commission in
making a decision on the application.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 151.11 REQUIREMENT FOR DEMOLITION; CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   A permit for the demolition of a historic landmark or a building, structure
or object within a historic district, including secondary building and major
landscape features, shall not be granted by the Building Official (or other
city official) unless and until a decision is made on an application for a
certificate of appropriateness by the Commission, as provided for in §§
151.08,
151.09 and
151.10 above.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 151.12 ECONOMIC HARDSHIP APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   After receiving notice from the Commission of the denial of
certificate of appropriateness, an applicant may submit and economic hardship
application. No building permit or demolition permit may be issued for an
activity for which a certificate of appropriateness was denied unless the
Commission approves an economic hardship application.
   (B)   When an economic hardship application is submitted, the owner must
prove that:
      (1)   The property is incapable of earning a reasonable return on
investment, regardless of whether that return represents the most profitable
return possible;
      (2)   The property cannot be adapted for any other use, whether by the
current owner or by a purchaser, which would result in a reasonable return on
investment; and
      (3)   Reasonable efforts to find a purchaser interested in acquiring the
property and preserving it have been made and have failed. The applicant shall
consult in good faith with the Commission, local preservation groups and
interested parties in a diligent effort to seek an alternative that will result
in preservation of the property. Those efforts must be demonstrated to the
Commission.
   (C)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing on the application within
60 days from the date the application is determined to be complete by the
Preservation Officer. Following the hearing, the Commission will have 30 days
in which to make a decision on the application. In the event that the
Commission does not make a decision within 90 days of the receipt of the
application, a building or demolition permit may be granted.
   (D)   Decisions of the Commission will be in writing and will state the
reasons for granting or denying the application. A copy shall be provided to
the applicant and a copy filed with the City Secretary.
   (E)   An applicant dissatisfied with the action of the Commission on a
hardship application has the right to appeal to the City Council by filing a
written notice within 30 days after the Commission's decision. The City Council
will hear the appeal using the same procedures and criteria as those specified
in this section for the Commission.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 151.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   All work performed pursuant to a certificate of appropriateness issued under
this chapter shall conform to any requirements included therein. It shall be
the duty of the Preservation Officer to inspect periodically any work to assure
completeness. In the event work is not being performed in accordance with the
certificate of appropriateness, or upon notification of that fact by the
Commission and verification by the Preservation Officer, the Preservation
Officer shall issue a stop-work order and all work shall immediately cease. No
further work shall be undertaken on the project until the stop-work order is
rescinded.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 151.14 ORDINARY MAINTENANCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance of any exterior architectural feature or landscaping of a landmark
or a building, structure, or object within a historical district which does not
involve a change in design, material or exterior appearance. Replacement or
repair using the same or comparable materials, is included ordinary
maintenance. New colors may be included as ordinary maintenance, as long as the
new color is in keeping with the historical aspect of the property.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 151.15 DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner of real property designated as a landmark
or within a historic district to permit the property to fall into a state of
disrepair such that the deterioration of any exterior architectural feature
which would, in the judgment of the Commission, produce a detrimental effect
upon the historic district as a whole or the life and character of the property
itself.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner of real property designated as a landmark
or within a historic district to cause or allow demolition by neglect which is
the deterioration of any exterior feature so as to create a hazardous condition
which could lead to a claim that demolition is necessary for the public safety.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   A person commits an offense if the person violates the provisions of this
chapter and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500. Each day in which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 08-341, passed 1-22-2008)
CHAPTER 152: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose and objectives
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Applicability
   
152.04   Jurisdiction
   
152.05   Administration
   
152.06   Prohibited signs and locations
   
152.07   Signs exempt from this chapter
   
152.08   Measurement, standards and construction
   
152.09   Permits and variances
   
152.10   Nonconforming signs
   
152.11   Required address signs
   
152.12   Substitution of message allowed
   
152.13   Civil enforcement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide clear regulations for the
permitting, restricting, design, location, construction, erection,
modification, use, maintenance and removal of signs in the city and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ). The objectives are to encourage the
effective use of signs as a means of communication in the city, to maintain and
enhance the community's overall aesthetic environment, to improve pedestrian
and traffic safety, to minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby
public and private property, and to enable the fair and consistent enforcement
of these sign regulations.
(Ord. 08-342, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTACHED SIGN. A sign permanently affixed to a building.
   BANDIT SIGN. A sign, other than an official sign posted by the city, another
governmental entity, or a public utility, that is placed in public right of
way, whether by posting on an object such as a utility pole, street sign,
street furniture, or tree, or by placement in the ground.
   BANNER SIGN. Any sign made of fabric, plastic or other non-rigid material
designed to hang from rope or wire to advertise a business, service or special
event and not mounted in a permanent rigid frame.
   BILLBOARD. An off-premise sign on any flat surface erected on a framework or
on any structure, or attached to posts and used for, or designed to be used
for, the display of advertising material.
   BUILDING. An enclosed structure intended for occupancy as a residence,
business, institution or governmental facility as the principal use. BUILDING
shall not be construed to mean an outbuilding or accessory storage building.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign permanently attached to or constructed in or on
the ground.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign that, at the time of its erection, was in
compliance with law and with the regulations of the city, if any, that existed
at the time of its erection, but which does not conform to the regulations set
forth in this chapter. It is the intent of this chapter that legal
NONCONFORMING SIGNS will not be made illegal by the adoption of this chapter.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A freestanding or attached sign displaying advertising
copy that pertains to a business, person, organization, activity, event, place,
service or product not principally located or primarily manufactured or sold on
the premises on which the sign is located.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A freestanding or attached sign identifying or advertising
a business, person or activity, and installed and maintained on the same
premises as the business, person or activity.
   OWNER. A person recorded as the property owner on official records. The
OWNER of property on which a sign is located is presumed to be the owner of the
sign unless facts to the contrary are officially recorded.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A transportable sign of durable construction on wheels,
skids, legs, stake(s) or framing, including trailers, used for advertising or
promotional purposes, which is not primarily designed or intended to be
permanently affixed to the ground, a building or structure, but which can be so
anchored. See TEMPORARY SIGN.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign mounted or placed on the roof of a building that is
designed, intended or used to advertise or inform.
   SIGN. An outdoor structure, sign, display, light device, figure, painting,
drawing, message, plaque, poster, billboard or other thing that is designed,
intended or used to advertise or inform.
   STAKE SIGN. A sign that is by its very nature, temporary and affixed to a
wooden or metal stake or frame that is placed in the ground.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A portable sign erected of durable construction on wheels,
skids, legs, stake(s) or framing, including trailers, used for advertising or
promotional purposes, and which is not primarily designed or intended to be
permanently affixed to the ground, a building or a structure. See PORTABLE
SIGN.
(Ord. 08-342, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or place a sign within
the city limits of the city or its extraterritorial jurisdiction except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   A sign may be erected, placed, established, painted, created or
maintained in the city and its ETJ only in conformance with the standards,
procedures, exemptions and other requirements of this chapter. These
regulations apply to both commercial and noncommercial messages.
   (C)   The effect of this chapter is to prohibit the creation, erection or
placement of signs not expressly permitted or exempted by this chapter, except
as approved through the permit and variance process established by this
chapter.
(Ord. 08-342, passed 3-4-2008) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter governs all signs within the city limits and within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) of the city.
(Ord. 08-342, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Building Official is responsible for the administration of this chapter
to include issuing required sign permits, processing specific use permits,
variances and appeals.
(Ord. 08-342, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.06 PROHIBITED SIGNS AND LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited signs.
      (1)   Off-premises signs except as exempted in §
152.07;
      (2)   Temporary and portable signs except as exempted in §
152.07;
      (3)   Stake signs, except those exempted by §
152.07(I), (J), (K), (M), (R) or (T);
      (4)   Roof signs;
      (5)   Bandit signs are declared to be abandoned trash at the time of
posting and may be removed and discarded without notice;
      (6)   Signs on fences, except for temporary banners for outdoor athletic
events, outdoor entertainment events or for public gatherings except as
provided by §
152.07(Q);
      (7)   Flags exceeding 48 square feet in size;
      (8)   Flashing, fluttering, undulating, swinging, rotating or otherwise
moving sign or sign surfaces, except for electronic scrolling or changing signs
displaying at least 50% noncommercial messages such as time, temperature and
community events of general public interest;
      (9)   Strings of lights not affixed to a rigid structural support or
suspended from some structural support which eliminates load stresses from any
electrical element, except as provided by §
152.07(P);
      (10)   Any sign lighting, other than neon tube lighting, that causes any
direct or undiffused illumination to be visible from any roadway or any
residential district;
      (11)   Any sign or portion thereof located within a ten-foot radius of
any overhead power line, pole or crossbar, or creating a hazard to vehicular or
pedestrian safety;
      (12)   Inflatable signs or tethered balloons;
      (13)   Signs emitting odor, visible matter or audible sound;
      (14)   Pennants or streamers; or
      (15)   Beacons.
   (B)   Prohibited locations. Unless required by law or otherwise allowed or
permitted by these regulations, no sign or appurtenance thereof shall be placed
in the following locations or areas:
      (1)   On, over, within or across a public street or right-of-way, except
for:
         (a)   Development identification signs, marquee signs and wall signs,
where allowed;
         (b)   Signs authorized or required by the local, state or federal
government; and
         (c)   Banners as provided in §
152.07(P) below.
      (2)   On, over, within or across any land held in trust for the use of
the public by any governmental or quasi-governmental agency;
      (3)   Any utility pole, street light, street sign or traffic control
device or tree; or
      (4)   Adjacent to TX 80, TX 142 and FM 1979 except for exemptions listed
in §
152.07 below, or commercial, on-premise signs in accordance with §
152.08 below.
(Ord. 08-342, passed 3-4-2008) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Noncommercial, off-premises, freestanding signs, not exceeding a
cumulative total of ten square feet, for governmental, religious, educational
or other institutional agencies approved by the City Council;
   (B)   Any public notice or warning required by any federal, state or local
law, regulation or ordinance;
   (C)   Signs erected by or for a governmental body to direct or regulate
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, identify public property or convey public
information;
   (D)   Traffic control signs, not exceeding 12 square feet per driveway
entrance, on private property, containing no commercial message other than the
name or logo of a business or facility on the property;
   (E)   Informational signs of utility and pipeline companies primarily
providing for location, caution, and warning concerning lines, facilities and
appurtenances;
   (F)   Memorial signs or tablets and building markers displayed on public or
private buildings and lands;
   (G)   Bus stop signs that contain no commercial message;
   (H)   Street and mailbox addresses related to the referenced structure or
appurtenances and which contain no commercial message;
   (I)   Temporary construction site signs not exceeding six square feet per
street frontage of each lot, or 32 square feet per entrance to a new
subdivision containing more than ten lots, for single-family or duplex
construction, and 32 square feet for all other uses, per lot. All such signs
shall be removed within seven days following completion of the construction;
   (J)   A sign that contains primarily a political message and that is located
on private real property with the consent of the property owner, if the sign is
36 square feet or less in area and eight feet or less in height, is not
illuminated, and contains no moving elements;
   (K)   Real estate signs not exceeding six square feet for single-family,
manufactured home or duplex dwellings, or 32 square feet for all other uses,
per lot or structure or portion of structure for sale or lease. The signs shall
be removed within 15 days after the sale or lease is completed;
   (L)   One or more temporary attached and/or low profile freestanding signs,
including banner signs, not exceeding a total of 32 square feet aggregate sign
area on the premises of a homebuilder's sales office within a new residential
subdivision. The signs shall be removed upon disconnection of electric service
for the building, or upon discontinued occupancy of the building as a sales
office for 30 consecutive calendar days, whichever occurs first;
   (M)   "Garage sale" signs that do not exceed a total area of four square
feet on the site of the sale, with no more than four signs directing the public
to the sale site, and displayed only during actual sale hours. No signs will
remain on display to the public for more than 72 continuous hours;
   (N)   Signs on private property not exceeding one square foot in area. There
shall be no more than one such sign per 100 linear feet of property line;
   (O)   Works of art which do not include any commercial message;
   (P)   Temporary lights and decorations containing no commercial message and
customarily associated with any national, state, local or religious holiday;
   (Q)   Banners suspended over streets or temporary signs on public rights-of-
way or public or private property, advertising noncommercial special events and
festivities of general public interest, and sponsored by governmental,
educational, religious, civic or nonprofit groups, for a period not to exceed
30 days, and subject to approval by the City Council;
   (R)   Estate sale signs, which advertise liquidation of an estate by a
business entity normally in the business of liquidating estates, under the
following limitations:
      (1)   No more than four signs directing the public to the sale site;
      (2)   No sign exceeding six square feet;
      (3)   No sign to remain on display to the public for more than 72
continuous hours; and
      (4)   No sign to be placed on any public right-of-way.
   (S)   One permanent non-illuminated sign not exceeding two square feet per
residential dwelling unit or business occupancy;
   (T)   One temporary sign not connected to any source of electrical power,
not exceeding six square feet per residential dwelling unit or business
occupancy, and displayed for no more than 120 days in any calendar year, that
contains only a noncommercial message celebrating a birthday, personal
achievement, school spirit and the like;
   (U)   Signs on vending machines, gasoline pumps and amusement equipment
pertaining to the function of the facilities;
   (V)   Non-illuminated on-premise signs not exceeding a cumulative total of
32 square feet in area on trailers or portable buildings containing an
accessory use temporarily located on the premises of a nonresidential use,
provided that the signs pertain to the use of the trailer or portable building;
   (W)   Temporary window displays consisting of merchandise or posters in
nonresidential districts;
   (X)   Flags not exceeding 48 square feet per side; and
   (Y)   Signs that are not visible from a public street or that are on an
indoor wall visible through a window from a public street and which are at
least 12 inches from the window.
(Ord. 08-342, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.08 MEASUREMENT, STANDARDS AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Sign measurement.
      (1)   The face of a sign is any portion or facet capable of displaying a
message whether by letters, numbers or symbols.
      (2)   The area of a sign face shall be the largest area visible from any
one point, and enclosed by a single continuous perimeter including any framing,
trim or decorative embellishments, but not including any structural parts lying
outside the limits of the sign that do not form an integral part of the display
and which have a cross-sectional width no greater than 18 inches.
      (3)   The height of a freestanding sign, as described in division (B)(3)
below, shall be the distance from the ground at the base of or below the sign
to the highest part of the sign face, as defined above, or to the top of the
supporting structure, whichever is greater.
         (a)   Freestanding signs located on earth berms shall be measured from
the ground level at the base of the earth berm. The top of an attached sign, as
described in division (B)(1) below, shall be considered the highest part of the
sign face, as defined above.
         (b)   The clearance of a sign is measured as the unobstructed distance
from the ground at the base of or below the sign to the lowest part of the sign
face, or to the bottom of the supporting structure, whichever is less.
      (4)   The building facade area upon which the maximum allowable area of
attached signs is based in division (B)(1) below is the actual square feet of
the building wall or other vertical architectural element to which the sign is
attached, and that consists of a separate elevation from ground level to the
top of the structure as viewed horizontally from the ground, street or other
nearby location. The area of a facade includes windows and doors, and the like,
but does not include roof surfaces. Separate walls of a building oriented in
the same direction or within 45 degrees of each other shall be considered part
of the same facade.
   (B)   Sign standards.
      (1)   Attached signs. The following signs are attached to, applied on or
supported by, any part of a building. The maximum amount of attached sign area
per building or building occupancy (portion of building facade allocated to a
lease space in a multi-tenant building) will not exceed 100 square feet.
      (2)   Wall sign. Wall signs shall not extend above the highest point of
the building roof, canopy or other structure on which the sign is displayed.
The highest point of the roof, canopy or structure shall not include spires,
belfries, cupolas, antennae, water tanks, ventilators, chimneys, mechanical
systems or other similar appurtenances. A sign projecting from a building face
shall be considered a wall sign for the purposes of this chapter.
      (3)   Freestanding signs. The following signs are affixed to the ground,
or mounted or applied on a fence, retaining wall or screening wall that is not
part of a building. The maximum number of freestanding sign structures allowed
on each property is one per street frontage. Sign shall not exceed a height of
20 feet above the ground at the base of or below the sign, and will not exceed
100 square feet in size. No setback from the property line is required except
for corner sight triangle areas or easements, where the sign structure is not
allowed.
      (4)   Institutional signs. Commercial attached or low profile
freestanding signs not exceeding a cumulative total of 60 square feet in area
per street frontage may be displayed on the premises of governmental,
educational, religious or other permitted institutional uses where the signs
would not otherwise be allowed in the residential zoning districts.
      (5)   Community entrance signs. One or more signs may be erected at
entrances to the city on U.S. Highway 80 and State Highway 142, upon approval
by the City Council, identifying public facilities and services, or nonprofit
organizations such as churches and civic clubs, that are available or located
within the city limits. The City Council may limit the size of individual
signs, and may require them to be consolidated or a single structure per
highway entrance location. Locations under the jurisdiction of the State
Department of Transportation shall comply with any applicable state permit
requirements.
      (6)   Development entrance signs. A maximum of two attached or low-
profile freestanding signs not exceeding a total of 60 square feet aggregate
sign area, and limited to the name, address and leasing or sales information,
may be displayed along the perimeter street frontage at each street entrance to
a residential subdivision or permitted manufactured home park where signs of
that size would not otherwise be allowed in the residential zoning districts,
as applicable. The signs located in the public street right-of-way shall
require license agreement approved by the city.
      (7)   Residential identification signs. One attached or low-profile
freestanding sign not exceeding 16 square feet in a residential zoning
district, per driveway/street entrance or per street frontage, whichever is
greater, and limited to the name, address and leasing or sales information for
the development, may be displayed on the premises of a residential multi-
family, condominium or townhouse development.
      (8)   Banner signs. No more than one banner sign not exceeding 32 square
feet is allowed per street frontage of each business or agency occupant.
Banners are allowed on private property as further provided below:
         (a)   For advertising special promotions, grand openings or other
events of a specific duration not to exceed 30 days, in the commercial zoning
districts. Banner signs in the extraterritorial jurisdiction shall be regulated
as if located in the commercial zoning district; and
         (b)   For advertising grand openings and business anniversaries, only
in the commercial zoning districts for a period not exceeding 30 calendar days
and subject to issuance of a sign permit.
   (C)   Construction standards.
      (1)   All signs shall be constructed so that they will not disintegrate
or collapse when subject to a wind velocity of 60 mph.
      (2)   Signs placed along state and federal highways shall meet all
requirements of the State Department of Transportation, in addition to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   All construction and wiring shall be in compliance with the
currently adopted building and electrical codes of the city in effect at the
time of sign permit application.
(Ord. 08-342, passed 3-4-2008) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 PERMITS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any sign to be constructed upon property abutting any state or federal
highway shall require either the appropriate approval from the State Department
of Transportation or a statement from the permittee that no such action is
necessary.
   (B)   Except for signs that are exempt from this chapter under §
152.07 above, any sign constructed, erected, placed, repaired or modified
within any area subject to these regulations shall require a sign permit in
accordance with the provisions for building permits in the Building Code
Ordinance.
   (C)   A sign permit fee is established by City Council, shall be paid at the
time the permit is issued. Permit fees shall be based on the following
schedule.
 
Total Square Feet of Advertising Space
for Permanent Freestanding Sign and    Fee
Value of Sign
1 to 100 and value up to $10,000       $80
                                       Per building permit schedule contained
1 to 100 and value over $10,000        in
                                       Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances
Banners and all other signs            $80
 
   (D)   When a specific use permit is required for the construction, erection,
placement, repair or modification of a sign, the permit shall require
application and processing in accordance with the Building Code Ordinance. The
Building Official, sitting as the Sign Review Board, and in accordance with the
Building Code Ordinance, shall take action upon the request.
   (E)   Any person desiring relief from the specific terms of this chapter or
from any action or order in the administration or enforcement herein may make
application for a variance under procedures for variances in the Zoning
Ordinance, and the processing of the application and notice to adjoining
parcels shall comply with that ordinance. The City Council, sitting as the Sign
Board of Appeals, and in accordance with the procedures for variances in the
Zoning Ordinance, shall take action upon the application for variance.
(Ord. 08-342, passed 3-4-2008; Ord. 2016-1206, passed 12-6-2016) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   A nonconforming sign may continue in use, subject to the provisions of
this section. A nonconforming sign shall be removed within 30 days if the sign,
or a substantial part of it, is damaged or dismantled for any purpose other
than maintenance operations or for changing the letters, symbols or other
matter on the sign. For purposes of this section, a sign or substantial part of
it is considered to have been damaged only if the cost of repairing the sign is
more than 60% of the cost of erecting a new sign of the same type at the same
location.
   (B)   A nonconforming sign that is abandoned, as evidenced by cessation in
commerce of the firm or product advertised or by deterioration of the message
thereon, to greater than 60% loss of legibility, as determined by the Building
Official, shall be removed, repaired or made to conform to current sign
regulations, at the sole expense of the real property and/or sign owner, within
30 days of notification of the condition. An additional period may be allowed
by the Building Official for that action, upon good cause shown.
   (C)   Voluntary removal of a nonconforming sign shall terminate
nonconforming rights for the sign, and it shall not be replaced unless the
replacement conforms to all provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   It is the intent of the City Council that this provision shall comply
with the provisions of Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, § 216.013, as it may be amended
from time to time, and it is not the intention of the City Council for the
regulations of this chapter to require the city to pay compensation for a
relocated sign within the meaning of Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, Ch. 216.
(Ord. 08-342, passed 3-4-2008) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 REQUIRED ADDRESS SIGNS.
   Each developed premises or occupancy within the city that has an assigned
street address shall have the street address numerals displayed in a location
and manner which is readable from the street upon which it is addressed.
Authorized locations for the display of street address numerals include other
signs allowed by this chapter, mailboxes, fences or walls, and building walls.
New construction shall comply with this provision prior to the receipt of a
certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 08-342, passed 3-4-2008) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.12 SUBSTITUTION OF MESSAGE ALLOWED.
   (A)    A sign containing a noncommercial message is allowed in any instance
in which a sign with a commercial message is allowed, subject to the same
regulations applicable to the sign with the commercial message.
   (B)    A sign containing a commercial message is allowed in any instance in
which a sign with a noncommercial message is allowed, subject to the same
regulations applicable to the sign with the noncommercial message.
§ 152.13 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   If a sign is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired,
converted or maintained, or if a sign is used in violation of this chapter, the
City Council may, in addition to other remedies, institute an appropriate civil
action to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use to restrain, correct or
abate the violation or to prevent the use of the sign or prevent any illegal
act, conduct, business or use on or about the premises. The city shall be
entitled to recover its reasonable attorney's fees and expenses for prosecuting
any action to a successful conclusion.
(Ord. 08-342, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person found guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount not to exceed
$500. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any city employee or agent, acting on authority granted by the City
Council is empowered to immediately remove any illegally placed or prohibited
sign without notice, and at the sole expense of the owner and/or real property
owner.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to seek all appropriate legal recourse
by way of injunctive or other appropriate relief in addition to any other
penalties and enforcement provided in this section.
(Ord. 08-342, passed 3-4-2008)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
153.08   Establishment of development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Interpretation
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.25   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.26   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.27   Permit procedures
   
153.28   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.40   General standards
   
153.41   Specific standards
   
153.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
153.43   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones)
   
153.44   Floodways
   
153.45   Severability
Recreational Vehicles
   
153.50   Definitions
   
153.51   Habitation of recreational vehicles
   
153.52   Prohibition in the regulatory floodway
   
153.53   Recreational vehicle permit requirements in the 100-year floodplain
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 150
   Subdivision Regulations, see
Chapter 154
   Zoning Code, see
Chapter 155
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in the Flood Control Insurance Act, Tex.
Water Code, § 16.315, delegated the responsibility of local governmental units
to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan, or similar landform, below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100 year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on a
community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed
rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year; also called the BASE FLOOD .
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended, through its design and construction, to collapse
under specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated
portion of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved and unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION  may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES .
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD OR FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY .
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of FLOODING ).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of
the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane
tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood
modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering
standards.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY .
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities and port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program, as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior or;
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis; 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD .
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE , regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements see 44 C.F.R. § 60.6 of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city, including the city limits and the city’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
"The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Martindale, Texas," dated June 19, 2012,
with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and/or Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps
(FIRM and/or FBFM) dated December 30, 2020, and any revisions thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012; Ord. 2021-01-19-01, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 153.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of the
governing body, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.25 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council, by resolution, will appoint a person to serve as the
Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this
chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R. (Emergency Management and
Assistance-National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.26 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain, and hold open for public inspection, all records
pertaining to the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
      (4)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval is required;
      (5)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation;
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency, which is the Texas Water Development Board (TWDB) and also
the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (7)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
      (8)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
153.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
153.40 et seq; and
      (9)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
   (B)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, § 65.12, of the National
Flood Insurance Program Regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community’s FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided that
the community first completes all of the provisions required by 44 C.F.R. §
65.12.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.27 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
   (B)   Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be flood proofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential flood proofed structure shall meet the flood proofing
criteria of §
153.41(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
153.26(A)(1).
   (C)   Approval or denial of a Floodplain Development Permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.28 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in § 153.32(2) have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (§
153.03).
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon the following conditions:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that the criteria outlined in §
153.27(B)(l) through (9) are met, and the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them, or contamination from them, during flooding.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
153.07,
153.26(A)(8), or
153.42(C), the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division as proposed in §
153.27(B)(1), is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level, or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are flood
proofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. 
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed
areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access or storage in an area other than a basement, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (2)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (3)   Manufactured homes:
         (a)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A
on a community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices
which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured
homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces;
         (b)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed, or
substantially improved within, Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM
on sites outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement; and
         (c)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with
Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of this division above be elevated so that either the lowest floor
of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood elevation, or the
manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other foundation
elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than 36 inches in
height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles:
         (a)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones
A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM either be on the site for fewer than
180 consecutive days, or be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or meet
the permit requirements of §
153.27(B)(1), and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured
homes in this division. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
153.02,
153.03 and
153.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Floodplain
Development Permit requirements of §§
153.08 and
153.27 and the provisions of §§
153.40 et seq.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
153.26 or
153.26(H).
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.43 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES).
   (A)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
153.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,
and where velocity flow may be evident.
   (B)   Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore,
the following provisions apply:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the
base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no
depth number is specified).
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures;
         (a)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no
depth number is specified); or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
designed so that below the base specified flood depth in an AO Zone, or below
the Base Flood Elevation in an AH Zone, level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in §
153.27 are satisfied.
      (4)   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.44 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
153.07 are areas designated as floodways.
   (B)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion
potential, the following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (B)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
153.40 et seq.
      (3)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, § 65.12, of the National
Flood Insurance Program Regulations, a community may permit encroachments
within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base
flood elevations, provided that the community first completes all of the
provisions required by 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, § 65.12.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 153.45 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this chapter is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2019-07-02, passed 7-2-2019)
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 153.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPGROUND. Any lot, tract, or parcel of land, used in whole or in part,
where parking facilities and space accommodations are provided for temporary
occupancy by the day, week, month or for a longer period of time, for or
without compensation, intended for temporary human habitation.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicular-type portable structure without a
permanent foundation that can be towed, hauled or driven which is designed as a
temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use, and
which includes but is not limited to travel-trailers, truck-campers, camping
trailers, and self-propelled motor homes.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN. The area that has a 1% or greater chance of being
inundated by floodwaters in any given year, as designated on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
(Ord. 2023-09-21, passed 9-21-2023)
§ 153.51 HABITATION OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall inhabit in any vehicle or house car on any street,
plaza, park, public property, lot, tract or parcel of land in the city, except
in a permitted campground.
   (B)   A person may park, place or locate a recreational vehicle car on
premises they own or lease when such recreational vehicle is not used for human
habitation, but shall not park, leave or place such house car on public
property including a city street for a longer period than 24 hours, unless
otherwise restricted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to permit wastewater or material from sinks,
showers or other fixtures in a recreational vehicle to be deposited on any
street, plaza, court, or upon any lot within the city other than permitted
campgrounds. Sinks, showers and other similar fixtures in a recreational
vehicle when in use shall be connected with the city sewer system or other
sewage disposal approved by the Health Department, and in compliance with the
plumbing code of the city.
(Ord. 2023-09-21, passed 9-21-2023)
§ 153.52 PROHIBITION IN THE REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or park a recreational vehicle
(RV) within the boundaries of the regulatory floodway as defined in §
153.50.
(Ord. 2023-09-21, passed 9-21-2023)
§ 153.53 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS IN THE 100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   No person shall place or park an RV within the 100-year floodplain as
defined in §
153.50, without obtaining a temporary RV floodplain permit from the city.
   (B)   The temporary RV floodplain permit shall be subject to review and
approval by the city's designated Floodplain Administrator. The application for
such permit shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Applicant’s name, address, phone, and email;
      (2)   Must provide a valid vehicle registration;
      (3)   Proof of ownership of the RV;
      (4)   A site plan showing the proposed location of the RV;
      (5)   Demonstrate design of quick disconnect type utilities, if
applicable;
      (6)   Provide two emergency contacts for the property: requiring name,
address, phone, and email address;
         (a)   Emergency contacts cannot live further than 30 miles from the
placement of the RV.
         (b)   Emergency contacts cannot share the same home address.
         (c)   Both emergency contacts must provide self-identification and
signatures (government issued identification, including but not limited to
driver's license).
      (7)   Signed letter of intent to evacuate the RV within one hour of being
contacted by the city of a significant rain event; and
      (8)   A statement from the owner agreeing whether failure to comply with
this section authorizes the city to evacuate the RV at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   All temporary RV floodplain permits expire February 1 every year.
   (D)   Administrative application fees are $50.
(Ord. 2023-09-21, passed 9-21-2023)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this
chapter by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $500 for each violation and, in addition, shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City
Council from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of any provision of §§
153.50 through
153.53 shall constitute a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be subject to
fines, penalties, and other remedies as may be provided by law.
      (2)   Any violation during an active temporary RV floodplain permit shall
be revoked immediately and must wait one full year to reapply for a temporary
RV floodplain permit.
(Ord. 2012-04-04, passed 5-15-2012;Ord. 2023-09-21, passed 9-21-2023)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Jurisdiction
   
154.003   Adoption of legislative grant of power
   
154.004   Interpretation
   
154.005   Authority of Planning and Zoning Commission
   
154.006   Appeal of Planning and Zoning Commission action
   
154.007   Definitions
   
154.008   Variances
   
154.009   Appeals
   
154.010   Enforcement
Procedure
   
154.020   Plat required; exemptions
   
154.021   Initial application
   
154.022   Determination of completeness
   
154.023   Subdivision Master Plan
   
154.024   Preliminary plat
   
154.025   Final plat
   
154.026   Minor plat
   
154.027   Vacating plat
   
154.028   Replatting without vacating preceding plat
   
154.029   Amending plat
   
154.030   Tax certification
Design Standards
   
154.040   Streets
   
154.041   Alleys
   
154.042   Easements
   
154.043   Blocks
   
154.044   Lots
   
154.045   Sidewalks
   
154.046   Streetlights
   
154.047   Street signs
   
154.048   Flood hazard
   
154.049   Compliance with minimum state standards for safe and sanitary water
supply and sewer services
Community Facilities and Open Spaces
   
154.060   Areas for public use
   
154.061   Land dedication
   
154.062   Fee in lieu of land dedication
General Engineering Standards
   
154.075   Standards for construction
   
154.076   Guarantee of performance
   
154.077   Responsibility for payment of off-site/on-site installation costs
   
154.078   Compliance as prerequisite to various utility service permits
Plats and Engineering Plans
   
154.090   Concept plan
   
154.091   Preliminary plat specifications
   
154.092   Final plat
   
154.093   Engineering plans
Requirements Prior to Acceptance of the Subdivision by the City
   
154.105   Dedication and construction of public infrastructure
   
154.106   Construction plans
   
154.107   Inspection of improvements
   
154.108   Final plans
   
154.109   Guarantee of performance
   
154.110   Performance bond
   
154.111   Maintenance bond
   
154.112   Where bond not prerequisite to approval
   
154.113   Acceptance by city
   
154.114   Issuance of building permits
   
154.115   Deferral or waiver of required improvements
   
154.116   General construction requirements
   
154.117   Ownership and maintenance of completed public facilities
   
154.118   Monuments
Administration; Fees
   
154.130   Schedule of fees
   
154.131   Authority of the City Engineer
   
154.132   Appointment, term and qualifications of Planning and Zoning
Commission
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 PURPOSE.
   In the interpretation and application of the provisions of this chapter, it
is the intention of the Council that the procedures and standards for the
development, layout and design of subdivisions of land are intended to:
   (A)   Promote and develop the utilization of land in a manner to assure the
best possible community environment in accordance with the comprehensive master
plan of the city;
   (B)   Guide and assist the developers in the correct procedures to be
followed and to inform them of the design criteria and standards required;
   (C)   Protect the public interest by controlling the location, design,
class, type of streets, sidewalks, utilities and of essential areas and
services required;
   (D)   Protect and promote the health, safety and general welfare;
   (E)   Provide through the planning and platting process for the protection
and notification of individuals that those properties which are to be developed
are provided with land development which provides for adequate access, solid
waste collection, utility services and guards against potential flood hazards;
and
   (F)   Provide for the public welfare those essential areas required for
educational, recreational, industrial and commercial purposes.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.002 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted under the authority of the Constitution and
laws of the state, including particularly Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, Ch. 212
(Subdivisions), Ch. 242 (Subdivisions in ETJ) and Ch. 42 (Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction).
   (B)   All land subdivided or platted into lots, blocks and streets within
the city or within its extraterritorial jurisdiction, as provided by state law,
shall comply in full with the requirements of this chapter. No plat shall be
filed in the office of the County Clerk for a tract within the city or its
extraterritorial jurisdiction unless it is approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.003 ADOPTION OF LEGISLATIVE GRANT OF POWER.
   (A)   It is the intent of the city to encourage and promote quality
development within the city consistent with the atmosphere and quality of life
currently enjoyed by residents.
   (B)   Development proposals shall be reviewed for conformance with the
city's comprehensive plan and development policy(ies).
   (C)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided lots as
subject to the control of the municipality pursuant to the comprehensive plan
of the city for the orderly, planned, efficient and economical development of
the municipality.
   (D)   Land to be subdivided shall be of a character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire, flood
or other menace, and land shall not be developed until available public
facilities and improvements exist and proper provision has been made for
drainage, water, sewage, roadways and capital improvements such as schools,
parks, recreation facilities and transportation facilities and improvements.
   (E)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the proposals shown in the comprehensive plan or adopted
development policies, and the capital budget and program of the municipality.
It is intended that these regulations shall supplement and facilitate the
enforcement of the provisions and standards contained in building and housing
codes, the comprehensive plan, adopted development plans, the Zoning Ordinance
and the capital improvements program of the city.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.004 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of the provisions of these
regulations, it is the intention of the City Council that the principles,
standards and requirements provided for herein shall be minimum requirements
for the platting and developing of subdivisions in the city and its ETJ, and
where other ordinances of the city are more restrictive in their requirements,
other ordinances shall control. The interpretation and application of the
provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.005 AUTHORITY OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the final approval authority
for consideration of all plats and plans authorized under this chapter. In the
event the city has not established a Planning and Zoning Commission, all
subdivision applications shall be subject to the review and approval of the
City Council.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.006 APPEAL OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION ACTION.
   Any applicant, property owner or other party aggrieved by a finding or
action of the Planning and Zoning Commission may appeal the action to the City
Council within 30 days from the date of the finding or action, and not
thereafter. Nothing in this section shall prevent a right of review by a court
of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When consistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural include the singular number, and words in the singular number include
the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory, while the word "may"
is merely directory. Definitions not expressly prescribed herein are to be
determined in accordance with the law. Definitions expressly prescribed herein
are to be construed in accordance with the city's Zoning Ordinance, or other
applicable ordinances of the city, or in the absence of those ordinances, then
in accordance with customary usage in municipal planning, surveying and
engineering practices.
   ALLEYS. Minor dedicated ways which are used primarily for utility lines and
secondarily for vehicular service access to the back or the side or properties
otherwise abutting on a street.
   APPLICANT. The owner of a tract or parcel of land, or the subdivider,
developer, surveyor, engineer or other authorized agent representing the owner
as appropriate, who submits a plat or who is otherwise subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
   BLOCK. A contiguous area of land that may contain one or more lots, and
which is bounded by any combination of streets, highways, railroad rights-of-
way, parks or other public land, waterways, other physical barrier or exterior
boundary of a subdivision.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line within a property and parallel to a property
line defining the minimum required horizontal distance between a building and
adjacent street right-of-way line or adjacent property lines.
   CITY. The City of Martindale, Texas.
   CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL. The city official, or his or her authorized
representative, designated to take action as prescribed in the ordinance for,
or in, the name of the city.
   CITY PLANNER. The authorized staff representative delegated to take action
as prescribed in this chapter. The City Planner may be a city employee or a
consultant hired as an independent contractor by the city.
   CITY STAFF. Those various persons working for the city, either through
direct employment or contract employment, who are so authorized to represent
various work elements related to their specific expertise.
   COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the city, and is the
authority for the approval of plats under this chapter, unless otherwise
stated.
   COMPREHENSIVE MASTER PLAN.
      (1)   A statement of public policy containing the goals and objectives of
the community;
      (2)   Capital improvements programs;
      (3)   Land use plan;
      (4)   Thoroughfare plan;
      (5)   Community facilities plan; and
      (6)   Subdivision and zoning regulations and other development codes,
ordinances, policies and plans promulgated by the Council for the quality and
orderly growth of the community.
   CONCEPT PLAN. A scale drawing showing the overall development concept of a
tract or parcel of land that is prepared for an initial application conference
before a plat is submitted.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Martindale.
   COUNTY CLERK. The County Clerk for the county in which the land to be
subdivided lies. If the land to be subdivided lies within more than one county,
recording shall be effected with each County Clerk for each county.
   COUNTY TAX APPRAISAL DISTRICT. Refers to the Appraisal District for the
county in which the land in question lies.
   DAY. Calendar day, unless otherwise specified.
   DEVELOPER. A person or corporation who provides for the development of a
tract or parcel of land into an area where building lots or sites are
delineated and provided with street access, utilities and drainage facilities.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or
persons for the use of a strip or tract of land for specific purposes.
   ENGINEER. A person duly authorized under the provisions of Tex. Occupation
Code, Ch. 1071 as heretofore or hereafter amended, to practice the profession
of engineering.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION (ETJ). The unincorporated area, not a part of
any other city, which is contiguous to the corporate limits of the city, and is
further determined under Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, Ch. 42.
   FILE. To place among the official records as prescribed by this chapter.
   LAND USE PLANNER. A person having an occupation classified as city or land
planning, capable of designing the proposed subdivision, or use of real estate,
and capable of professionally drawing the proposals into map or plan form.
   LOT. A designated parcel of land established by a recorded subdivision plat
or development plat and which may be separately owned and used, developed or
built upon.
   PLAT. A complete and exact subdivision plan submitted to the city for
consideration and which will be submitted to the County Clerk for recording,
subsequent to the fulfillment of all provisions of this chapter. PLAT includes
REPLAT, in accordance with Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, § 212.001.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. An initial form of a subdivision plat required whenever
public infrastructure must be constructed within the subdivision by the
applicant, and is the basis for the engineering plans.
   RECORD. To file an official copy of a document in the office of the County
Clerk.
   RECORDABLE PLAT. A final plat, replat, resubdivision plat, minor plat or
amending plat, all of which are in a form containing certificates of
authorization, dedication and approval in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter for final plats, and which is intended to be filed for record in
the office of the County Clerk.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY (R.O.W.). A strip of land used or intended to be used, wholly
or in part, as a public street, alley, crosswalk way, sidewalk or drainageway.
   STANDARDS. The official maps, master plans, ordinances and specifications of
the city.
   STREETS. The portion of the dedicated right of-way to be used for vehicle
traffic and may be designated as street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway,
throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place or however otherwise
designated.
      (1)   MAJOR ROAD/ARTERIAL STREETS. Those which are used primarily for
fast or heavy traffic and which may be designated in the comprehensive master
plan as such.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Those which carry traffic from minor streets to
major systems of arterial streets, including, the principal entrance streets of
a residential development and streets for circulation within such a development
and which may be designated in the comprehensive master plan as such.
      (3)   MINOR STREETS. Those which are used primarily for access to
abutting properties.
      (4)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS. Minor streets which are parallel to and
adjacent to arterial streets and which provide access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic.
      (5)   CUL-DE-SAC. A short minor street having but one vehicular access to
another street and terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
      (6)   DEAD-END STREET. A street, other than a cul-de-sac, with only one
outlet.
      (7)   STREET WIDTH. Measured from back of curb to back of curb; where no
curb exists, it is measured from edge of pavement to edge of pavement.
   STRUCTURE. Any human-made construction composed of parts joined together,
either built or moved onto a site for use, occupancy or ornamentation, and
located below or on the ground or attached to something having a location on
the ground.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person or any agent thereof dividing or proposing to divide
land so as to constitute a subdivision; in any event, the term SUBDIVIDER shall
be restricted to include only the owner, equitable owner or authorized agent of
the owner or equitable owner, of land sought to be subdivided.
   SUBDIVISION. Includes the following when done for the present or future
purpose of sale or building development of a tract of land located within the
corporate limits or in the ETJ of the city:
      (1)   The division of any tract of land into two or more parts for the
purpose of creating one or more new lots for development, or to modify an
existing boundary of ownership whether or not for the purpose of development.
This includes a division regardless of whether it is made by using a metes and
bounds description in a deed of conveyance or in a contract for a deed, by
using a contract of sale or other executory contract to convey, or by using any
other method;
      (2)   A resubdivision of all or part of a recorded subdivision, including
the expansion of a platted lot to include adjacent unplatted land, or the
creation of a new lot encompassing portions of two or more adjacent platted
subdivisions;
      (3)   Any change in the size or shape of a previously unplatted tract
through acquisition of adjacent unplatted land for the purpose of development;
      (4)   Any change in the size, shape or number of lots in a recorded
subdivision; and
      (5)   The relocation of any street or other feature dedicated by a
recorded plat, where the relocation alters the boundary of adjacent lots
included in the same original plat, and where the lots have not been sold by
the owner since the plat was recorded. This does not include simple abandonment
or sale by the city of the land included in the dedicated street or other
feature.
   SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan prepared in accordance with §
154.023 to show the overall future development of a tract of land when it is
proposed to be subdivided and developed in phases and only a portion of the
tract is to be platted initially.
   SUBDIVISION PLAT. A map of a subdivision submitted in accordance with Tex.
Loc. Gov't Code, § 212.004, Subchapter A, showing the exact location and
boundaries of individual parcels of land subdivided into lots, and showing
blocks, streets, alleys, easements and areas for public use, as applicable. For
the purpose of this chapter, the term PLAT is used in reference to any
recordable plat. No subdivision plat is effective until approved by the city
and filed for record in the office of the County Clerk.
   SURVEYOR. A registered professional land surveyor authorized by Tex.
Occupations Code, Ch. 1001 to practice surveying within the state.
   UTILITIES. Include all those various facilities and elements of construction
which relate to water, sanitary sewer, electrical, telephone, cable television
and gas distribution, collection or transmission lines.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.008 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Concurrently with or separately from consideration of a preliminary
plat or recordable plat, the Commission may authorize a variance from this
chapter when, in its opinion, undue hardship will result from requiring strict
compliance. In considering a variance, the Commission shall allow only
conditions that it deems necessary or desirable to the public interest. The
Commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land
involved and existing uses of the land in the vicinity, the number of persons
who will reside or work in the proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of
the variance upon traffic conditions, public health, safety, convenience and
welfare in the vicinity. No variance shall be approved unless the following is
established:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the land
involved so that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   The variances are necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the applicant and that the granting of the
variance will not be detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare, and
will not be injurious to other property in the area; and
      (3)   The variance shall not have the effect of preventing the orderly
subdivision of other lands in the area in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Findings of the Commission, together with the specific facts on which
the findings are based, shall be incorporated under the official minutes of the
Commission meeting at which a variance is granted. Variances shall be granted
only when in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this chapter, so
that the public health, safety and welfare may be secured, and substantial
justice done. The Commission shall not authorize a variance to this chapter
that would constitute a violation of any other valid ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.009 APPEALS.
   (A)   The Commission may consider appeals where the applicant alleges that
there is an error in an order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the city staff in the enforcement of this chapter. The Commission may reverse
or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the city staff's order, requirement,
decision or determination.
   (B)   Any person or persons aggrieved by any decision of the Commission with
respect to subdivision plats, subdivision variances and appeals of
administrative determinations may appeal to the City Council by submitting to
the City Planner as appropriate within ten days after the date of the
Commission's action, a written request specifying the grounds for the appeal,
together with any supporting evidence. The appeal shall be forwarded to the
Council together with a copy of the approved minutes of the Commission meeting
at which the decision in question was made, and shall be considered at the
earliest regular meeting for which all required materials are available. The
Council shall uphold, modify or reverse the decision of the Commission.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.010 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any subdivision of land in violation of the terms and provisions of
these regulations is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and the city
shall institute any action that may be necessary to restrain or abate those
violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, within the
corporate limits of the city, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Prosecution or
conviction under this provision shall never be a bar to any other remedy or
relief for violations of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, outside the
corporate limits of the city, but within the city's extraterritorial
jurisdiction, shall not be considered as committing a misdemeanor, nor shall
any fine be applicable; however, the city shall have the right to institute an
action in the District Court to enjoin the violation of any provision of this
chapter.
   (D)   On behalf of the city, the City Attorney shall institute appropriate
action to enforce the provisions of this chapter, or the standards referred to
herein, with respect to any violation thereof which occurs within any area
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   The City Attorney, or any other attorney representing the city, may at
the city's request file an action in a court of competent jurisdiction to
enjoin the violation or threatened violation by an owner of a tract of land of
a requirement regarding the tract established by this chapter or to recover
damages from the owner of a tract of land in an amount adequate for the city to
undertake any construction or other activity necessary to bring about
compliance with this chapter. An "owner of a tract of land" does not include
the owner of an individual lot in a subdivided tract of land.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
PROCEDURE
§ 154.020 PLAT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The owner of a tract of land located within the city limits or
extraterritorial jurisdiction who wishes to create a subdivision, shall prepare
and submit an application and plat to the city for approval according to the
procedures and requirements of this chapter. No owner or agent of the owner of
any land located within a subdivision shall sell or convey any land by
reference to, exhibition of or by the use of a plan or plat of a subdivision,
nor shall a building permit be issued for or utility service be provided to any
development on a tract of land requiring a recordable plat, before the plat is
approved and recorded with the County Clerk. The conveyance of real property
included within the subdivision shall be by lot and block.
   (B)   A subdivision plat is not required for the division or assembly of
tracts of land into parts greater than five acres within the city limits, or
greater than ten acres in the extraterritorial jurisdiction, where each part
has access and no public improvement is being dedicated. For the purposes of
this section, the term ACCESS means that each part of the land after division
or assembly will have frontage on an existing paved public road or street, and
the phrase NO PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT IS BEING DEDICATED means that no construction
or dedication of any public improvement, such as a street, utility, easement,
sidewalk, drainageway or any other public facility, is required by this chapter
or applicable county regulations in connection with the division or assembly.
   (C)   A formal subdivision plat is not required for family land partitions
in the extraterritorial jurisdiction in which the owner of a tract of land
divides the tract so that a portion of the tract can be sold, given, or
otherwise transferred to a person or persons that are related to the owner
within the third degree by consanguinity or affinity, as determined under Tex.
Loc. Gov't Code, Chapter 573. This exemption requires compliance with all of
the following:
      (1)   The owner of the land must submit a completed application to the
city for approval of a family land partition. The application must include a
signed affidavit identifying one or more persons related to the owner within
the third degree by consanguinity or affinity, as determined under Tex. Loc.
Gov't Code, Chapter 573, to whom one or more of the proposed tracts will be
conveyed. The application must be accompanied by a survey plat showing the
parent tract of land and all tracts proposed to be created by the partition.
      (2)   The proposed partition must result in the creation of four or fewer
tracts of land, including the remainder of the parent tract after the
partition.
      (3)   All tracts of land resulting from the partition must be at least
one-half acre in size, and must otherwise comply with the requirements for lots
in §
154.044.
      (4)   After the proposed partition, each tract must have frontage on an
existing public road or street.
      (5)   If the application indicates compliance with all provisions of this
division, the City Planner will approve it. If an application does not comply
with any provision of this division, the City Planner will deny it. and the
applicant can proceed with the land division only by complying with the
requirements in this chapter for a subdivision plat.
      (6)   For a period of ten years from the date of approval of a family
land partition application, it is unlawful for a person to execute a deed or
contract to convey a tract of land resulting from a family land partition
unless the deed or contract includes a restrictive covenant stating as follows:
         For a period of ten years from [date of city approval of application],
no subdivision of this property can occur without approval of a subdivision
plat by the City of Martindale, and no transfer or sale of this property can
occur to a person who is not related to [name of original owner] within the
third degree by consanguinity or affinity, as determined under Tex. Loc. Gov't
Code, Chapter 573.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2015-12-15, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 154.021 INITIAL APPLICATION.
   The applicant shall arrange with the City Planner, as appropriate, for an
informal conference with city officials for advice and assistance prior to
preparing and submitting the preliminary plat, or recordable plat if no
preliminary plat is required. Seven copies of a concept plan, prepared in
accordance with §
154.090 below, will be delivered to the City Planner not less than five days
prior to the conference.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.022 DETERMINATION OF COMPLETENESS.
   (A)   Every application shall be subject to a determination of completeness
by the city.
   (B)   No application shall be deemed complete and accepted for processing
unless it is accompanied by all documents required by and prepared in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter. For a determination of
completeness to be issued, an application must include the following:
      (1)   An application signed by the property owner;
      (2)   Payment of the appropriate fee;
      (3)   An accurate metes and bounds description of the subject property
(or other suitable legal description);
      (4)   A survey or other appropriate exhibits as identified in this
chapter for the individual permit; and
      (5)   Any additional documents, forms or other materials required by the
city or identified in this chapter for the processing of a specific development
permit.
   (C)   The city may from time to time identify additional requirements for a
complete application that are not contained within but are consistent with the
application contents and standards set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   A determination of completeness shall not constitute a determination
of compliance with the substantive requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   An application shall not be considered filed within the meaning of
Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, Ch. 245, until a determination of completeness has been
made in accordance with this section. This shall include a determination that
all information and documents required by this chapter for the type of permit
being submitted or other requirements have been submitted. Whenever this
chapter establishes a time period for processing of an application by the city,
the time period shall not commence until the application has been reviewed for
completeness in order to determine whether the application has been properly
submitted and the applicant has corrected all deficiencies in the application.
Review for completeness of application forms is solely for the purpose of
determining whether preliminary information required for submission with the
application is sufficient to allow further processing and shall not constitute
a decision as to whether the application complies with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (F)   In order for the city to refuse to accept the filing of an application
based upon a lack of completeness, the city shall provide written notice of the
failure to complete the application to the applicant within ten days, which
notice shall specify the necessary documents and information required, and the
date the application will expire if the information is not provided. If the
notice is given to the applicant within ten days, the city may provide that a
permit application expires on or after the forty-fifth day after the date it is
filed, by written notice.
   (G)   The processing of an application by any city employee prior to the
time the application is determined to be complete shall not be binding on the
city as the official acceptance of the application for filing. The
incompleteness of an application shall be grounds for denial of the application
regardless of whether a determination of incompleteness was mailed to the
applicant.
   (H)   A development permit application shall be deemed to expire on the
forty-fifth day after the application is submitted to the city for processing
if the applicant fails to provide documents or other information necessary to
meet the requirements of this chapter or other requirements as specified in the
determination provided to the applicant. Upon expiration, the application shall
be returned to the applicant together with any accompanying documents.
Thereafter, a new application must be submitted.
   (I)   No vested rights accrue solely from the filing of an application that
has expired pursuant to this section, or from the filing of a complete
application that is subsequently denied.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.023 SUBDIVISION MASTER PLAN.
   When only a portion of a tract is to be platted initially, with one or more
additional phases of the same subdivision to be platted sequentially at a later
date, and where a preliminary plat is not submitted for the entire original
tract, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   A subdivision development plan for the entire tract and a preliminary
plat, if required, for that phase to be immediately developed shall be
submitted together for review and approval in accordance with the procedures in
§
154.022 above for preliminary plats. The subdivision development plan is a
scale drawing including a vicinity map and legal description of the property,
and showing proposed street rights-of-way, easements, building sites or lots,
areas for parks or other public facilities, school sites, utilities, drainage
features, contour intervals of not less than five feet, and proposed phase
boundaries for the subdivision to be developed in sections.
   (B)   Upon approval, or approval with modifications, of the subdivision
development plan and preliminary plat by the Commission, a final plat for that
portion to be immediately developed shall be submitted in accordance with this
chapter. Additional phases conforming with the approved subdivision development
plan may then be platted sequentially in accordance with the requirements for
preliminary and final plats. No changes to the subdivision development plan
shall be made without approval of the Commission.
   (C)   The first phase subdivided shall be labeled "Section One" following
the name of the subdivision, with subsequent phases numbered sequentially
thereafter.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.024 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   A preliminary plat is required to determine the general layout of the
subdivision, the adequacy of public facilities needed to serve the intended
development and the overall compliance of the land division with applicable
requirements of this chapter. A preliminary plat may be submitted for any phase
of development consistent with an approved Subdivision Master Plan. Where a
Subdivision Master Plan is not required and the area to be platted is part of a
larger tract of land, the preliminary plat must encompass the entire tract of
land under ownership of the subdivider and shall provide a preliminary layout
of streets, lots, blocks, utilities and drainage for the larger tract.
   (B)   Following the initial application conference and staff review of the
concept plan, the applicant shall prepare a preliminary plat, if required, and
requested variances, if any, in accordance with §
154.091 below, which, together with other supplementary materials specified
herein, shall then be submitted in seven prints to the City Planner for staff
review, along with the application form and fee as provided herein, at least
three weeks prior to the Commission meeting at which it is to be considered.
Upon receipt of staff comments, the applicant shall make any requested
corrections or other changes and submit 12 prints of the revised preliminary
plat to the City Planner, who will then refer it to the Commission within three
weeks of the submission of revisions All plat prints shall be pre-folded to a
size no larger than nine inches by 12 inches at the time of submittal.
   (C)   The City Engineer, City Planner or Commission may require the
applicant to submit additional topographic information, detailed plans for
proposed uses or other information to determine possible flood or erosion
hazards, the effect of the subdivision uses upon flows and the adequacy of
proposed flood protection measures. The request will be in writing and shall
specify the type of additional data required and its format.
   (D)   The preliminary plat shall be reviewed as follows:
      (1)   City Engineer, Public Works and Water/Wastewater Departments, as
appropriate:
         (a)   Drainage system;
         (b)   Street layout, paving grades, type of paving;
         (c)   Boundary lines;
         (d)   Monuments and benchmarks;
         (e)   Location and size of alleys;
         (f)   Availability of adequate water, sanitary sewer and electric
service to the subdivision, including required water flow for fire suppression;
         (g)   Water utility system and fire hydrant locations;
         (h)   Sanitary sewer utility system;
         (i)   Electrical distribution system and street lighting; and
         (j)   Utility easements.
      (2)   The City Planner:
         (a)   General plat format and content;
         (b)   Lot and block numbers;
         (c)   Street layout;
         (d)   Street names;
         (e)   Lot dimensions and building lines; and
         (f)   Subdivision name.
      (3)   Police Department:
         (a)   Traffic safety devices;
         (b)   Street names and design; and
         (c)   Public access.
      (4)   Fire Department/EMS:
         (a)   Water utilities system and fire hydrant locations;
         (b)   Street names; and
         (c)   Fire protection access.
   (E)   The City Planner shall forward the preliminary plat and accompanying
data to the Commission with staff recommendations as to any further
modifications.
   (F)   The Commission shall:
      (1)   Approve or disapprove the preliminary plat and/or variances;
      (2)   Approve the preliminary plat and/or variances with modifications;
      (3)   Act on the plat within 30 days after it is filed with the City
Planner, pursuant to Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, § 212.009.
   (G)   Within ten days of the Commission's decision, the city shall issue to
the applicant a certificate stating the date that the preliminary plat was
approved, approved with modifications or denied, and state the reasons for
denial, if applicable.
   (H)   If the Commission disapproves, or approves with modification, the
preliminary plat and/or variances, the applicant may elect one of the
following:
      (1)   In the case of disapproval, make any changes necessary to address
the Commission's reason for denial, resubmit the plat to the City Planner, as
appropriate, with revisions for review and reconsideration by the Commission in
accordance with the same procedural requirements as for the original
submission. If a revised preliminary plat is not resubmitted within 90 days of
the Commission's denial, it shall be considered withdrawn.
      (2)   In the case of approval with modification, make the changes
requested by the Commission and provide the City Planner with two revised
copies of the preliminary plat. If the revised copies are not resubmitted
within 90 days of the Commission's approval, the preliminary plat shall be
considered withdrawn.
      (3)   In either case of disapproval or approval with modification, not
change or resubmit the plat, and appeal as provided in this chapter.
   (I)   After approval of the preliminary plat and/or variances by the
Commission, and submittal of revised copies, if applicable, the applicant may
proceed with the final plat and engineering plans.
   (J)   Approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for no more than
12 months before the final plat and engineering plans are submitted for
approval. If no circumstances have occurred which would affect the preliminary
plat during that period, the Commission may consider, upon written request by
the applicant, extending the approval for a maximum of two additional six-month
time periods. At the end of this extension period, the approval is
automatically revoked. The city reserves the right to review the condition of
the project area to make a determination whether or not each six-month
extension is justified or if modification should be made thereto. A preliminary
plat that has expired can be reactivated only by resubmittal in accordance with
all normal procedures for the original submission.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.025 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Generally. A final plat is required to assure that the division or
development of the land subject to the plat is consistent with all standards of
this chapter pertaining to the adequacy of public facilities, that public
improvements to serve the subdivision or development have been installed and
accepted by the city or that provision for the installation has been made, that
all other requirements and conditions have been satisfied or provided for to
allow the plat to be recorded, and to assure that the subdivision or
development meets all other standards of this chapter to enable initiation of
site preparation activities for any lot or tract subject to the plat. Approval
of a final plat shall be required prior to any non-exempt division of land and
prior to any site preparation activities, for a lot or tract of land that
requires installation of public improvements on or adjacent thereto. A final
plat may be submitted for any phase of development consistent with an approved
preliminary plat.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   A final plat, which is a recordable plat, and engineering plans, if
required, shall be prepared in accordance with the approved preliminary plat,
if any, and with §§
154.092 and
154.093 below. Seven prints of the plat and two copies of the engineering
plans, if applicable, along with a written application, shall be submitted to
the City Planner for staff review. Upon receipt of staff comments, the
applicant shall make any requested corrections or other changes and submit 12
prints of the revised plat (two prints of revised minor plats) and engineering
plans to the City Planner. The plat shall be considered filed with the city on
the date that the revisions are submitted, along with the application fee as
provided herein. The revised plat will be accepted only if the engineering
plans, if any, have been approved by the City Engineer. All plat prints shall
be pre-folded to a size no larger than nine inches by 12 inches at the time of
submittal.
      (2)   Within 30 days after the final plat is filed with the City Planner,
the Commission shall approve or disapprove the plat. Within ten days of the
Commission's decision, the city shall issue to the applicant a certificate
stating the date that the final plat was approved or denied, and state the
reasons for denial, if applicable. If the plat complies with all standards and
requirements of this chapter, it shall be approved. A final plat that is denied
may be resubmitted as a continuance of the same application if the necessary
changes are made to address the reasons for the Commission's denial. If a
revised final plat is not resubmitted within 90 days of the Commission's
denial, it shall be considered withdrawn.
      (3)   After approval of the final plat, the applicant shall submit one
set of digital drawing files of the plat on compact disc in the ASCII version
of a DXF file, projected within the parameters of the State Plane Coordinate
System, in survey feet, and shall also submit two photographic Mylar
reproducible sets of the plat containing the notarized signature of the owner
(s), and the signatures and seals of the surveyor and engineer, as applicable.
The Chairperson of the Commission, or designee, will sign the approval
certificate on the Mylar reproducible sets. In the case of amending plats and
minor plats not requiring a variance, the Mayor will sign the approval
certificate. The City Planner shall cause the final plat to be recorded with
the County Clerk within five days after acceptance by the city of all
improvements, as provided in §
154.107 below. After recording, one Mylar reproducible set shall be retained by
the City Planner.
      (4)   Changes made to a final plat subsequent to being recorded and not
eligible for an amending plat as set forth in §
154.028 below, shall be submitted as a replat in accordance with §
154.027 below. Other connections or changes made to a final plat subsequent to
being recorded, shall be submitted as an amending plat in accordance with §
154.028 below. Upon approval of the replat or amending plat, it shall be
recorded with the County Clerk, who shall mark the previously recorded plat as
"void".
      (5)   Construction by the applicant of any required public improvements
shall commence within 12 months of the Commission's approval of a final plat.
Upon written request by the applicant, the City Planner may extend approval for
one additional six-month period. At the end of this extension period, the
approval is automatically revoked. A final plat that has expired can be
reactivated only by resubmittal in accordance with all normal procedures for
the original submission, including payment of applicable fees.
      (6)   Approval of the final plat as referred to herein shall amount to
authorization for the developer to proceed with construction of public
improvements in accordance with the final plat and engineering plans, as
approved, but the final plat shall not be recorded until final acceptance in
accordance with §
154.107 below. The issuance of a certificate pursuant to §
154.110 below shall not constitute authorization for recording of the final
plat, but shall only be utilized by the developer or subdivider in connection
with the construction of public improvements, obtaining financing and public
utility connections and other legitimate purposes relating to preparation of
the subdivision for final inspection and acceptance.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.026 MINOR PLAT.
   A minor plat is a recordable plat involving four or fewer new lots fronting
on an existing street and not requiring the creation of any new street or the
extension of municipal facilities. A minor plat does not require prior approval
of a preliminary plat, and is prepared and processed in accordance with the
requirements for final plats as specified in §
154.025 above, except that it may be approved administratively by the City
Planner. The City Planner may, for any reason, elect to present the plat to the
Commission or, if the City Planner refuses to approve the plat, it shall be
referred to the Commission for approval or denial, in accordance with the
procedures for final plats, within three weeks of the City Planner's denial. If
a variance is requested by the applicant, the minor plat must be referred to
the Commission for approval or denial of both the variance and the plat.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.027 VACATING PLAT.
   (A)   The proprietors of the tract covered by a plat may vacate the plat any
time before any lot in the plat is sold. The plat is vacated when a signed,
acknowledged instrument declaring the plat vacated is approved and recorded in
the manner prescribed for the original plat.
   (B)   If lots in the plat have been sold, the plat, or any part of the plat,
may be vacated on the application of all owners of lots in the plat with
approval obtained in the manner prescribed for the original plat.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall write legibly on the vacated plat the word
"vacated" and shall enter on the plat a reference to the volume and page at
which the vacating instrument is recorded.
   (D)   On the execution and recording of the vacating instrument, the vacated
plat has no effect.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.028 REPLATTING WITHOUT VACATING PRECEDING PLAT.
   (A)   A replat is a recordable plat that does not require prior approval of
a preliminary plat, and is prepared and processed in accordance with the
requirements for final plats as specified in §
154.024 above, subject to additional public hearing requirements, if
applicable, as set forth in this section. A replat of a subdivision or part of
a subdivision may be recorded and is controlling over the preceding plat
without vacation of that plat if the replat:
      (1)   Is signed and acknowledged by only the owners of the property being
replatted;
      (2)   Is approved by the Commission, after public hearings, at which
parties in interest and citizens have an opportunity to be heard; and
      (3)   Does not attempt to amend or remove any covenants or restrictions.
   (B)   If during the preceding five years, any of the area to be replatted
without vacation of the preceding plat was limited by zoning classification or
deed restrictions to residential use for not more than two units per lot, then
notice of the public hearing required in division (A) above shall be given
before the fifteenth day before the date of the hearing by:
      (1)   Publication in the city's official newspaper/publication of record;
and
      (2)   Written notice by mail, with a copy of division (C) below, to the
owners of lots that are in the original subdivision and that are within 200
feet of the lots to be replatted, as indicated on the most recently approved
city tax roll or, in the case of a subdivision within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction, the most recently approved county tax roll of the property upon
which the replat is requested.
   (C)   If the proposed plat requires a variance and is protested in
accordance with this division (C), the proposed plat must receive, in order to
be approved, the affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the members of
the Commission present.
      (1)   For a legal protest, written instruments signed by the owners of at
least 20% of the area of the lots or land immediately adjoining the area
covered by the proposed replat and extending 200 feet from that area, but
within the original subdivision, must be filed with the Commission prior to the
close of the public hearing. In computing the percentage of land under this
division (C)(1), the area of streets and alleys shall be included.
      (2)   Compliance with the division is not required if the area to be
replatted was designated or reserved for other than single-family or duplex-
family residential by notation on the last legally recorded plat or in the
legally recorded restrictions applicable to the plat.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.029 AMENDING PLAT.
   (A)   An amending plat is a recordable plat prepared and processed in
accordance with the requirements for final plats as specified in §
154.024 above, except that it may be approved administratively by the City
Planner. It is controlling over the preceding plat without vacation of that
plat, if the amending plat is signed by the applicants only and is solely for
one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   To correct an error in a course or distance shown on the preceding
plat;
      (2)   To add a course or distance that was omitted on the preceding plat;
      (3)   To correct an error in a real property description shown on the
preceding plat;
      (4)   To indicate monuments set after the death, disability or retirement
from practice of the surveyor responsible for setting monuments;
      (5)   To show the location or character of a monument that has been
changed in location or that is shown incorrectly as to location or character on
the preceding plat;
      (6)   To correct any other type of scrivener or clerical error or
omission previously approved by the city, including lot numbers, acreage,
street names and identification of adjacent recorded plats;
      (7)   To correct an error in courses and distances of lot lines between
two adjacent lots if:
         (a)   Both lot owners join in the application for amending the plat;
         (b)   Neither lot is abolished;
         (c)   The amendment does not attempt to remove recorded covenants or
restrictions; and
         (d)   The amendment does not have a material adverse effect on the
property rights of the other owners in the plat.
      (8)   To relocate a lot line to eliminate an inadvertent encroachment of
a building or other improvement on a lot line or easement;
      (9)   To relocate one or more lot lines between one or more adjacent lots
if:
         (a)   The owners of all those lots join in the application for
amending the plat;
         (b)   The amendment does not attempt to remove recorded covenants or
restrictions; and
         (c)   The amendment does not increase the number of lots.
      (10)   To make necessary changes to the preceding plat to create six or
fewer lots in the subdivision or a part of the subdivision covered by the
preceding plat if:
         (a)   The changes do not affect applicable zoning and other
regulations of the city;
         (b)   The changes do not attempt to amend or remove any covenants or
restrictions; and
         (c)   The area covered by the changes is located in an area that the
Commission and Council have approved, after a public hearing, as a residential
improvement area.
      (11)   To replat one or more lots fronting on an existing street if:
         (a)   The owners of all those lots join in the application for
amending the plat;
         (b)   The amendment does not attempt to remove recorded covenants or
restrictions;
         (c)   The amendment does not increase the number of lots; and
         (d)   The amendment does not create or require the creation of a new
street or make necessary the extension of municipal facilities.
   (B)   Notice, a hearing and the approval of other lot owners are not
required by the approval and issuance of an amending plat
   (C)   Amending plats shall be presented to the City Planner for approval.
      (1)   If, for any reason, the City Planner does not wish to approve the
plat, it shall be presented to the Commission for approval or denial in
accordance with the procedures for final plats in §
154.024 above, within three weeks of the City Planner's denial.
      (2)   If a variance is requested by the applicant, the amending plat must
be referred to the Commission for approval or denial of both the variance and
the plat.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.030 TAX CERTIFICATION.
   At the time the applicant files any recordable plat with the City Planner,
he or she shall attach a certificate showing that all taxes have been paid on
the tract to be subdivided and that no delinquent taxes exist against the
property.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.040 STREETS.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width grade and location of all
streets shall conform to the comprehensive master plan and shall be considered
in their relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions,
to public safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the
land to be served by the streets.
   (B)   When a street is not on the comprehensive master plan, the arrangement
of streets in a subdivision shall provide for the continuation of existing
streets in surrounding areas. If there are no streets existing on adjacent
vacant and unsubdivided land, the arrangement of streets in the subdivision
shall make provision for the proper extension of streets into the area. The
length of any dead-end street projections intended for future extension beyond
the limits of the subdivision shall not exceed the depth of one lot unless a
cul-de-sac is constructed no further than one lot from the subdivision
perimeter.
   (C)   All subdivisions with a potential to serve more than 100 dwelling
units, or more than 25 nonresidential lots, shall have at least two points of
vehicular access consisting of improved streets connected to the city's
thoroughfare system; or, a single entrance street divided by a median where the
median extends to the nearest internal street which provides at least two
routes to the interior of the subdivision. Residential driveways shall not be
located on the sides of the divided street parallel to and within the length of
an entrance median.
   (D)   Where a subdivision adjoins or contains an existing or proposed major
road, arterial street or collector street, the Commission may require marginal
access streets, reverse frontage, deep lots with rear service alleys, or the
treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection to residential properties
and to afford separation of through and local traffic. No side lot access to
residential corner lots shall be allowed from any arterial street.
   (E)   Where the proposed subdivision abuts upon an existing street that does
not conform to the comprehensive master plan, the subdivider shall dedicate
one-half of the right-of-way sufficient to make the ultimate full right-of-way
width conform.
   (F)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets, rights-of-way or other
land dedicated or intended to be dedicated to public use shall be prohibited,
except where the city is given control, under conditions approved by the
Commission.
   (G)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
   (H)   Arterial street intersections shall be at 90-degree angles. Other
street intersections shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles, and no street shall intersect at less than 75 degrees, nor
more than 105 degrees.
   (I)   Street right-of-way and pavement widths shall be as shown on the
comprehensive master plan and, where not shown therein, shall be not less than
as follows.
      (1)   Arterial streets: minimum right-of-way width 80 feet to a maximum
of 140 feet, with the pavement width section to be based on standard details
for the specific street class, depending upon the location and existing streets
with which street is to be connected.
      (2)   Collector streets: right-of-way width 60 feet, and pavement width
of 41 feet back-to-back of curb. The right-of-way may be required to be wider
or supplemented with abutting easements where all utilities are to be located
in the front of lots.
      (3)   Local streets:
         (a)   Residential street: right-of-way width 50 feet, and pavement
width of 31 feet back to back of curb. The right-of-way shall be wider or
supplemented with abutting easements where all utilities are to be located in
the front of lots; and
         (b)   Local street in multi-family, commercial or industrial areas:
right-of-way width 60 feet, with pavement width section as identified in
standard details or greater if required for drainage. The right-of-way may be
required to be wider or supplemented with abutting easements where all
utilities are to be located in the front of lots.
   (J)   Half-width streets shall be prohibited.
   (K)   A cul-de-sac shall not be longer than 500 feet measured from the
connecting street centerline to center radius point of the closed end having a
paved street turnaround diameter of at least 80 feet with a right-of-way
diameter of at least 100 feet for residential, and at least 180-foot paved
street turnaround diameter with a 200-foot right-of-way diameter in commercial
and industrial areas. Center islands may be provided subject to approval by the
city.
   (L)   New streets of like alignment shall bear the names of existing streets
and shall be dedicated at equal or greater widths than the existing streets. No
street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with the name of
existing streets.
   (M)   Names of new streets being constructed as part of a subdivision are
subject to approval of the Commission. Once a street is accepted by the city
and the subdivision plat is recorded designating the name of the street, any
subsequent change in the name of the street is subject to approval by the
Council.
   (N)   All new streets dedicated within a subdivision shall be improved in
accordance with the construction standards of the city.
   (O)   If an existing public street or unimproved right-of-way not meeting
city standards for its classification designated in the comprehensive master
plan with respect to width, drainage or surface type abuts the perimeter of a
subdivision and provides the sole vehicular access to the subdivision or
section thereof being platted, it shall be improved at the subdivider's expense
to comply with the standards prior to acceptance of the subdivision by the
city. The length of the improvement shall extend to the nearest existing street
or portion thereof that meets city standards. Where the substandard perimeter
street is already paved with a durable all-weather surface and has an adequate
width for at least two lanes of traffic, the city may accept, as an alternative
to the subdivider improving the street, a payment equal to one-half the
estimated cost of improvement to city standards, as determined by the City
Engineer. The payment shall be made concurrently with acceptance of the
subdivision improvements by the city, and the city shall deposit the funds in
an account reserved for future improvement of the substandard perimeter street.
This option is available only when it is determined that the existing perimeter
street, in its current state, is capable of carrying the expected traffic upon
full development of the subdivision. The city may require a traffic impact
study to be prepared at the subdivider's expense to document the existing
capacity of the street.
   (P)   If a tract is subdivided into parcels larger than ordinary building
lots, the parcels shall be arranged to allow for the opening of future streets.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.041 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Right-of-way for service alleys in commercial and industrial districts
shall be a minimum of 25 feet in width, with a 20-foot wide pavement section.
   (B)   Alleys in residential districts shall be parallel, or approximately
parallel, to the frontage street, and shall have a minimum right-of-way width
of 15 feet, with a ten-foot wide pavement section.
   (C)   Alleys shall be optional in all new developments and replatted
existing subdivisions, unless expressly required by the Commission because of
drainage, topographical features, circulation, or existing conditions which may
necessitate the use of an alley in a particular location. Any right-of-way for
alleys shall be dedicated to the city.
   (D)   Alleys shall be paved in accordance with the construction standards of
the city.
   (E)   Where the deflection of alley alignment exceeds 30 degrees, a cutback
of a minimum 15 feet, or of a greater distance to provide safe vehicular
movement, shall be established on the inside property line and the paving of
the alley shall be cut back in the same manner.
   (F)   Where the deflection of an alley alignment exceeds 15 degrees, a five-
foot-wide pole guy easement shall be provided at the exterior of each point of
deflection and normal hereto. The easement length shall be 15 feet for a
deflection from 15 degrees to 30 degrees and 25 feet for deflection greater
than 30 degrees.
   (G)   Dead-end alleys are prohibited.
   (H)   Access to residential property may be permitted from the alley. Access
from the alley shall not exclude another means of access from the front or
side.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.042 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements across lots, along and abutting front lot lines or centered
on rear or side lot lines shall be provided for utilities and drainage where
necessary. Drainage easements must be exclusive and no improvements may be
constructed therein. When the easements are shown on a subdivision plat, this
exclusivity and restriction will be noted on the plat and included in any
restrictive covenants. Drainage and utility easements will not be superimposed.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage-way or
channel, a storm drain easement or drainage right-of-way, conforming
substantially with the course and of a width to fulfill the requirements of the
city's flood hazard area standards and drainage standards, as calculated by the
developer's engineer, will be provided. Non-restricted access shall be provided
to all drainageways and storm system easements for maintenance by the
responsible parties. Access shall be provided within 500 feet of all points
where drainage easements exist, and parallel streets or parkways may be
required for access to the easement.
   (C)   Where alleys are not provided in a residential subdivision and
utilities are to be provided in the rear of lots, a minimum seven and one-half-
foot-wide utility easement shall be provided where needed along the rear of all
lots within the subdivision. When one or more lots are located so that there is
no similar easement in adjoining tracts, a minimum 15-foot wide easement will
be provided.
   (D)   When the tract to be subdivided includes an easement of the blanket
form or is a portion of a tract which includes such an easement, the subdivider
shall take action as is necessary prior to submission of the preliminary plat
to have the easement removed or to have the easement redefined to a specific
location and to a specific size or width.
   (E)   Public access easements may be provided to accommodate a required
public sidewalk along and adjacent to the public street right-of-way where
conflicts with natural features, utility equipment or other appurtenances make
the location of the sidewalk within the right-of-way impractical. Private
access easements may be provided to accommodate joint vehicular access to
adjacent lots in the subdivision.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.043 BLOCKS.
   (A)   The length, width and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to:
      (1)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated;
      (2)   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions; and
      (3)   Needs for convenient access, circulation control and safety of
street traffic.
   (B)   In general, intersecting streets determining the block length and
width shall be provided at intervals so as to serve cross traffic adequately
and to meet existing streets or in accordance with customary subdivision
practices.
      (1)   Where no existing subdivision controls, the block lengths shall
generally not exceed 800 feet along local streets, 1,000 feet along collector
streets, or 1,200 feet along arterial streets. Where no existing subdivision
controls, the blocks shall generally not be less than 400 feet along local or
collector streets, or 500 feet along arterial streets.
      (2)   However, in cases where physical barriers or property ownership
creates conditions where it is appropriate that these standards be varied, the
length may be increased or decreased to meet the existing conditions having due
regard for connecting streets, circulation of traffic and public safety. Where
opposite sides of a block are along different classifications of streets, the
length shall generally conform to the maximum and minimum limits applicable to
the higher classification.
   (C)   Where blocks in the vicinity of a school, park or shopping center are
1,000 feet or longer, the Commission may require a six-foot public pedestrian
access easement near the middle of the block or at a street that terminates
between streets at the ends of the block.
   (D)   Where no existing subdivision controls, the block depth shall be
platted to give lots with depth to width ratios of generally not more than two
and one-half to one and in no case more than four to one, and the design shall
be such that the block depth generally shall not exceed 350 feet. When
possible, the block width and length shall be such to allow tiers of lots back
to back.
   (E)   Blocks shall be labeled sequentially, from "One" or from "A" in each
subdivision or section thereof.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.044 LOTS.
   (A)   Lots sizes and dimensions shall conform to the minimum requirements of
the applicable zoning district. Lot area shall be calculated including all
easements. Changes in the required lot sizes and dimensions may only be allowed
through rezoning or through the granting of a variance by the city. Lots in the
extraterritorial jurisdiction shall provide the minimum lot area necessary for
the treatment of wastewater.
   (B)   Each lot shall abut an improved public street right-of-way along at
least one property line.
   (C)   Key lots or irregular shaped lots shall have sufficient width at the
front building line to meet frontage requirements of the appropriate zoning
district. Also, the rear width shall be sufficient to provide access or all
utilities, but in no case less than ten feet.
   (D)   Flag lots, which have minimal or panhandle-type frontage, shall not be
allowed in lieu of providing access to lots on the interior of a subdivision
with one or more public streets except, however, that one flag, lot may be
approved in the subdivision of an extremely long and relatively narrow
previously unplatted tract into two lots provided that the street frontage of
the flag lot is at least 25 feet, and the width of the lot where any building
is constructed is at least the minimum required by the applicable zoning
district.
   (E)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines.
   (F)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots will be avoided, except
where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arteries or to overcome specific disadvantage of topography and orientation.
Where lots have double frontage, a front building line shall be established for
each street.
   (G)   Each lot in each block shall be labeled sequentially from one.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.045 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   In those instances when a six-foot pedestrian access easement is
provided is accordance with §
154.043(C) above, the applicant shall construct a sidewalk not less than four
feet wide therein.
   (B)   Sidewalks, not less than four feet wide, shall be provided on each
side of major road/arterial streets and collector streets, and on one side of
local streets, including cul-de-sacs exceeding 350 feet in length as measured
in accordance with §
154.040(K) above. Required sidewalks shall be constructed by the builder for
each lot before a certificate of occupancy will be issued for any structure
thereon. Sidewalks required along public streets abutting property that is
already developed, or abutting land areas dedicated for a public park in
accordance with §
154.060 below, shall be constructed by the subdivider as a subdivision
improvement prior to the plat being recorded.
   (C)   The location of sidewalks shall be noted on the subdivision plat.
   (D)   Sidewalks are not required:
      (1)   On culs-de-sac 350 feet or less in length;
      (2)   Along local streets in residential subdivisions where no lot is
less than one acre in size;
      (3)   When no more than three lots are being replatted where there was no
requirement for sidewalks at the time the subdivision was originally platted;
or
      (4)   Where the Commission authorizes a variance waiving all or a portion
of the sidewalk requirement in accordance with §
154.003 above.
   (E)   Curb ramps for the handicapped shall be constructed to comply with
applicable state and federal law.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.046 STREETLIGHTS.
   Streetlights shall be installed by the subdivider in accordance with the
current streetlight policy, as adopted by the Council, and shall conform to the
construction standards of the city.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.047 STREET SIGNS.
   (A)   Street name signs. Street name signs approved by the city shall be
furnished and installed by the subdivider, at the subdivider's expense, at each
intersection within or abutting the subdivision.
   (B)   Traffic control signs. Appropriate traffic control signs, required by
the Uniform Traffic Control Manual and approved by the state, shall be
furnished and installed by the subdivider, at the subdivider's expense.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.048 FLOOD HAZARD.
   The city may attach conditions including, but not limited to, the following
to the approval of plats for areas subject to development problems in flood
hazard areas:
   (A)   Construction and modification of sewer, water supply and drainage
facilities to meet the standards of this chapter and to promote health, safety
and general welfare;
   (B)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes, levees
and other protective measures; and
   (C)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed restrictions may
include flood-proofing of intended uses at the time the uses are constructed.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.049 COMPLIANCE WITH MINIMUM STATE STANDARDS FOR SAFE AND SANITARY WATER
SUPPLY AND SEWER SERVICES.
   (A)   The plat or a document attached to the plat must describe the water
and sewer service facilities that will be constructed or installed to service
the subdivision and contain a statement of the date by which the facilities
will be fully operable.
   (B)   The engineer's certificate attached to the plat shall certify that the
water and sewer service facilities described by the plat are in compliance with
the model rules adopted under Tex. Water Code, § 16.343.
   (C)   If the source of the water supply intended for the subdivision is
groundwater under the land being subdivided, the engineer's certificate
attached to the plat shall certify that adequate groundwater is available to
the subdivision in the form and with the content prescribed for the
certificates by the State Commission on Environmental Quality.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
COMMUNITY FACILITIES AND OPEN SPACES
§ 154.060 AREAS FOR PUBLIC USE.
   The subdivider shall give consideration to one or more suitable sites for
public parks, playgrounds and other public community facilities in accordance
with the comprehensive plan and associated plans and policies of the city. A
school site approved by the school district for purchase by the district shall
be considered an eligible community facility for the purpose of this
subchapter. Any provision for schools, parks and the like, shall be indicated
on the plat.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.061 LAND DEDICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
154.062 below, or for nonresidential subdivisions, land shall be dedicated by
the subdivider in the amounts listed below or greater for community facilities
or open space in any subdivision greater than five acres in size.
      (1)   Subdivision size over five acres up to and including 20 acres: 5%
of the total land area zoned or intended for residential use.
      (2)   Subdivision size over 20 acres: 8% of the total land area zoned or
intended for residential use.
   (B)   The location, size and functions of the land to be dedicated for
community facilities or public open space must be deemed by the city to be
suitable for the intended use. If the subdivider develops the site for the
approved public use at the subdivider's expense and with approval of the city,
the land area dedicated may be decreased to the extent that the value of the
improvements is equal to or more than the market value of the land area prior
to development, as determined by the County Tax Appraisal District, that is the
difference between the minimum amount required and the amount actually
dedicated.
   (C)   No property required to be dedicated for community facilities or
public open space shall be in the 100-year floodplain except, however, that
natural areas may include the 100-year floodplain if determined by the city to
be suitable for leisure activities such as hiking, bicycling, picnicking and
wildlife observance, and the area is deemed by the city as needed or acceptable
for the use in that location.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.062 FEE IN LIEU OF LAND DEDICATION.
   (A)   In instances where dedication of land for community facilities or
public open space is unacceptable, unsuitable, unneeded or infeasible within a
subdivision, the subdivider may, at the city's discretion, pay a fee in lieu of
land dedication specified in §
154.061 above in the amounts listed below based upon the market value prior to
development as determined by the County Tax Appraisal District.
      (1)   Subdivision size over five acres up to and including 20 acres: 5%
of market value of land area that is zoned or intended for residential use.
      (2)   Subdivision size over 20 acres: 8% of market value of land area
that is zoned or intended for residential use.
   (B)   For subdivisions greater than one acre in size up to five acres in
size, where no land dedication is required, a fee shall be the equal to 5% of
the market value of land area that is zoned or intended for residential use. No
fee or land dedication is required for subdivisions one acre or less in size.
   (C)   Fees paid to meet the community facility and public open space
requirements shall be deposited by the city in an account for use only in the
acquisition of land, purchase of equipment or construction of improvements for
public open space, including parks, playgrounds and natural areas.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
GENERAL ENGINEERING STANDARDS
§ 154.075 STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The sanitary sewers, storm sewers, drainage features, water utility
mains, street improvements and electrical facilities, with all appurtenances
pertaining to the above, shall be constructed and installed in each new
subdivision, at the expense of the developer in accordance with the
construction standards of the city.
   (B)   All construction work, such as street paving, storm sewers, curb and/
or gutter work, sanitary sewers, water mains and electrical construction
performed by the owner, developer or contractor, shall be subject to inspection
during construction by the proper authority of the city and shall be
constructed in accordance with the construction standards of the city.
   (C)   Floor level of the buildings shall be provided with a minimum of 12
inches above the top of the adjacent street curb, or street centerline, or
shall be provided with drainage swale adjustment, so that the structure does
not flood.
   (D)   The construction standards of the city referred to in this chapter
shall be those standards approved by the City Council or, in the absence of
those standards, those standards approved by the City Engineer as being in
conformance with good and proper engineering standards for the type of
construction in question.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.076 GUARANTEE OF PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   The developer's engineer shall be responsible for inspection of all
construction and for certification, in accordance with §
154.108 below.
   (B)   The developer shall require guarantee of materials and workmanship of
his construction contractors, with whom he contracts for furnishing materials
and installing the improvements, required under this chapter and shall himself
or herself be responsible for guaranteeing that all materials and workmanship
in connection with the improvements are free of defects for a period of one
year after acceptance of the improvements by the Commission.
   (C)   In addition to the performance required elsewhere in this chapter, the
subdivider shall provide the following to the City Planner, as appropriate:
      (1)   A check or checks payable to the County Clerk in the amount of the
recordation fee for filing the final plat;
      (2)   A tax certificate from the city, county and school district showing
that no taxes are currently due or delinquent against the property;
      (3)   The original and one reproducible copy, together with four blueline
copies, of the approved construction plans shall be delivered to the city to
the City Planner's designee, as appropriate;
      (4)   Two reproducible sets of as-built construction plans are required
if completion of construction improvements precedes recordation of the final
plat. In all cases two reproducible sets of as-built construction plans will be
required. The city may refuse to issue building permits within a subdivision
that has not provided as-built construction plans;
      (5)   The subdivider shall provide the city with sufficient evidence that
he holds fee simple title to the property being subdivided;
      (6)   The subdivider shall provide dedication of all streets, alleys,
parks, easements and other land intended for public use signed by the owner or
owners and by all other persons owning an interest in the property subdivided
and platted, which shall be acknowledged in the manner prescribed by the laws
of the state for the conveyance of real property and shall be submitted and
attached to or placed in the final plat in accordance with the provisions
hereof;
      (7)   No plat shall be filed for record without the written consent of
the subdivider authorizing the City Planner to file the plat. If the subdivider
fails to give the written consent within 30 days of the date of satisfaction of
the requirements of division (A) above, the Commission may at any time
thereafter cancel the approval;
      (8)   The Commission shall cause the plat to be filed with the County
Clerk upon compliance with this section. After filing of the plat, the
subdivider shall provide the city with a reproducible copy and ten blueline
copies; and
      (9)   Certificates by the officials stating that the construction
conforms to the specification and standards contained in or referred to in this
chapter must be presented to the City Planner prior to recordation of the final
plat.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.077 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF OFF-SITE/ON-SITE INSTALLATION COSTS.
   (A)   The city may, provided funds are available, participate in the
extension of off-site water lines and may pay for pipe in excess of the size
required of the developer. The city may, provided funds are available,
participate in the extension of off-site sewer lines and may pay for pipe in
excess of the size required of the developer. The city may, provided funds are
available, participate in the extension of off-site electric lines and may pay
for electric line in excess of the size required of the developer.
   (B)   The city may pay, providing funds are available, for street right-of-
way in excess of that required by the comprehensive master plan, except where
the extra widths are in commercial developments, or where they are not required
by the city. The city may participate, provided funds are available, in the
extra cost of large drainage structures on major road/arterial streets shown on
the comprehensive master plan.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.078 COMPLIANCE AS PREREQUISITE TO VARIOUS UTILITY SERVICE PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued by the city for the installation of septic
tanks upon any lot in a subdivision unless the septic tank system meets
requirements of the county private sewage facilities regulation and of the
subdivision regulations of the county.
   (B)   No building, repair, plumbing or electrical permit shall be issued by
the city for any structure on a lot in a subdivision for which a final plat has
not been recorded.
   (C)   The city shall not repair, maintain, install or provide any streets or
public utility services in any subdivision for which a final plat has not been
recorded.
   (D)   The city shall not sell or supply any electricity, water, sewerage or
garbage service within a subdivision for which a final plat has not been
recorded.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
PLATS AND ENGINEERING PLANS
§ 154.090 CONCEPT PLAN.
   (A)   The initial plan will show the following information:
      (1)   Location within the city and with respect to adjoining property;
      (2)   Approximate acreage;
      (3)   Approximate location of streets;
      (4)   Approximate location of lot lines;
      (5)   Intended use, i.e., residential, multi-family, commercial and the
like; and
      (6)   Approximate location of any flood hazard boundary area.
   (B)   The initial plan may be to any scale and need not be finely drafted.
Use of a copy of the city tax map or city zoning map is suggested.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.091 PRELIMINARY PLAT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Application information. An application for a preliminary plat shall
include the following information and documents:
      (1)   Location/vicinity map with north arrow;
      (2)   Title block located in lower right corner including subdivision
name, acreage, complete legal description including survey name and abstract
number, city, county and preparation date;
      (3)   Legend, if abbreviations or symbols are used;
      (4)   Name, address and phone number of owner, developer, applicant and
surveyor;
      (5)   North arrow;
      (6)   Graphic and written scale (minimum one inch equals 100 feet);
      (7)   Surveyed property boundaries with bearings and distances;
      (8)   Legal metes and bounds description with calls matching boundary
bearings and distances;
      (9)   Lot dimensions including bearing and distances;
      (10)   Provide lot and block numbers for every lot (numbers only);
      (11)   List the total number of buildable lots;
      (12)   Front building setback lines along roadways (provide typical
detail of setbacks, including corner lots);
      (13)   Provide existing zoning;
      (14)   Location of significant natural features, including floodplains,
water courses and wooded areas;
      (15)   Location of significant human-made features, including railroads,
buildings, utilities or physical features;
      (16)   For residential subdivisions, a minimum of two points of public
access to existing public streets;
      (17)   Areas to be dedicated or reserved for right-of-way including
dimensions, area and providing bearings and distances of centerline;
      (18)   Provide recording information for any existing easements (water,
sanitary sewer, storm drainage, electric, telephone, gas, cable television,
fire lanes and the like) and rights-of-way. Provide all bearing and distance
information on proposed easements including easements filed by separate
instrument;
      (19)   Location of existing and proposed FEMA 100-year floodplain limits
with elevations;
      (20)   Existing and proposed topography at five-foot contour intervals
including drainage channels and creeks;
      (21)   Identify all boundary survey monumentation on the plat. The
proposed tract to the parent tract monumentation with bearings and distances;
      (22)   Boundary lines and acreage of the land to be dedicated to the city
for public parkland;
      (23)   Boundary lines and acreage of land proposed for private park
including note indicating ownership and maintenance responsibility;
      (24)   Land use, zoning, subdivision name, owner name and address, and
recording information for all adjacent properties;
      (25)   For residential subdivisions, a one foot non-access easement where
the rear, front or side of the property abuts a major or minor arterial;
      (26)   Location of city limits boundary and/or county boundary if they
traverse the subdivision, form part of the boundary of the subdivision or are
contiguous to the boundary;
      (27)   For preliminary plats exempt from requirements for Subdivision
Master Plan, designation of each phase of development and the proposed order of
development;
      (28)   Provide the location of proposed water, wastewater and storm
drainage facilities to serve the development including sizes;
      (29)   Show proposed street names;
      (30)   Any additional information as requested to clarify the proposed
development;
      (31)   Provide the following notes:
         (a)   The thoroughfare alignments shown on this document are for
illustration purposes and do not set the alignment. Alignment is determined at
time of final plat;
         (b)   Notice: selling a portion of this addition by metes and bounds
is a violation of city ordinances and state law and is subject to fines and
withholding of utilities and permits;
         (c)   According to flood insurance rate map, panel _______, dated
_______________, a 100-year floodplain (does or does not) exists on this site;
         (d)   If floodplain exists on the property, provide a note stating
that the finished floor elevation (FFE) of any structures shall be two feet
above the 100-year flood elevation;
         (e)   All private open space, common areas, greenbelts, drainage
easement and the like are the responsibility of the developer or its successors
and/or assigns;
         (f)   Bluebonnet electric utility note (where applicable);
         (g)   Any applicable notes required by TxDOT;
         (h)   State any and all waivers requested for the plat; and
         (i)   State any and all approved or requested waivers.
      (32)   Provide the following acknowledgments and certificates:
         (a)   Owner's acknowledgment.
State of Texas
County of _____________
I (we) the undersigned, owner(s) of the land shown on this plat, and designated
herein as the_____________________ subdivision to the City of ____________,
Texas and whose name is subscribed hereto, hereby dedicate for the use of the
public forever all streets, alleys, parks, water courses, drains, easements and
public places thereon shown for the purpose and consideration therein
expressed.
State of Texas
County of ______________
Before me, the undersigned authority, on this day personally appeared
__________________, known to me to be the person whose name is subscribed to
the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged to me that he executed the same for
purposes and considerations therein stated.
Given under my hand and seal of office this ________ day of ______________
20___.
(seal)   _____________
Notary Public,
________ County, Texas
         (b)   Certification by City Engineer.
I, the undersigned, City Engineer of the City of Martindale, Texas hereby
certify that this subdivision plat conforms to all requirements of the
subdivision regulations of the City as to which this approval is required.
_____________   (seal)
City Engineer
         (c)   Approval of City Planning and Zoning Commission.
This plat of the _______________________ subdivision has been submitted to and
considered by the City Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of
Martindale, Texas and is hereby approved by the Commission.
Dated this _______day of ____________, 20____
By:   Chairman   _______________________
Secretary   _______________________
         (d)   Certificate of Platting Surveyor.
State of Texas
County of ______________
I, the undersigned, a registered professional land surveyor in the State of
Texas, hereby certify that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from
an actual survey of the property made under my supervision on the ground.
(Surveyor's Seal)   ___________________
Registered Professional Land Surveyor
         (e)   Certificate of Platting Engineer.
State of Texas
County of ____________
I, the undersigned, a registered professional engineer in the State of Texas,
hereby certify that proper engineering consideration has been given to this
plat.
(Engineer's Seal)   ____________________
Registered Professional Engineer
         (f)   Utility provider certification.
This proposed subdivision plat has been reviewed and approved by the City of
Martindale for wastewater treatment capacity. All fees due for impact to the
system at time of connection will be calculated at submittal of building permit
application at the then current fee schedule.
________________________
Agent for City of Martindale
This subdivision plat of the _______________ subdivision has been submitted to
and approved by Bluebonnet Electric Cooperative for any required easements.
______________________________________
Agent for Bluebonnet Electric Cooperative
   (B)   Criteria for approval. The Planning and Zoning Commission in
considering final action on a preliminary plat, should consider the following
criteria:
      (1)   The plat is consistent with all zoning requirements for the
property or any approved development agreement;
      (2)   The plat conforms to the general layout of the Subdivision Master
Plan (if applicable) and is consistent with the phasing plan approved therein;
      (3)   The proposed provision and configuration of roads, water,
wastewater, drainage and park facilities conform to the master facilities plans
for the facilities, including without limitation the water facilities,
wastewater facilities, transportation, drainage and other master facilities
plans; and
      (4)   The proposed provision and configuration of roads, water,
wastewater, drainage and park facilities, and easements and rights-of-way are
adequate to serve the subdivision.
   (C)   Expiration and extension.
      (1)   The approval of a preliminary plat shall remain in effect for a
period of two years from the date the application was approved or conditionally
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission, during which period the
applicant shall submit and receive approval for a final plat for any portion of
the land subject to the preliminary plat. If a final plat has not been approved
within the two-year period, the preliminary plat approval, unless extended,
shall expire and the plat shall be null and void.
      (2)   At the request of the property owner or his or her representative,
the expiration date for approval of a preliminary plat may be extended by the
Planning and Zoning Commission for a period not to exceed six months. A
preliminary plat is not subject to reinstatement following expiration.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.092 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Application information. An application for a final plat shall include
the following information and documents:
      (1)   Location/vicinity map with north arrow;
      (2)   Title block located in lower right corner including subdivision
name, acreage, complete legal description including survey name and abstract
number, city, county and preparation date;
      (3)   County recording block;
      (4)   Legend, if abbreviations or symbols are used;
      (5)   Name, address and phone number of owner, developer, applicant and
surveyor;
      (6)   North arrow;
      (7)   Graphic and written scale (minimum one inch equals 100 feet);
      (8)   Surveyed property boundaries with bearings and distances;
      (9)   Legal metes and bounds description with calls matching boundary
bearings and distances;
      (10)   Lot dimensions including bearing and distances;
      (11)   Provide lot and block numbers for every lot (numbers only);
      (12)   List the total number of buildable lots;
      (13)   Front building setback lines along roadways (provide typical
detail of setbacks, including corner lots);
      (14)   Show proposed street names;
      (15)   Location of significant natural features, including floodplains,
water courses and wooded areas;
      (16)   Provide recording information for any existing easements (water,
sanitary sewer, storm drainage, electric, telephone, gas, cable television,
fire lanes and the like) and rights-of-way. Provide all bearing and distance
information on proposed easements including easements filed by separate
instrument;
      (17)   For residential subdivisions, a minimum of two points of public
access to existing public streets;
      (18)   Areas to be dedicated or reserved for right-of-way including
dimensions, area and providing bearings and distances of centerline;
      (19)   Location of existing and proposed FEMA 100-year floodplain limits
with elevations;
      (20)   Identify all boundary survey monumentation on the plat. The
proposed tract to the parent tract monumentation with bearings and distances;
      (21)   Boundary lines and acreage of the land to be dedicated to the city
for public parkland;
      (22)   Boundary lines and acreage of land proposed for private park
including note indicating ownership and maintenance responsibility;
      (23)   Subdivision name, owner name and address, and recording
information for all adjacent properties;
      (24)   For residential subdivisions, a one-foot non-access easement where
the rear, front or side of the property abuts a major or minor arterial;
      (25)   Location of city limits boundary and/or county boundary if they
traverse the subdivision, form part of the boundary of the subdivision or are
contiguous to the boundary;
      (26)   Provide letter from TxDOT regarding drainage and access adjacent
to TxDOT right-of-way;
      (27)   Any additional information as requested to clarify the proposed
development;
      (28)   Provide the following notes:
         (a)   Notice: selling a portion of this addition by metes and bounds
is a violation of city ordinances and state law and is subject to fines and
withholding of utilities and permits;
         (b)   According to flood insurance rate map, panel _________, dated
_____________, a 100-year floodplain (does or does not) exists on this site;
         (c)   If floodplain exists on the property, provide a note stating
that the finished floor elevation (FFE) of any structures shall be two feet
above the 100-year flood elevation;
         (d)   All private open space, common areas, greenbelts, drainage
easement and the like are the responsibility of the developer or its successors
and/or assigns;
         (e)   Electric utility note (where applicable);
         (f)   Any applicable notes required by TxDOT;
         (g)   Note stating that proposed parkland to be dedicated to the city
will be dedicated by a general warranty deed upon acceptance of the subdivision
by the city;
         (h)   State any and all waivers requested for the plat; and
         (i)   State any and all approved or requested waivers.
      (29)   Provide the following acknowledgments and certificates:
         (a)   Owner's acknowledgment.
State of Texas
County of _________
I (we) the undersigned, owner(s) of the land shown on this plat, and designated
herein as the______________________ subdivision to the City of
________________, Texas and whose name is subscribed hereto, hereby dedicate
for the use of the public forever all streets, alleys, parks, water courses,
drains, easements and public places thereon shown for the purpose and
consideration therein expressed.
State of Texas
County of _________________
Before me, the undersigned authority, on this day personally appeared
_____________, known to me to be the person whose name is subscribed to the
foregoing instrument, and acknowledged to me that he executed the same for
purposes and considerations therein stated.
Given under my hand and seal of office this _________ day of ____________
20____
(seal)   _______________
Notary Public,
__________________ County, Texas
         (b)   Certification by City Engineer.
I, the undersigned, City Engineer of the City of Martindale, Texas hereby
certify that this subdivision plat conforms to all requirements of the
subdivision regulations of the City as to which this approval is required.
___________   (seal)
City Engineer
         (c)   Approval of City Planning and Zoning Commission.
This plat of the______________________________________ subdivision has been
submitted to and considered by the City Planning and Zoning Commission of the
City of Martindale, Texas and is hereby approved by the Commission.
Dated this ________ day of_________________, 20____
By: Chairman __________________
Secretary______________________
         (d)   Certificate of Platting Surveyor.
State of Texas
County of ___________
I, the undersigned, a registered professional land surveyor in the State of
Texas, hereby certify that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from
an actual survey of the property made under my supervision on the ground.
(Surveyor's Seal)   ____________________________________
Registered Professional Land Surveyor
         (e)   Certificate of Platting Engineer.
State of Texas
County of _____________
I, the undersigned, a registered professional engineer in the State of Texas,
hereby certify that proper engineering consideration has been given to this
plat.
(Engineer's Seal)   ____________________
Registered Professional Engineer
         (f)   County recording block.
State of Texas
County of ________________
I ___________________ County Clerk of said County, do hereby certify that this
plat was filled for record in my office on the ___________ day of _____________
AD___at__________M, and duly recorded the _________________day
of______________AD__at____M, in the records of ___________ County, in book
volume ______ page _______ in testimony whereof, witness my hand and official
seal of office, this ____________ day of ___________ AD, 20_____.
County Clerk, ___________ County, Texas
By: _____________________
         (g)   Utility provider certification.
This subdivision plat of the_____________ subdivision has been submitted to and
approved by the City of Martindale for sewer service availability.
__________________________________
Agent for the City of Martindale
This subdivision plat of the_________________________ subdivision has been
submitted to and approved by Bluebonnet Electric Cooperative for easements.
___________________________________
Agent for Bluebonnet Electric Cooperative
   (B)   Criteria for approval. The Planning and Zoning Commission in
considering final action on a final plat, should consider the following
criteria:
      (1)   The final plat conforms to the approved preliminary plat, except
for minor changes that may be approved without the necessity of revising the
approved preliminary plat;
      (2)   The plat is consistent with the phasing plan approved with the
preliminary plat (where applicable);
      (3)   The final layout of the subdivision or development meets all
standards for adequacy of public facilities contained in this chapter; and
      (4)   The public infrastructure improvement plans have been approved by
the City's Engineer.
   (C)   Expiration and extension.
      (1)   The approval of a final plat shall remain in effect for a period of
two years from the date the application was approved or conditionally approved
by the Planning and Zoning Commission, during which period the applicant shall
submit any required revisions for approval and recordation of the plat. If the
final plat has not been recorded within the two-year period, the final plat
approval, unless extended, shall expire and the plat shall be null and void.
      (2)   At the request of the property owner or his or her representative,
the expiration date for approval of a final plat may be extended by the
Planning and Zoning Commission for a period not to exceed six months. A final
plat is not subject to reinstatement following expiration.
   (D)   Plat recordation.
      (1)   After approval of a final plat, the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall cause the City Planner, as appropriate, to record the final plat with the
County Clerk of the county in which the land is located upon the subdivider's
or developer's performance of one of the following:
         (a)   Completion of the construction of required improvements prior to
recordation; or
         (b)   Filing of security in lieu of completing construction.
      (2)   Where public infrastructure improvements have been installed prior
to recording of the plat, the property owner shall submit a maintenance bond
from each contractor, three sealed sets of "as-built" plans or record drawings,
one sealed set of "as-built" Mylars, and one CD containing a digital copy of
all plans (in a format as determined by the city), together with a letter
stating the contractors' compliance and bearing sealed certification by the
design engineer that all public improvements have been constructed in
compliance with all city construction standards. The property owner also shall
submit copies of the approved final plat with any required revisions on Mylars
and in the format and number required by the city, together with all
certifications required.
      (3)   Where public improvements have yet to be completed in connection
with an approved final plat, the property owner shall submit in the format and
number required by the city, copies of the approved final plat with any
required revisions on Mylars and in the format and number required by the city,
together with all certifications required. Where an agreement is to be executed
for the installation of public infrastructure improvements, the final plat
shall be accompanied by the security in lieu of construction of improvements.
      (4)   Upon notification of acceptance of required public improvements or
filing of security in lieu of infrastructure construction, the City Planner
shall procure the signature of the Chair of the Planning and Zoning Commission
on the plat and shall promptly cause the plat to be recorded.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.093 ENGINEERING PLANS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The developer shall have prepared a complete set of engineering
plans showing details of all streets, alleys, drainage structures, water
utility, sanitary sewer utility and electrical distribution system, combined
with construction standards, specifications and related details, which are to
be included for development. All cost related to the preparation of these plans
shall be paid for by the developer. The engineering plans shall be prepared by
a registered professional engineer, duly authorized to perform the specific
type of design required for this task.
      (2)   The engineer shall design and prepare engineering plans to utilize
the construction standards of the city. When no specific policy, standard or
ordinance exists, then he or she shall use the standard of the practices for
similar conditions. The plans shall be signed and sealed by the professional
engineer responsible for the design.
      (3)   All engineering plans shall be submitted on sheets 24 inches by 36
inches, including a minimum one-half-inch margin, except on the left border,
where a minimum two-inch binding margin will be provided, and when appropriate,
will show an overlay of the subdivision lints. When appropriate, standard
printed plan-profile sheets may be used.
   (B)   Engineering plans; minimum. The engineering plans will contain, as a
minimum:
      (1)   Title, index and certification page, as applicable;
      (2)   Existing detail:
         (a)   The exact location, dimensions, description and flow lines of
existing watercourses and drainage structures within the subdivision and
contiguous thereto;
         (b)   All existing improvements within the subdivision, except
structures to be removed and interior fences;
         (c)   All utility lines and roads, including type and size, of all
public utilities and roads within the subdivision and contiguous thereto; and
         (d)   Soil information which shall show characteristics for soil
bearing, shrink/swell, permeability and percolation.
      (3)   Each subdivision application shall include a topographic base map,
showing contours at intervals not greater than two feet. All topographic maps
shall be based on the National Geodetic Vertical Datum, and a benchmark shall
be shown giving its location and elevation. This sheet may be combined with the
existing detail sheet;
      (4)   Drainage area map and calculations in accordance with the drainage
ordinance;
      (5)   Street plan and profiles:
         (a)   To be at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet horizontal, with an
appropriate vertical scale. All horizontal and vertical curve data shall be
shown;
         (b)   When the street right-of-way property lines are not curved
chordally with the street, but the constructed street will have curves, the PC
and PT stationing, radius and length of each street curve, as a minimum, will
be given; and
         (c)   Street centerline stationing shall reference the subdivision
boundary, as appropriate.
      (6)   Sanitary sewer utility lines shall be shown on a standard plan-
profile sheet with a scale of one inch equals 50 feet horizontal and an
appropriate vertical scale. Stationing shall reference the subdivision
boundary, as appropriate;
      (7)   The water utilities system will generally be at a horizontal scale
of one inch equals 100 feet in the form of a general plan with appropriate
scale plan-profile sheets and details;
      (8)   Drainage channels, lines and structure shall be shown at a
horizontal scale of one inch equals 100 feet in the form of a general plan with
appropriate scale plan-profile sheets and details;
      (9)   Electrical distribution system plans shall be at a scale of one
inch equals 100 feet and all appurtenances shall be shown. Particular care
shall be taken to ensure that guy line easements and streetlight easements
shown on the plat correspond with the system;
      (10)   Utility system improvements and streets required, which are not
immediately adjacent to the subdivision, shall be shown as "off-site" plan and
profiles, as appropriate; and
      (11)   When improvement details shown in the construction standards of
the city are sufficient to provide for proper construction, no additional
details need to be shown on the plans.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
REQUIREMENTS PRIOR TO ACCEPTANCE OF THE SUBDIVISION BY THE CITY
§ 154.105 DEDICATION AND CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE.
   (A)   The approval of a plat is not considered an acceptance of any proposed
dedication and does not impose on the city any duty regarding the maintenance
or improvement of any dedicated parts until the city accepts required
improvements in accordance with this chapter or until the plat is recorded.
   (B)   To ensure that it will not incur liabilities, the city may require,
before it gives approval of the engineering plans for a development, that the
owner provide sufficient surety and warranty to guarantee that claims against
the development will be satisfied if a default or construction failure occurs.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.106 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Three complete sets of construction plans, specifications and
contracts including performance, payment and maintenance bonds covering the
construction, for or other satisfactorily written descriptions shall be filed
with the appropriate staff as designated by the City Planner upon filing of
final plat. These shall show features such as roadways, cross sections and
longitudinal slope for drainage, full description of proposed pavement or
street improvement, its grade and slope, dimensions and specifications
concerning public utilities to be installed showing proposed position on the
ground, specifications of materials and construction, and profile maps of all
sanitary and storm sewers showing both ground surface and flow line, and other
pertinent information of similar nature. These plans shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Street plans;
      (2)   Drainage plans;
      (3)   Sanitary sewer plans;
      (4)   Water line plans; and
      (5)   Overall utility layout.
   (B)   All the plans shall comply with specifications and design standards as
described in this chapter.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.107 INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All construction, such as street grading, site grading, erosion
control measures, street paving, drainage structures, curb and gutter, storm
sewers, sanitary sewers and water mains shall be subject to inspection during
the construction period by the city, and shall be constructed in accordance
with the approved engineering plans and the standard specifications governing
the work.
   (B)   Upon completion of construction, the city may request the engineer for
the city to make a final inspection of the work and to file a report of the
results of the inspection.
   (C)   Before work may begin, the subdivider shall furnish the city with a
pass thru fee in accordance with §
154.130 below for any inspection of the project. The fees shall be used to pay
for all inspection fees charged to the city by consultants or third party
inspection services. No person shall be granted notice to proceed to construct,
reconstruct, cut or repair any street, drainage or sanitary sewer facility
without paying the fees for the inspection of the work.
   (D)   The subdivider's contractor shall give at least 48-hours' notice in
writing to the city of intent to commence actual construction of the facilities
in order for inspection personnel to be made available.
   (E)   The subdivider shall delay connection of buildings to service lines of
sewer and water mains until the sewer and water mains and service lines have
been completed and accepted by the city.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the subdivider to notify all contractors and
sub-contractors working for him or her that all of their work is subject to
inspection by the City Inspector at any time. Certification of materials being
used may be required by the City Inspector.
   (G)   Laboratory tests required by the City Inspector shall be performed by
approved independent testing laboratories and will be at the discretion of the
City Inspector. Approved laboratories are laboratories that are members of the
American Council of Independent Laboratories and shall comply with standard
recommended practice for inspection and testing agencies for concrete, steel
and bituminous materials as used in construction (ASTM Designation E 329.) All
costs for laboratory tests shall be borne by the subdivider or his or her
contractor.
   (H)   Should any point not be covered in the plans, or subdivider's
agreement, the subdivider shall be required to contact the City Engineer for a
determination as to the city's requirements.
   (I)   Any work, which in the opinion of the City Inspector that does not
meet the city requirements or has not had proper city inspection, shall be
corrected. The Inspector shall notify the contractor and subdivider in writing,
of the reasons for requiring the contractor to cease all operations until the
defect has been corrected in order to comply with city requirements and receive
proper inspection.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.108 FINAL PLANS.
   Upon the completion of construction of any such utility or improvement, one
set of plans on record and complete final plans, dated, signed and certified by
the engineer in charge shall be filed with the city in digital format on
compact disc, showing all features as actually installed, including materials,
size, location, depth of elevation, numbers, end of lines, connections, wyes,
vahes, storm sewer drains, inlets and any other pertinent items. The city shall
not accept the utilities until the foregoing has been submitted to, and
approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.109 GUARANTEE OF PERFORMANCE.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be recorded unless the subdivider has
complied or provided for compliance with the policies and procedures set forth
in this chapter. Until the policies and procedures have been complied with by
the subdivider and the plat approved by the City Planning and Zoning Commission
as herein required, no building, water, sewer, plumbing, electrical or any
other public utility service permit shall be issued by the City Council for any
property in the subdivision.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.110 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   Prior to the recordation of any approved subdivision plat, the subdivider
must file with the City Secretary a bond executed by a surety company, holding
a license to do business in the state, in an amount equal to the estimate cost
of constructing the required improvements, as approved by the City Engineer,
guaranteeing to the city that all the improvements shall be constructed and
completed in a satisfactory manner and within a period of two years from the
date of plat approval. The cost estimate shall include an escalator clause
equal to the percent change according to a locally recognized construction cost
index for the preceding calendar quarter. The bond shall be approved by the
City Attorney and shall be made payable to and enforceable by the city. Upon
substantial compliance and acceptance of all improvements by the City Engineer,
the bond may be released in writing by the City Secretary and may be returned
to the developer.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.111 MAINTENANCE BOND.
   Where public infrastructure improvements have been installed prior to
recording of the plat, the property owner shall submit a maintenance bond from
each contractor, three sealed sets of "as-built" plans or record drawings, one
sealed set of "as-built" Mylars, and one CD containing a digital copy of all
plans (in a format as determined by the City Engineer together with a letter
stating the contractors' compliance in accordance with this chapter, and
bearing sealed certification by the design engineer that all public
improvements have been constructed in compliance with all city construction
standards. The property owner also shall submit copies of the approved final
plat with any required revisions on Mylars and in the format and number
required by the City Engineer, together with all certifications required.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.112 WHERE BOND NOT PREREQUISITE TO APPROVAL.
   The filing of a performance bond shall not be a condition precedent to the
approval of a plat where the subdivider, prior to the last regular meeting of
the City Planning and Zoning Commission and before the expiration of 30 days
from the date the plat was filed for approval, has signed and filed with the
City Planning and Zoning Commission a performance agreement in substantially
the following form:
I ____________, do hereby agree that, if the proposed plat , filed by me for
approval on the __________ day of __________________, is approved by the City
Planning and Zoning Commission of Martindale, Texas, the City Secretary of the
City may retain the plat in his/her possession, without recording same, until I
have either constructed all site improvements required under the provisions of
the City of Martindale Subdivision Ordinance, other than gas and electric
lines, or have filed with the City a bond in an amount equal to the cost of all
incompleted improvements as approved by the City Engineer, guaranteeing that
all the completed improvements will be constructed within two years from the
date of the bond.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.113 ACCEPTANCE BY CITY.
   (A)   All work performed in construction, reconstruction, cutting and
repairing of streets, storm sewer and other public improvements shall be
subject to the approval of the City Engineer, whose decision shall be final.
   (B)   The city shall not release the obligations of any financial assurance,
including performance bonds, until the improvements have been approved and
accepted by the city. The developer is strongly urged to withhold final payment
to the contractor until the acceptance occurs, since the city shall hold the
developer responsible for completion of the project. The city shall not approve
or arbitrate quantities for which payment is to be based.
   (C)   Acceptance by the city shall be in the form of a letter from the City
Engineer or other authorized city official to the subdivider stating that
inspections were conducted as the facilities were completed in accordance with
specifications and standards provided for herein or approved by the City
Council at the time the final plat was approved for the subdivision. The
developer shall instruct his or her engineer to prepare one set of reproducible
prints (Mylars) marked "As-Built" and dated the final date of acceptance. The
construction plans shall note as-built conditions and shall be accompanied by a
letter under the seal of the developer's registered professional engineer that
the drawings are an accurate record of constructed items built in place.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.114 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building permit, water, sewer, plumbing or electrical permit or service
shall be issued or allowed to a subdivider, owner or any other person with
respect to any property in any subdivision covered by this chapter until a time
as all of the applicable requirements of the ordinance have been satisfactorily
completed and the construction accepted by the city.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.115 DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council may defer, reduce or waive at the time of plat
approval, subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all the
improvements as, in its judgment, are not necessarily in the interest of the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Whenever it is deemed necessary by the City Council to defer the
construction of any improvements required herein because of incompatible
grades, future planning, inadequate or lack of connecting facilities, or for
other reasons, the subdivider shall pay his or her share of the cost of the
future improvements prior to approval and according of the final plat. In lieu
of a cash payment, the subdivider may use one of the other improvement
guarantees set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.116 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to initiating any construction work, the contractor and all
subcontractors shall conduct a preconstruction conference with the city, City
Engineer, City Inspector and all affected franchised utilities.
   (B)   Prior to the preconstruction conference, the contractor shall provide
a proposed construction sequence and schedule and a traffic safety plan, if
required, for review and approval by the City Engineer.
   (C)   As a general rule, the following construction sequence shall be
employed:
      (1)   Step 1. Install temporary erosion/sedimentation controls;
      (2)   Step 2. Rough cut streets;
      (3)   Step 3. Install utilities;
      (4)   Step 4. Final grading;
      (5)   Step 5. Paving; and
      (6)   Step 6. Hydromulch, final clean-up.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.117 OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF COMPLETED PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   Upon acceptance of completed construction, all street improvements including
construction of streets, alleys, thoroughfares, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
storm sewers and drainage channels within dedicated right-of-way and easements
shall be and remain the property of the city. The Contractor shall be
responsible for maintenance of the completed public improvement for a two-year
period following acceptance by the city. After expiration of the two-year
maintenance period, the improvements shall be maintained by the city.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.118 MONUMENTS.
   Monuments as prescribed herein shall be placed at all corners within the
subdivision. All block corners, angle points and points of curves, and all
corners of boundary lines of the subdivision shall be marked with a minimum
one-half-inch diameter ferrous rod, a minimum of two feet in length, set in the
center of a concrete monument, a minimum of six inches in diameter and 36
inches deep, with the top flush with the finished ground surface. Where, due to
topographic conditions, permanent structures or other conditions, the view is
obstructed between any two adjacent monuments, intermediate monuments shall be
so set as to assure a clear view between adjacent monuments. Intermediate
markers and lot corners not otherwise marked shall be marked with a minimum
one-half inch-diameter ferrous rod and at least three feet in length, driven
flush with the ground surface.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
ADMINISTRATION; FEES
§ 154.130 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   All reasonable costs incurred by the city for professional review of
concept plans, preliminary and final plats, as-built plats or plans,
engineering and other certificates and for inspection of improvements shall be
borne by the applicant and shall be payable to the city prior to final approval
of the final plat.
   (B)   The professional fees shall include, without limitation, civil
engineering, land planning, traffic engineering, related legal fees and
financial analysis in order to allow for proper evaluation of the application,
plats and other requirements to achieve compliance with the terms of this
chapter. In addition, a $10 fee to recover the city’s internal administrative
costs will be charged for each application that involves professional review
costs of $80 or less, and a $25 fee to recover the city’s internal
administrative costs will be charged for each application that involves
professional review costs of more than $80. At or prior to the time of the
initial conference referred to in §
154.021, the applicant shall file a deposit in the amount of $1,000, as a
deposit for the city’s costs.
   (C)   The actual costs shall be determined prior to final approval of the
final plat and either an additional amount shall be due from the applicant as a
condition of final approval and delivery of a certificate of approval, or
reimbursement will be made to the applicant if the actual costs are less than
the amount of the deposit. Upon written request by an applicant, the City
Secretary will provide to the applicant a detailed list of actual costs.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2012-03-01, passed 3-6-2012)
§ 154.131 AUTHORITY OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized and directed, in cooperation with
appropriate city staff, to promulgate rules, regulations, standards and
specifications for the construction, installation, design, location and
arrangement of streets, curbs, street lights, street signs, alleys, utility
layouts, utility easements, gates for utility easements, sidewalks, water
supply and water distribution systems, fire hydrants, sewage disposal systems,
septic tanks, water wells, monuments, criteria for drainage easement
requirements, drainage facilities and crosswalk ways to be subsequently
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   City staff shall recommend to the City Planning and Zoning Commission
any changes to be made. No rules, regulations, standards and specifications
shall conflict with this or any other ordinance of the city.
   (C)   All the improvements shall be constructed, installed, designed,
located and arranged by the subdivider in accordance with the rules,
regulations, standards and specifications.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 154.132 APPOINTMENT, TERM AND QUALIFICATIONS OF PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission of the city shall consist of five
members, to be elected by the City Council, at the first Council meeting
following the election, and qualification of new Council members following the
city election, annually. Each member of the Commission shall be a resident of
the city. The City Council shall designate a Chairperson of the Commission. The
Planning and Zoning Commission shall perform all of the duties prescribed in
this chapter, as well as the duties prescribed by the Zoning Ordinance of the
city. Any vacancy on the Commission shall be filled for the unexpired term by
the City Council at the next regular meeting of the City Council after the
vacancy occurs. The members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
In the event that no members have been appointed to the Commission by the City
Council, the City Council shall serve as the Planning and Zoning Commission
until the appointments have been made.
(Ord. 08-358, passed 11-18-2008)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Purpose
   
155.002   Definitions
   
155.003   Delineation of districts
   
155.004   Authenticity and maintenance of zoning map
   
155.005   Interpretation
Nonconformance
   
155.020   Nonconforming uses
   
155.021   Buildings
   
155.022   Nonconforming lots
   
155.023   Prohibited installation of mobile home
Zoning Agencies, Changes, Variations and Annexations
   
155.035   Building Official
   
155.036   Zoning Administrator
   
155.037   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
155.038   City Council
   
155.039   Board of Adjustment
   
155.040   Specific use permits
   
155.041   Zoning change
   
155.042   Variances
   
155.043   Special exceptions
   
155.044   Timing and effect of zoning after annexation
   
155.045   Application standards
Site Development Standards
   
155.060   Compatibility standards
   
155.061   Operational performance standards
   
155.062   Residential design manufactured housing standards
District Regulations
   
155.075   Districts established; compliance with district standards
   
155.076   R-1 Single-Family Residential
   
155.077   R-1A One- and Two-Family Residential
   
155.078   R-2 Manufactured Home District
   
155.079   R-3 Multi-Family Residential
   
155.080   R-4 Multi-Family Residential
   
155.081   MU Mixed Use District
   
155.082   C-1 Commercial District
   
155.083   C-2 Heavy Commercial District
   
155.084   I Industrial Use District
Supplementary District Regulations
   
155.095   Purpose
   
155.096   Use table
   
155.097   Supplementary use standards
   
155.098   Accessory uses and structures
Property Development Standards
   
155.110   Table of property development standards
   
155.111   Lot size/area
   
155.112   Setbacks
   
155.113   Height
Off-Street Parking Requirements
   
155.125   Administrative procedure
   
155.126   Exceptions to off-street parking requirements
   
155.127   Minimum requirements for spaces
   
155.128   Rules for computing number of spaces
   
155.129   Construction or use changes
   
155.130   Location of spaces
   
155.131   Minimum dimensions
   
155.132   Design standards
   
155.133   Accessible parking spaces for persons with disabilities
Overlay District Regulations
   
155.145   Generally
   
155.146   PUD Planned Unit Development Overlay District
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted in accordance with the master plan of the city
adopted in 1997, and subject to amendment thereafter to promote the safety,
health and general welfare of the community by regulating development within
the city, to lessen congestion in the streets, secure safety from fire, panic
and other dangers, promote health and the general welfare, provide adequate
light and air, prevent the overcrowding of land, avoid undue concentration of
population, and to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewers, schools, parks and other public requirements.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When
consistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always
mandatory, while the word "may" implies an option. Definitions not expressly
prescribed herein are to be determined in accordance with the law. Definitions
expressly prescribed herein are to be construed in accordance with the city's
subdivision ordinance or other applicable ordinances of the city, or in the
absence of those ordinances, then in accordance with the customary usage in
municipal planning, surveying and engineering practices.
   ACCESS. A means of egress and ingress from a tract of land to a dedicated
right-of-way or from a city-approved private street.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A structure, the use of which is incidental, appropriate
and subordinate to that of the principal structure on the same lot.
   ACCESSORY USE. A land use, activity or structure that is customarily
incidental, appropriate and subordinate to the principal use of the land or of
the principal structure on the same lot.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land including but not limited to farming, dairying,
ranching or animal or poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory operations
for packing, crating or storing the produce; provided that the operations of
any such accessory operations must be secondary to that of the normal
agricultural activities.
   APARTMENT. See MULTI-FAMILY.
   BASEMENT. The part of a building with more than half its height below the
average ground level. A BASEMENT shall not be counted as a story. This term
includes CELLAR.
   BOARD. The Board of Adjustment of the City of Martindale.
   BOARDINGHOUSE. A dwelling, other than a hotel or motel, where not more than
four separate sleeping rooms for unrelated persons are provided for
compensation. This term includes ROOMING HOUSE.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after the required setbacks
have been provided.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average ground level to the
highest point of the roof.
   BUILDING LINE. A line within a lot defined by the minimum permitted
horizontal distance from an adjacent property line.
   CELLAR. See BASEMENT.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. Any place, home or institution which provides temporary
custodial care and is regulated by the state.
   COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the city.
   COMPREHENSIVE MASTER PLAN. A statement of public policy containing the goals
and objectives of the community which may include:
      (1)   Capital improvements programs;
      (2)   Land use plan;
      (3)   Thoroughfare plan;
      (4)   Community facilities plan; and
      (5)   Subdivision and zoning regulations and other development codes,
ordinances, policies and plans promulgated by the Council for the quality and
orderly growth of the community.
   CONDOMINIUM. A type of multi-family dwelling in which each dwelling unit is
owned by the occupant but in which the halls, entrance ways and underlying land
are wholly or in part jointly owned.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Martindale.
   DEVELOPMENT TYPE. The form and use of a residential structure allowed or
permitted within the various residential districts within the city.
   DUPLEX. A residential development type which provides for two dwelling units
within a single principal structure. Separate ownership of units with separate
and/or common ownership of portions of accessory buildings or yard areas does
not constitute a condominium.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons; including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   FAMILY HOME DAY CARE (ADULT). A facility that regularly provides care in the
caretaker's own residence for not more than six adults at any given time, and
that conforms to Tex. Human Resources Code, Ch. 42, and all other applicable
state standards.
   FAMILY HOME DAY CARE (CHILDREN). A facility that regularly provides care and
supervision in the caretaker's own residence for not more than six children
under the age of 14 years, excluding the caretaker's own children, and that
conforms to Tex. Human Resources Code, Ch. 42, and all other applicable state
standards.
   FRAME VERNACULAR. Architecture having a wooden framework, often exposed,
with plaster, brick, stone or other masonry filling the spaces.
   GABLE ROOF STYLE. A roof having a single slope on each side of a central
ridge; usually with a gable at one or at both ends of the roof.
   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre utilizing the entire
parcel of land, including open spaces and one-half of the adjoining right-of-
way.
   GROUP HOME. A specialized lodging and boarding house which provides long
term supervised housing in a conventional residential setting for no more than
six persons who are physically, mentally or developmentally disabled or are
victims of crime, and having no more than two supervisory personnel in
residence at the same time.
   GUEST HOUSE. An attached or detached accessory unit, containing no kitchen
or cooking facilities, used to house guests of the occupants of the principal
building, and which is not rented separately.
   HEAVY INDUSTRY. Establishments engaged in the manufacturing of products from
extracted or raw materials or the bulk storage and handling of the products and
materials; or a use engaged in storage or manufacturing processes involving
flammable or explosive materials or storage and manufacturing processes that
involve potentially hazardous materials or materials commonly recognized as
offensive. Uses in this category typically involve a high incidence of truck or
rail traffic and outdoor storage of products, materials, equipment or bulk
fuel. HEAVY INDUSTRY includes such uses as chemical manufacturing or
processing; food processing and packaging plants over 10,000 square feet in
size; laundry and dry cleaning plants over 10,000 square feet in size; oil or
gas wells and facilities for exploration, production or refining of oil or gas;
gas or oil pipeline manufacturing; tank farms, oil or gas storage;
slaughterhouses and animal stockyards; concrete, asphalt and tar plants; scrap,
junk or metal recovery yards, tire storage or recycling yards; stonework and
concrete manufacturing; power generation plants; mining or excavation for
commercial purposes; refuse collection, refuse transfer and recycling
facilities that are not fully enclosed; sanitary landfills; and other similar
uses.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by the inhabitants
of a dwelling which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
structure for dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof,
and which is conducted entirely within the main or accessory buildings;
provided that no trading in merchandise is carried on.
   HOTEL. A building or group of buildings designed and occupied as a temporary
abiding place of individuals. To be classified as a HOTEL or MOTEL, an
establishment shall provide five or more individual guestrooms or units and
shall furnish customary hotel services such as linen, maid service, telephone,
use and upkeep of furniture. This term includes MOTELS.
   HUD-CODE MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, constructed on or after June 15,
1976, meeting the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards
Act as administered by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development. The term does not include mobile homes or recreational vehicles as
defined in this section.
   INDOOR RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENT FACILITIES. Arcade, billiard/
pool hall, bowling alley, skating rink, gymnasium, natatorium, health club or
theater within an entirely enclosed building.
   INDUSTRIALIZED DWELLING. See MODULAR DWELLING.
   LAND USE PLAN. A document adopted by the Council which attempts to identify
and guide growth within the city, and is a part of the comprehensive master
plan.
   LANDSCAPE AREA. An area greater than one foot in width within the developed
area of a lot or parcel that is comprised of pervious surface integrated with
living plant material, including but not limited to trees, shrubs, flowers,
grass or other living ground cover, or native vegetation. Undeveloped portions
of the site cannot be considered LANDSCAPED AREA.
   LIGHT INDUSTRY. An establishment engaged in the manufacture of finished
products or parts, predominately using previously prepared materials, including
processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment and packaging of the products, and
incidental storage, sales and distribution of the products.
   LOT DEPTH. The average of the length of the side lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH. The average of the length of the front lot line and of the rear
lot line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A HUD-Code manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A tract of land not less than five acres in size
under single ownership, which is designed and improved to contain two or more
spaces available for long-term lease or rent to the public for the placement of
manufactured homes, and which may include private streets, buildings and other
facilities and services for common use by the residents, in conformance with
the regulations and ordinances of the city.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A division of land not less than five acres
in size for the purpose of sale of two or more lots intended to be developed
with residential units including manufactured homes, and having all necessary
public utilities, streets and other facilities required by
Chapter 154.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure that was constructed before June 15, 1976,
transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode is eight
body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or when erected
on site is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis
and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating,
air conditioning and electrical systems. The term does not include recreational
vehicles as defined in this section.
   MODULAR DWELLING. A prefabricated single-family or duplex dwelling assembled
on a permanent foundation that is not a manufactured home, as defined in this
section, and has been constructed and inspected so that it complies with the
State Industrialized Housing and Buildings Act as administered by the State
Department of Licensing and Regulation, and which complies with the
International Residential Code as currently adopted by the city. MODULAR
DWELLINGS shall be considered the same as the corresponding site-built single-
family or duplex residential development types for the purpose of regulation
under this chapter.
   MOTEL. See HOTEL.
   MULTI-FAMILY. A residential development type which provides for five or more
dwelling units within a single principal structure. Separate ownership of one
or more units shall constitute a condominium. This term includes and is
synonymous with APARTMENT.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. Any building, or part thereof, lawfully existing or
occupied at the effective date of this chapter that does not comply, after the
passage of this chapter, with the height, yard or coverage area regulations of
the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. Any lot lawfully existing at the effective date of this
chapter that does not comply, after the passage of this chapter, to the width,
depth and area regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use lawfully existing at the effective date of this
chapter that does not comply, after the passage of this chapter, with the use,
parking, loading or screening regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   PATIO HOME. A residential single-family development type which provides for
utilization of the presently existing small lots within the city. This term
includes zero-lot-line home, garden home and other similar dwellings.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. The primary building on a lot which by its design
defines the use and character of the tract.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular-type portable structure without a
permanent foundation that can be towed, hauled or driven which is designed as a
temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use, and
which includes but is not limited to travel-trailers, truck-campers, camping
trailers and self-propelled motor homes.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. A nonputrescible, source-separated, nonhazardous
material that has been recovered or diverted from the municipal waste stream
for purposes of reuse, recycling or reclamation, a substantial portion of which
is consistently used in the manufacture of products that may otherwise be
produced using raw or virgin materials.
   RECYCLING FACILITY. A collection point for recyclable materials that is
exempt from State Commission on Environmental Quality municipal solid waste
permitting and registration requirements under the Texas Administrative Code.
   ROOMING HOUSE. See BOARDINGHOUSE.
   ROW HOUSE. See TOWNHOUSE.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult book store, adult video arcade, adult
movie theater, massage parlor (other than a state registered massage or therapy
service), sexual encounter center, nude modeling studio, cabaret, gentlemen's
club or other establishment that either: has any form of live or recorded
entertainment that provides sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to
patrons; and/or which devotes more than 20% of its merchandise display area, or
signage or other advertising, to the sale, rental or exhibition of devices,
materials or other items used for sexual stimulation or gratification or which
depict sexual nudity or sexual activities, or which derives more than 20% of
its gross net revenues from the sales, rental or exhibition.
   SIGHT VISIBILITY TRIANGLE.
      (1)   The area at the intersection of two streets or a driveway and
street, within which nothing may be placed, planted, erected or allowed to grow
in a manner which will obstruct the vision of motorists entering or leaving the
intersection.
      (2)   The TRIANGLE is formed by measuring 25 feet along each street from
the intersection of two streets, or 15 feet at the intersection of a driveway
and street, and connecting the ends of those two lines.
      (3)   No structure, sign, fence or plant material above three feet and
below 12 feet in height may be placed in the SIGHT TRIANGLE, except for a
single pole 18 inches or less in diameter.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE. A residential development type which provides for a
single dwelling unit within a single principal structure. Unless specifically
stated elsewhere, only one SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE may be permitted per lot.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE, ATTACHED. A single-family dwelling situated on a
separate lot but attached to another dwelling on one or more sides by a party
wall or walls. See TOWNHOUSE.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE, DETACHED. A dwelling that is not attached to any
other dwelling, excluding accessory buildings.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground including, but not
limited to, buildings, factories, sheds, cabins, manufactured homes and other
similar forms.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. A document adopted by the Council which attempts to
identify and guide the locations of arterial and collector streets within the
city and is a part of the comprehensive master plan.
   TOWNHOUSE. A residential development type which provides for five or more
dwelling units generally separated by common walls within a single structure.
Usually, each dwelling unit is placed on an individually owned lot and each
story of the structure on each lot is under the same ownership. Some areas and
yards may be commonly owned. A TOWNHOUSE where the lot under and immediately
adjacent to the structure is individually owned does not constitute a
condominium. This term includes ROW HOUSE.
   TUBING-RELATED BUSINESS. A person, firm, corporation, or partnership that
owns or operates a business that offers or provides tubes, rafts or other
inflatable devices on a rental, deposit, or other short-term or temporary basis
for use on a river, whether by themselves or in connection with any other goods
or services offered or provided by the business, or that offers or provides
transportation services related to the use of tubes, rafts or other inflatable
devices on a river.   
   USE. Any activity, function or purpose to which a parcel of land or building
is put and shall include the words "used", "arranged" or "occupied" for any
purpose, including all residential, commercial business, industrial, public or
other use.
      (1)   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is wholly incidental to and supportive
of the principal use of the same lot.
      (2)   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary purpose for which land or a building is
used as permitted by the applicable zoning district.
   YARD. An open space of ground between a structure and the adjoining lot
lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the
ground upward, except as otherwise provided. In measuring a YARD, the least
horizontal distance between the lot line and the structure shall be used.
      (1)   FRONT YARD. A yard across the full width of the lot from the front
wall of a structure to the front line of the lot.
      (2)   REAR YARD. A yard across the full width of the lot from the rear
wall of a structure to the rear line of the lot.
      (3)   REQUIRED YARD. The area between a lot line and the adjacent setback
line. The area within a lot which does not constitute a buildable area.
      (4)   SIDE YARD. A yard between the wall of a structure and the adjacent
side line of the lot, and extending from the front wall of a structure to the
rear wall of a structure. No vertical structures, other than fences and air
conditioner compressors, are allowed in any required yard.
   VICTORIAN ARCHITECTURE. A style of architecture, decoration and furnishing
of the 19th century, characterized by massiveness, flowery carving and ornate
design.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The same person designated by the City Council as
Building Official of the city, unless City Council designates a separate Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2016-06-07, passed 6-7-2016; Ord. 2016-08-
02, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 155.003 DELINEATION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The city is hereby divided into zones, or districts and the boundaries
of zoning districts set out herein are delineated upon the official zoning map
of the city, adopted herein.
   (B)   All land, buildings, structures or appurtenances located within the
city shall be occupied, used, erected, altered removed, placed, demolished and/
or converted in conformance with the zoning regulations prescribed for the
zoning district in which the land, building, structure or appurtenance is
located.
   (C)   All of the standards and regulations contained herein shall be
considered as minimum requirements unless explicitly stated otherwise.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.004 AUTHENTICITY AND MAINTENANCE OF ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The city adopts and declares to be a part of this chapter that map
prepared in 2008, and adopted on the date of passage of this chapter as the
official zoning map.
   (B)   The map shall be signed by the Zoning Administrator to attest to its
accuracy.
   (C)   The map shall be signed by the Mayor to attest to its adoption by the
City Council.
   (D)   The map shall be signed by the City Secretary to attest to its
authenticity and to its receipt on the date of adoption.
   (E)   The map shall be displayed in a secured transparent-faced case at a
public location at City Hall.
   (F)   Changes to the official zoning map shall be made only under the direct
supervision of the Zoning Administrator.
   (G)   Changes made to the corporate limits of the city or additions or
subdivisions approved by the Council and subsequently recorded shall be added
to the map and a marginal notation made giving the annexation ordinance number
and adoption date, along with the volume and page where recorded, or the
subdivision/addition name and the plat book and page where recorded. The
notation shall be dated and initialed by the Zoning Administrator.
   (H)   Rezoned tracts shall be individually outlined on the map.
      (1)   Each rezoned tract shall be marked with a sequential key number and
a marginal notation made giving the key number, new zoning designation, agency
approving the action, and a reference to the ordinance or court order
authorizing the action.
      (2)   The notation shall be dated and initialed by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (I)   Copies of all or part of the official zoning map may be made for use,
sale or reference; but only the original of the official zoning map, as
amended, shall be deemed as the official current zoning status within the city.
   (J)   If the official zoning map becomes difficult to interpret due to
damage or due to the number and/or nature of changes or additions thereto, the
Council may adopt by ordinance a new official zoning map which shall supersede
the prior map.
      (1)   The new official zoning map may also correct drafting or other
errors or omissions in the prior map, but no correction shall have the effect
of amending the prior map.
      (2)   The new official zoning map shall reference the effective date of
the prior map and shall be attested and authenticated as in divisions (B), (C)
and (D) above.
   (K)   Should the official zoning map become lost or destroyed, a new
official zoning map shall be reconstructed by the Zoning Administrator from any
reliable source of copies and from the other documentation available.
      (1)   After a public hearing concerning the accuracy thereof, the Council
may adopt by ordinance the map to be the new official zoning map.
      (2)   The new official zoning map shall be attested and authenticated as
in divisions (B), (C) and (D) above.
      (3)   Should the lost map be discovered prior to amendment of the
reconstructed map, the reconstructed map shall be void.
      (4)   If one or more amendments have been made to the reconstructed map,
the corrections to the reconstructed map, as are needed to bring it into
conformity with the previously lost map, shall be made by the Zoning
Administrator as in division (H) above, and those property owners affected by
the corrections notified by ordinary mail.
      (5)   The reconstructed map shall then continue in effect as the official
zoning map.
   (L)   Any superseded official zoning map, or remaining portions thereof,
along with documentation of actions modifying the maps shall be maintained in
the files of the city.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.005 INTERPRETATION.
   Where uncertainties exist with respect to the intended boundaries of the
various districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following rules
shall apply.
   (A)   Unless otherwise clearly shown on the map, where district boundaries
follow the centerline of a street, alley, waterway, railroads or other rights-
of-way, the centerline of such or, where appropriate, the extension or
continuation of the centerline shall be construed to be the district boundary.
   (B)   Unless otherwise clearly shown on the map, where district boundaries
follow approximately along lot or tract lines, the actual lot or tract line or,
where appropriate, the extension thereof, shall constitute the boundary.
   (C)   When property is hereafter subdivided into lots and blocks and the
district lines on the official zoning map differ from the platted lines, the
nearest platted line shall become the district boundary, unless indicated
otherwise on the plat of the subdivision.
   (D)   Where a district boundary crosses an existing platted or described lot
or tract, the nearest existing property line, as of January 1, 2008, shall be
construed to be the district boundary.
   (E)   Where a district boundary cresses an unsubdivided tract larger than
two acres, the location of the boundary shall be determined from the nearest
identifiable line shown on the map by use of the scale appearing on the map.
   (F)   When none of the above apply or there is a dispute as to actual
location of the district boundary, the Commission shall make the determination.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
NONCONFORMANCE
§ 155.020 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   In those areas annexed in which nonconforming uses exist at the time
of annexation, the uses may be continued, subject to the provisions of this
section.
   (B)   Any use which is listed as a specific use within the district for
which it is zoned shall be considered to be a nonconforming use until a
specific use permit has been granted.
   (C)   (1)   No existing building or portion thereof devoted to a
nonconforming use shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed,
moved or otherwise structurally altered except that it may be repaired or
remodeled provided that the gross floor area is not increased.
      (2)   The nonconforming use shall cease if the total cost of repairs or
remodeling would exceed 60% of its assessed value for tax purposes.
   (D)   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building
that were manifestly arranged or designed for the use at the time of adoption
of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside
the building except to provide required off-street loading or off-street
parking space.
   (E)   A conforming use in a nonconforming building may be changed to another
conforming use.
   (F)   When a nonconforming use is changed to a conforming use, it shall not
thereafter be changed back to a nonconforming use.
   (G)   A nonconforming use shall not be changed to another nonconforming use,
unless authorized as a special exception by the Board of Adjustment.
   (H)   When a nonconforming use is discontinued for a consecutive period
exceeding six months, whether with intent to abandon the use or not, the use
shall not resume except in conformance with the regulations of the district in
which the premises is located, or unless a special exception is granted for
resumption of the discontinued use as authorized in §
155.043. Resumption of a discontinued nonconforming use shall be subject to
compliance with all applicable building and fire codes.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.021 BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A nonconforming building, as defined in this chapter, shall not be
enlarged, nor shall it be structurally altered, unless the enlargement or
alteration is otherwise in conformance with all applicable standards of the
district in which it is located, or to provide for continued safe use of the
structure as determined by the Building Official.
   (B)   Nonstructural repair or remodeling of a nonconforming building is
permitted provided that the degree of nonconformity is not increased.
   (C)   A nonconforming building shall not be repaired, restored or
reconstructed if it is destroyed or damaged above its foundation to such an
extent that the cost to restore the structure to its condition prior to the
damage exceeds 60% of its assessed value for tax purposes, exclusive of the
value of the foundation.
      (1)   If the building can be repaired, restored or reconstructed at a
cost of less than 60% of its assessed value, it may then continue to be used as
before.
      (2)   The repair, restoration or reconstruction must be completed within
12 months of the damaging event.
   (D)   When a nonconforming building is in the process of construction (all
foundation forms being in place) or in the process of alteration or repair (all
materials having been delivered) on the date that the premises is annexed into
the city limits, the construction, alteration or repair may be continued upon
issuance of a building permit. The construction, alteration or repair shall be
completed within 12 months of annexation.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.022 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   A nonconforming lot, as defined in this chapter, may be developed or
redeveloped if it is shown by a recorded plat or deed to have been owned
separately and individually from adjoining parcels of land on January 1, 2008,
and since that date has remained under different ownership from all adjoining
parcels.
   (B)   In any residential district, a dwelling permitted by the applicable
district regulations may be erected on a lawfully nonconforming lot having no
dimension or area less than 70% of the normal minimum required, provided that
the lot and buildings thereon comply with all other requirements of the
district, except that where the lot width is nonconforming, side yards may be
reduced to a minimum of five feet where a greater setback would otherwise be
required.
   (C)   In districts other than residential, a building designed for a use
permitted by right in the applicable district may be erected on a lawfully
nonconforming lot provided that the lot and buildings thereon comply with all
other requirements of the district.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.023 PROHIBITED INSTALLATION OF MOBILE HOME.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful from and after the effective date of this chapter
to install any mobile home, as defined by this chapter, on any lot, tract, or
parcel of land or manufactured home park within the limits of the city.
Existing mobile homes may remain until a time that the legal nonconforming
status is terminated as provided in §
155.020 above.
   (B)   Replacement of a mobile home with, or the first time installation of,
a manufactured home may be permitted, but only in conformance with the
applicable provisions of this chapter and of other applicable regulations and
ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
ZONING AGENCIES, CHANGES, VARIATIONS AND ANNEXATIONS
§ 155.035 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Building Official. The Building Official is the city staff member or
consultant who is the chief code enforcement officer for zoning and for
building construction compliance. The Building Official and his or her
alternate are appointed by the City Council. The Building Official shall serve
as a staff resource person during those meetings of the Commission, the Board
or the Council when a zoning action is before that body.
   (B)   Responsibilities and duties. The Building Official shall have the
following responsibilities and duties:
      (1)   Review and participate in staff processing of the following:
         (a)   Building permits;
         (b)   Zoning variance requests;
         (c)   Specific use permits;
         (d)   Rezoning requests; and
         (e)   Special exceptions.
      (2)   Code enforcement:
         (a)   The Building Official is responsible for enforcement of building
codes adopted by the Council; and
         (b)   As chief code enforcement officer the Building Official shall
issue a stop order or a citation against any person in violation of this
chapter and shall revoke any permit where it appears that there is a departure
from plans, specifications or conditions as required under the terms of the
permit, where the permit was issued by mistake, where the permit was procured
by false representation or where any provisions of this chapter are being
violated.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.036 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Building Official shall be the Zoning Administrator, unless the
Council appoints a separate Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator or alternate shall have the following
authority and duties:
      (1)   Administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Serve as a nonvoting ex officio member, serve as Secretary and
maintain the office of record of the Commission and the Board; and
      (3)   Review and coordinate staff activities with respect to the
following applications:
         (a)   Zoning variance requests;
         (b)   Specific use permits;
         (c)   Rezoning requests; and
         (d)   Special exceptions.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.037 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Composition and method of appointment.
      (1)   The Council will serve as the Commission unless and until the
Council appoints members of a separate Commission. If the Council appoints
members of a separate Commission, the Commission shall consist of five members.
The initial appointments of members of a separate Commission may occur at any
regular Council meeting. Thereafter, Commission members will be appointed by
the City Council for one year terms at the first regular Council meeting
following each general city election. Each member of the Commission shall be a
resident of the city. Any vacancy on the Commission shall be filled for the
unexpired term by the Council at the next regular meeting of the Council after
the vacancy occurs. The members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation. In the event that no members are appointed to the Commission by
the Council at the first regular Council meeting following a general city
election, the Council shall again serve as the Commission until the Council
appoints members of a separate Commission. In the absence of a separate
Commission, any reference in this chapter to the Commission means the Council
serving as the Commission.
      (2)   The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson of the Commission shall be
elected by majority vote of the Commission members at the first regular meeting
after the appointment of the Commission members by the Council. In the absence
of the Chairperson and the Vice-Chairperson at any meeting, an acting
Chairperson shall be elected by a majority vote of all members present. If the
Council is serving as the Commission, the Council will elect a Chairperson and
Vice-Chairperson of the Commission by majority vote at the first regular
Council meeting following each general city election.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall be a nonvoting ex officio member of
the Commission, shall serve as secretary of the Commission and shall maintain
the records of the Commission.
      (4)   A quorum of the Commission shall consist of a minimum of three
members of the Commission and any issue shall be decided by a majority vote of
those members present unless otherwise provided in this chapter or state law.
The member serving as Chairperson for the meeting is entitled to vote but has
no veto power.
   (B)   Meetings.
      (1)   The Commission shall meet upon call of the Mayor, Zoning
Administrator or Chairperson when there is a case to be heard by the Commission
or when there is other business to be conducted that is within the
responsibility of the Commission.
      (2)   All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public and
minutes shall be kept and maintained as public records.
      (3)   The meetings of the Commission are subject to the Open Meetings
Law. Notice shall be posted and record minutes kept according to law.
   (C)   Authority. The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   Review applications for zoning changes, hear public comments and
make recommendations to the Council regarding the applications;
      (2)   Review applications for specific use permits, hear public comments
and grant, grant with modification or deny the applications;
      (3)   Recommend to the Council amendments, extensions and additions to
the comprehensive master plan of the city, including the land use plan and the
thoroughfare plan;
      (4)   Make reccomendations to the Council on proposed changes to the
official zoning map of the city;
      (5)   When appropriate, make a determination of appropriate zoning or
use; and
      (6)   Perform other duties as may be duly delegated to them from time to
time by the Council or as described in this chapter or state law.
   (D)   Appeal. Where an appeal is provided for in this chapter or state law,
a person aggrieved by any action of the Commission must submit the appeal to
the Council at the next regular Council meeting that occurs after the action by
the Commission.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-20-1, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 155.038 CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council shall have the following authority under this chapter:
      (1)   Appoint members, and alternate members when appropriate, to both
the Commission and the Board;
      (2)   Remove from office members of the Commission and the Board when
appropriate;
      (3)   Adopt or reject, after public hearing, changes to any portion of
this chapter;
      (4)   Repeal, after public hearing, this chapter or any portion thereof;
      (5)   Act upon recommendations of the Commission concerning amendments,
extensions and additions to the comprehensive master plan of the city and to
the official zoning map of the city;
      (6)   Receive applications for zoning changes that have been reviewed by
the Commission, hear public comments and grant, grant with modification or deny
the applications;
      (7)   Hear appeals from applicants concerning actions by the Commission,
hear public comment and grant, grant with modification or deny the appeals; and
      (8)   Establish a schedule of fees or charges for any application or
action under this chapter.
   (B)   Where an appeal is provided for in this chapter or state law, a person
aggrieved by action of the Council may appeal to a court of competent
jurisdiction for relief.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-20-1, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 155.039 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Council will serve as the Board unless and until the Council
appoints members of a separate Board. If the Council appoints members of a
separate Board the Board shall consist of five members to be appointed for a
term of two years each. If the Council appoints members of a separate Board,
the Council may appoint up to three alternate members to serve in the absence
of one or more regular members when requested to do so by the Mayor or the
Zoning Administrator. The initial appointments of members of a separate Board
may occur at any regular Council meeting, and the terms of the initial members
will be until the next general city election. Thereafter, Board members will be
appointed by the Council for full two-year terms at the first regular Council
meeting following the next general city election. The Council may authorize
each member of the Council to appoint one member to the Board. The Council may
remove a Board member for cause as found by the Council on a written charge
after a public hearing. A vacancy on the Board shall be filled for the
unexpired term by vote of the Council. An alternate member shall serve for the
same period as a regular member and is subject to removal in the same manner as
a regular member. A vacancy among the alternate members shall be filled in the
same manner as a vacancy among the regular members. In the absence of a
separate Board, any reference in this chapter to the Board means the Council
serving as the Board.
   (B)   Each case before the Board must be heard by at least 75% of the
members.
   (C)   The members of the Council may act as members of the Board of
Adjustment, upon majority vote by the Council.
   (D)   The Board shall select a Chair at its first meeting after regular
appointments are made by the Council. If the Council is serving as the Board,
the Council will elect a Chair and Vice-Chair of the Board bv majority vote at
the first regular Council meeting following each general city election.
Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chair of the Board, and
at other times as determined by the Board or by the Mayor. All meetings of the
Board shall be open to the public and notice shall be given in compliance with
the Open Meetings Law. The Chair may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings that indicate the
vote of each member on each question or the fact that a member is absent or
fails to vote. The Board shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions. The minutes and records shall be filed immediately in the
office of the City Clerk and are public records.
   (E)   The Board shall have the authority prescribed in Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code
§ 211.009 as it may be amended from time to time, including the right to hear
and decide an appeal from a decision of the Zoning Administrator, to authorize
in specific cases a variance from the terms of this chapter to grant special
exceptions, and to hear and decide other matters authorized by this chapter or
any other ordinance of the city.
   (F)   The concurrent vote of 75% of the members of the Board shall be
necessary to:
      (1)   Reverse an order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Zoning Administrator;
      (2)   Decide in favor of an applicant on a matter on which the Board is
required to pass under this chapter; or
      (3)   Authorize a variation from the terms of this chapter.
   (G)   (1)   Any of the following persons may appeal to the Board a decision
made by the Zoning Administrator:
         (a)   A person aggrieved by the decision; or
         (b)   Any officer, department or board of the city affected by the
decision.
      (2)   The appellant must file with the Board and the Zoning Administrator
a properly completed notice of appeal, specifying the grounds for the appeal,
within 20 days of the date of the decision.
      (3)   Upon receiving the properly completed notice, the Zoning
Administrator will make all city records related to the appeal available to the
Board. An appeal stays all city enforcement proceedings that relate directly to
the matter that is being appealed unless the Zoning Administrator certifies in
writing to the Board facts supporting the opinion of the Zoning Administrator
that a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In that case, the
proceedings may be stayed only by a restraining order granted by the Board or a
court of record on application, after notice to the Zoning Administrator, if
due cause is shown.
      (4)   The Board shall set a reasonable time for the appeal hearing and
give public notice of the hearing and due notice to the parties in interest. A
party may appear at the appeal hearing in person or by agent or attorney. The
Board shall decide the appeal within a reasonable time. A member of the Council
who serves on the Board may not bring an appeal.
   (H)   Any of the following persons may present to a District Court, county
court or county court at law a verified petition stating that the decision of
the Board is illegal in whole or in part and specifying the grounds of the
illegality:
      (1)   A person aggrieved by the decision of the Board;
      (2)   A taxpayer; or
      (3)   An officer, department, board or bureau of the city.
   (I)   The procedures provided by Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 211.011, as it may
be amended from time to time, shall govern the judicial review of the Board’s
decision.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-20-1, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 155.040 SPECIFIC USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a specific use permit is to allow the
establishment of uses which may be suitable only in certain locations in a
zoning district or only when subject to standards and conditions that assure
compatibility with adjoining uses. Specific uses are generally compatible with
the permitted uses in a particular zoning district, but they require individual
review of their proposed location or design, and the imposition of conditions
in order to ensure the appropriateness of the use at the particular location.
   (B)   Required. To utilize a tract for those purposes which are authorized
as specific uses within each zoning district, a specific use permit is required
from the Commission.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   The application for a specific use permit must be made by the title
holder or his or her attorney in fact.
      (2)   An application for a specific use permit shall be obtained from the
City Clerk, and shall contain the following minimum information:
         (a)   Name, mailing address and contact telephone number of the
applicant;
         (b)   Street address and legal description of the property for which
the permit is to be obtained. The legal description, with recordation data,
shall be determined from a copy of a deed presented by the applicant if there
is any question on the part of the city as to the legal description or
ownership;
         (c)   Zoning district of the property for which the permit is to be
obtained;
         (d)   Statement of the use which will be made of the property and of
proposed modification to the property or structures located thereon;
         (e)   The application shall be accompanied by maps and plans as
specified in §
155.045. The maps and plans shall become a part of the application; and
         (f)   The applicant shall attest to the accuracy of all information
given on or accompanying the application.
   (D)   Processing.
      (1)   The application, accompanying information and the nonrefundable
filing fee shall be submitted after consultation with the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for
completeness and for compliance with this chapter. Should additional
information or modification to the application be necessary for the application
to be complete, the Zoning Administrator will advise the applicant.
      (3)   Should the application be incomplete or in obvious violation of
this chapter, or should the applicant refuse to make necessary modifications to
bring the application into compliance, the Zoning Administrator shall deny the
application and provide the applicant with a written statement as to the reason
or reasons for the denial. Upon the denial, the applicant may appeal the denial
to the Commission in writing, specifying reasons therefor and describing the
specific relief the applicant is requesting.
      (4)   Upon acceptance and filing of an application, the following actions
shall be taken.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a list, using the current
tax appraisal map and the current city tax roll, of the owners of all tracts of
property in the city that are within 200 feet of any portion of the property
for which the permit is requested.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine the date of the next
meeting of the Commission, not less than three full weeks and not more than
seven full weeks from the date the application is accepted as complete, place
the request on the agenda of the Commission, and schedule a public hearing
thereon.
         (c)   The City Clerk shall send a written notice to the applicant and
to each of the property owners on the list prepared under division (a) above,
stating the purpose of the proposed permit; street address of the property for
which the permit is requested; date, time and place of the public hearing
before the Commission; and that comment about the request must be made in
writing or verbally before the Commission. The notification letters will be
mailed at least 11 days before the meeting of the Commission.
         (d)   The agenda of the Commission which includes the public hearing
shall be posted in accordance with the State Open Meetings Act (Tex. Gov’t
Code, Ch. 551).
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall present the following information to
the Commission at the meeting before the public hearing begins:
         (a)   Any pertinent information bearing on the application that may
not be evident from the application;
         (b)   Impact of approval of the request upon utility services, streets
and parking, and upon the local area; and
         (c)   Any recommendations for conditions, modifications or any
stipulations should the request be approved.
      (6)   Commission action:
         (a)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing pertaining to the
application and shall receive written or verbal comments;
         (b)   The Commission may establish reasonable conditions of approval
to be included in the permit, such as:
            1.   Requirements for special yards, lot sizes, open spaces,
buffers, fences, walls or screening;
            2.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of landscaping
or erosion control measures;
            3.   Requirements for street improvements and dedications;
            4.   Control of vehicular access, parking and traffic circulation;
            5.   Limits on signage;
            6.   Limits on hours or other characteristics of operation;
            7.   Establishment of development schedules or time limits for
completion or for the duration of the permit; and
            8.   Any other conditions the Commission may deem necessary to
ensure compatibility with surrounding uses and to preserve the public health,
safety and general welfare.
         (c)   A specific use permit may be denied if:
            1.   The proposed use does not conform with the applicable
regulations and standards established in this chapter;
            2.   The proposed use fails to conform with the objectives and the
purpose of the zoning district where it is located;
            3.   The proposed use potentially creates greater unfavorable
effects or impacts on other existing uses on abutting sites than those which
reasonably may result from the use of the site by a use allowed by right;
            4.   A written protest is received from the owners of at least 50%
of the land area within 200 feet of the subject property; or
            5.   The proposed use is contrary to the public health, safety or
general welfare.
         (d)   The Commission shall, by majority vote, approve, approve with
modifications and/or conditions or deny the application. Specific use permits
that are granted shall remain in effect for the duration of the authorized use
on the premises for which they are granted unless an expiration date or time
limit is established by the Commission at the time of approval in accordance
with division (D)(6)(b) above;
         (e)   Any person aggrieved by the Commission’s denial, approval or
condition of approval of any application, may submit in writing a request for
an appeal to City Council. The request must be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator within ten calendar days of the Commission’s action. The appeal
shall be forwarded to the Council together with a record of the Commission
decision; and
         (f)   The same public hearing notice requirements will apply to the
appeal as applied to the application before the Commission. The Council shall
consider an appeal of the Commission’s decision at a public hearing scheduled
at the earliest regular Council meeting for which all notification requirements
can be met after the appeal is submitted. The Council shall uphold, modify or
reverse the decision of the Commission.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-20-1, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 155.041 ZONING CHANGE.
   (A)   Action to rezone one or more tracts of land from one or more zoning
districts to another zoning district or districts may be initiated by any
landowner or group of landowners, by the Commission, or by the Council.
      (1)   Any individual landowner seeking to change the zoning of a tract to
another zoning district shall make application with the Zoning Administrator as
stipulated below.
      (2)   Any group of landowners jointly seeking rezoning of their
contiguous tracts (or tracts separated only by a public right-of-way) to the
same zoning district shall select an agent to act in their behalf and make
application with the Zoning Administrator as stipulated below. The applicants
will be required to make a deposit in the amount of the normal application fee
pending the Council’s decision on initiating the application.
      (3)   Any group of landowners seeking to change the zoning of tracts or
portions of tracts into various zoning districts must apply for the rezoning as
individuals.
      (4)   The Commission may initiate a change in zoning. The Commission will
provide the Zoning Administrator with sufficient instructions to initiate the
application, including accurate demonstration of the area for which rezoning is
desired and the zoning district or districts requested.
      (5)   The Council may initiate a change in zoning. The Council shall
provide the Zoning Administrator with sufficient instructions to initiate the
application including accurate determination of the area for which rezoning is
desired, and the zoning district or districts requested.
   (B)   Application:
      (1)   The application for a rezoning request must be made by the
titleholders, their attorney in fact, an agent as in division (A)(2) above or
the Commission or the Council;
      (2)   An application for a rezoning shall be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator, and shall contain the following minimum information:
         (a)   Name, mailing address and contact telephone number of the
property owners, their attorney in fact or an agent as in division (A)(2)
above;
         (b)   Legal description and street or mailing address, if any, of the
property for which the rezoning is requested. A copy of the deed to the
property, with recording data, and a copy of any power of attorney must be
included as a part of the application;
         (c)   The application must contain the information specified in §
155.045 below;
         (d)   Current zoning district or districts;
         (e)   Requested zoning district or districts. The district or the
limits of various districts requested shall be shown on the accompanying maps
and plans;
         (f)   The applicant shall attest to the accuracy of all information
given on or accompanying the application;
         (g)   A landowner is encouraged to consult with the Zoning
Administrator before submitting and application; and
         (h)   An application must be accompanied by a nonrefundable filing fee
in the amount set by the Council.
   (C)   Processing:
      (1)   Upon application by landowner, the Zoning Administrator will review
the application for completeness and compliance with this chapter. Should
additional information or modification to the application be necessary, the
Zoning Administrator will advise the applicant.
      (2)   Upon application by Council:
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall have a map prepared to an
appropriate scale which shall show the owner of each tract within the area to
be rezoned as well as the current and the proposed zoning district or districts
of each tract; and
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall verify that the map is correct
with respect to ownership and zoning district requested or with the Mayor and/
or Commission Chairperson, as appropriate, as to delineation of the existing
and proposed zoning districts shown thereon.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator, upon determining that an application is
complete, shall then initiate the following actions:
         (a)   Prepare a list, using a current tax appraisal map and the
current city tax roll, of all owners of any property in the city that is within
the area to be considered for rezoning and within 200 feet of the area;
         (b)   Determine the date of the next meeting of the Commission, not
less than three full weeks and not more than seven full weeks from the date of
the application, and place the request on the agenda of the Commission and
schedule a public hearing thereon;
         (c)   Mail a letter to each of the owners of property within the area
proposed for rezoning and within 200 feet thereof, stating the purpose of the
request; street address of the property for which rezoning is requested; date,
time and place of the public hearing before the Commission; and that comment
about the request must be made in writing or verbally before the Commission.
The letters shall be sent at least 11 days before the date of the public
hearing. If a joint public hearing by the Council and the Commission is
scheduled on the request, the letters shall state that fact;
         (d)   Post the Commission agenda in a public location at City Hall in
accordance with the State Open Meetings Act (Tex. Gov’t Code, Ch. 551); and
         (e)   At least 11 days before the hearing date, a legible sign shall
be placed at the front or in the front yard of the property, adjacent to a
street. The sign shall read: “Zoning change requested for this property. For
more information call City Hall” and shall list the telephone number. The
applicant requesting the change shall authorize the city to install this sign
as part of the rezoning application. It is unlawful for a person to
intentionally or knowingly damage, remove, or deface any such sign during the
time between initial placement and the city’s final decision on the
application. However, the placement, erection or continued maintenance of the
sign shall not be deemed a condition necessary for the holding of any public
hearing or the granting or denial of any zoning change.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a statement for presentation
at the public hearing before the Commission. The statement shall contain as a
minimum:
         (a)   Any information bearing upon the request that may not be evident
from the application; and
         (b)   Impact of approval of the zoning change upon utility service,
drainage, streets, parking, police protection and fire protection in the local
area.
      (5)   Commission action:
         (a)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing pertaining to the
rezoning request and shall receive comment in writing or verbally. If notice of
a joint public hearing by the Commission and Council has been given, the public
hearing may be conducted jointly by the Commission and Council;
         (b)   The Commission shall consider the staff statement; and
         (c)   The Commission shall recommend to the Council that the rezoning
request should be approved, approved with modification or denied.
      (6)   Council action:
         (a)   The City Clerk shall publish a notice in a local newspaper of a
public hearing by the Council on the request at least 16 days before the
hearing date. The notice shall state the date, time, and place of the public
hearing, the street address of the property, the purpose of the request, and
that comments about the request can be made in writing or verbally before the
Council. If a joint public hearing by the Council and Commission is scheduled
on the request, the notice shall state that fact.
         (b)   The Council shall hold a public hearing to receive comments in
writing or verbally, shall consider the staff statement, shall review the
minutes of the Commission meeting concerning such request (if the public
hearing is not a joint hearing with the Commission), and shall consider the
recommendation of the Commission. If notice of a joint public hearing by the
Commission and Council has been given, the public hearing may be conducted
jointly by the Commission and Council;
         (c)   The Council shall approve, approve with modification or deny the
request. The Council will endeavor to make a decision on the request within 60
days of the date public hearing. The Council must make a decision on the
request within 90 days of the public hearing date, or the City Clerk will be
required to publish notice of another public hearing on the request and the
Council will be required to conduct another public hearing on the request
before the Council makes a decision on the request;
         (d)   If the Council is serving as the Commission, the Council may not
adopt the proposed change until the thirty-first day after the date the notices
of the public hearing before the Commission are sent under division (C)(3)(c)
above.
         (e)   A majority vote of the Council members present will be
sufficient to approve a request unless a proposed change in zoning is protested
in written form and signed by the owners of at least 20% of either the area of
the lots or land covered by the proposed change, or the area of the lots or
land immediately adjoining the area covered by the proposed change and
extending 200 feet from that area; and
         (f)   A written protest must be on a form obtained from the city and
entitled “written protest of proposed zoning change” or in a letter or petition
containing the same information as required on the form, and must be completed,
signed and filed no later than two working days prior to the date of the
Council public hearing. Protests totaling at least 20% of either the area of
the lots or land covered by the proposed change, or the area of the lots or
land immediately adjoining the area covered by the proposed change and
extending 200 feet from that area, shall require the proposed change to
receive, in order to take effect, the affirmative vote of at least three-
fourths of all members of the City Council. A person who wishes to withdraw a
signature from a written protest must submit a signed, written request for the
withdrawal to the City Clerk by the deadline for submitting a written protest
for the withdrawal to be effective.
      (7)   Subsequent actions:
         (a)   Should there be any objection to the Council action, the
objecting parties must file an appropriate petition within ten days to a court
of competent jurisdiction and must submit a copy of the petition to the Zoning
Administrator before the petition is filed;
         (b)   If notice has not been received of an appeal within ten full
days of the Council action, the City Clerk shall have notice of the enactment
of the ordinance published in a local newspaper; and
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the official zoning map
amended as provided in §
155.004(H) above.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-20-1, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 155.042 VARIANCES.
   (A)   A variance is a grant of relief from a specific requirement of this
chapter, where strict enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. The
Board of Adjustment may grant a variance upon making findings that the evidence
submitted by the applicant demonstrates that all of the following conditions
exist:
      (1)   The variance arises from the condition that is unique to the
property in question, where the condition was not created by an action of the
property owner, occupant or applicant;
      (2)   The particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
condition within or adjacent to the property would result in a practical
difficulty or unnecessary hardship or inequity upon or for the owner or
occupant, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the provision in
question were literally enforced;
      (3)   The request for a variance is not based exclusively upon a desire
of the owner or occupant for increased financial gain from the use of the
property, or to reduce a personal financial hardship;
      (4)   The variance will not alter the essential character of the zoning
district within which the property is located, and is in harmony with the
intent and purposes of this chapter;
      (5)   The granting of the variance will not adversely affect the public
health or safety, and will not substantially or permanently interfere with the
appropriate use of adjacent conforming property in the same zoning district;
and
      (6)   The degree of variance requested is the minimum amount necessary to
allow a reasonable use of the property.
   (B)   Variances may be granted only in the following instances:
      (1)   To vary the applicable lot area, lot width or frontage, and lot
depth requirements, provided that the reduction shall not exceed 30% of the
standard minimum for the zoning district within which the tract is located;
      (2)   To vary the minimum building setback requirements, lot coverage or
maximum permitted building height;
      (3)   To vary the regulations pertaining to required off-street parking
or loading;
      (4)   To vary the requirements pertaining to the restoration of damaged
or destroyed nonconforming buildings;
      (5)   To vary the standards for manufactured homes;
      (6)   To vary the standards for sexually-oriented businesses; and
      (7)   To vary the standards for wireless telecommunication facilities.
   (C)   Procedures:
      (1)   Application.
         (a)   The application for a variance must be made by the property
owner or his or her authorized agent.
         (b)   The application must contain the information described in §
155.045.
         (c)   The application will include the variance requested and the
reason as to why adhering to this chapter will constitute an exceptional
difficulty or hardship upon the owner of the property.
      (2)   Processing.
         (a)   After consultation with the Zoning Administrator, the
application, accompanying information and the nonrefundable filing fee shall be
submitted.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for
completeness and for compliance with this chapter. Should additional
information or modification to the application be necessary to provide
compliance, the Zoning Administrator will advise the applicant.
         (c)   Upon completion of review of the application and finding the
application to be complete, the following actions shall be taken:
            1.   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a list, using the
current tax appraisal map and the current city tax roll, of all owners of any
portion of a tract within the city that is within 200 feet of any portion of
the property for which the variance is requested;
            2.   The Zoning Administrator shall determine the date of the next
meeting of the Board, not less than three full weeks and not more than seven
full weeks from the date of the application, place the request on the agenda of
the Board and schedule a public hearing;
            3.   The City Clerk shall send a letter to each of the property
owners within 200 feet, and to the applicant, stating the purpose of the
request; street address of the property for which a variance is requested;
date, time and place of the public hearing before the Board; and that comment
about the request must be made in writing or verbally before the Board. The
notification letters shall be deposited, postage prepaid, in the United States
mail at least 11 days before the hearing date;
            4.   The City Clerk will publish notice in a local newspaper of a
public hearing by the Board on the request. This notice must appear at least 11
days prior to the meeting date. The notice shall contain date, time and place
of the public hearing; street address of the property for which the variance is
requested; purpose of the request; and a statement that any comment about the
request must be made in writing or verbally before the Board; and
            5.   The agenda of the Board which includes the public hearings
shall be posted in a public location at City Hall in accordance with the State
Open Meetings Act (Tex. Gov’t Code, Ch. 551).
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a statement for
presentation at the public hearing before the Board. The statement shall
contain as a minimum:
            1.   Any pertinent information bearing upon the application that
may not be evident from the application;
            2.   Whether the request complies with divisions (C)(2)(a) and (b)
above, and impact of approval of the request upon utility service, streets and
parking in the local area; and
            3.   Any recommendations for modifications or any stipulations
should the request be approved.
         (e)   The Board, upon completion of the public hearing and after
deliberation, shall make a determination for approval, approval with
modifications, any stipulations upon approval, or for denial.
         (f)   The Board may condition approval of a variance upon compliance
with reasonable stipulations including but not limited to provisions for
increased open space, vehicular access, off-street parking and loading,
landscaping, screening, signage, curbing, sidewalks, hours of operation and/or
a temporary time ending on a date after which the variance expires and is no
longer valid. Failure to meet the stipulations shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
         (g)   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Board may appeal that
action as provided in §
155.039.
         (h)   Should the request be denied or should the applicant reject any
modifications or stipulations attached to the approval of the request, another
request for the same or a similar variance for the same property or a portion
of the same property may not be submitted for a full six months. Further, if a
granted variance is not accepted and used within 12 full months of approval,
the variance becomes automatically void.
         (i)   No application for a variance may be submitted when some other
zoning action concerning the subject tract is pending. However, a request for a
zoning variance may be submitted concurrently with a subdivision plat.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-20-01, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 155.043 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of a special exception is to authorize a use that would
not be permissible generally or without restriction throughout a zoning
district but which, if controlled as to area, location, relation to the
neighborhood and other restrictions as may be deemed appropriate in each case,
would be consistent with the overall intent of this chapter and compatible with
surrounding land uses and the character of the neighborhood in which the use is
proposed.
   (B)   Special exceptions may be granted by the Board of Adjustment for
development only within the city limits, and only for the following:
      (1)   A change from one nonconforming use to another, provided no
structural alterations are made, and upon finding that the proposed
nonconforming use is not more nonconforming in the district than the previously
existing nonconforming use; and
      (2)   To permit the resumption of a nonconforming use that has been
discontinued for a period exceeding six consecutive months, subject to
compliance with all applicable building and fire codes.
   (C)   Procedures:
      (1)   Application.
         (a)   The application for a special exception must be made by the
property owner or his or her authorized agent.
         (b)   The application must contain the information described in §
155.045 below.
         (c)   The application will include the special exception requested and
the reason as to why adhering to this chapter will constitute an exceptional
difficulty or hardship upon the owner of the property.
      (2)   Processing.
         (a)   After consultation with the Zoning Administrator, the
application, accompanying information and the nonrefundable filing fee shall be
submitted
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for
completeness and for compliance with this chapter. Should additional
information or modification to the application be necessary to provide
compliance, the Zoning Administrator will advise the applicant.
         (c)   Upon completion of review of the application and finding the
application to be correct, the following actions shall be initiated:
            1.   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a list, using the
current tax appraisal map and the current city tax roll, of all owners of any
portion of a tract in the city that is within 200 feet of any portion of the
property for which the special exception is requested.
            2.   The Zoning Administrator shall determine the date of the next
meeting of the Board, not less than three full weeks and not more than seven
full weeks from the date of the application, place the request on the agenda of
the Board, and schedule a public hearing.
            3.   The City Clerk shall send a letter to each of the property
owners within 200 feet, and to the applicant, stating the purpose of the
request; street address of the property for which a special exception is
requested; date, time and place of the public hearing before the Board; and
that comment about the request must be made in writing or verbally before the
Board. The notification letters shall be mailed at least 11 days before the
hearing date.
            4.   The City Clerk will publish notice in a local newspaper of a
public hearing by the Board on the request. This notice shall appear at least
11 days prior to the meeting date. The notice shall contain date, time and
place of the public hearing; street address of the property for which the
special exception is requested; purpose of the request; and a statement that
any comment about the request must be made in writing or verbally before the
Board.
            5.   The agenda of the Board which includes the public hearings
shall be posted in a public location at City Hall in accordance with the State
Open Meetings Act (Tex. Gov’t Code, Ch. 551).
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a statement for
presentation at the public hearing before the Board. The statement shall
contain as a minimum:
            1.   Any pertinent information bearing upon the application that
may not be evident from the application;
            2.   Whether the request complies with divisions (C)(2)(a) and (b)
above, and impact of approval of the request upon utility service, streets and
parking in the local area; and
            3.   Any recommendations for modifications or any stipulations
should the request be approved.
         (e)   The Board, upon completion of the public hearing and after
deliberation, shall make a determination for approval, approval with
modifications, any stipulations upon approval or for denial.
         (f)   The Board may condition approval of a special exception upon
compliance with reasonable stipulations including but not limited to provisions
for increased open space, vehicular access, off-street parking and loading,
landscaping, screening, signage, curbing, sidewalks, hours of operation and/or
a temporary time ending on a date after which the special exception expires and
is no longer valid. Failure to meet the stipulations shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
         (g)   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Board may appeal the
action as provided in §
155.039 above.
         (h)   Should the request be denied or should the applicant reject any
modifications or stipulations attached to the approval of the request, another
request for the same or a similar special exception for the same property or a
portion of the same property may not be submitted for a full six months.
Further, if a granted special exception is not accepted and used within 12 full
months of approval, the special exception becomes automatically void.
         (i)   No application for a special exception may be submitted when
some other zoning action concerning the subject tract is pending. However, a
request for a zoning special exception may be submitted concurrently with a
subdivision plat.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-20-1, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 155.044 TIMING AND EFFECT OF ZONING AFTER ANNEXATION.
   (A)   As soon as practical following annexation, but in no event more than
180 calendar days thereafter, the Zoning Administrator shall, on the
Administrator's own or upon application by property owners of the annexed area,
initiate proceedings to establish appropriate zoning on the newly annexed
territory.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall commence public notification and
other standard procedures for zoning amendments as required by law.
      (2)   The proceedings to establish zoning may be undertaken concurrently
with annexation procedures (i.e., notices and public hearings).
      (3)   The zoning approval and formal adoption of the ordinance
establishing zoning must occur, however, after the annexation takes effect, and
as a separate and distinct action by the City Council.
      (4)   From the time an annexation takes effect until action is completed
to zone the land, the interim zoning of the land shall be considered to be
Mixed Use (MU) District, and all zoning and development regulations of the MU
zoning district shall be adhered to with respect to development and use of the
land that has been newly annexed.
   (B)   The initial zoning of a land parcel, whether it is interim in nature,
by initiation of the landowner or by initiation of the city, must meet the
requirements for notification and public hearings as required by law.
   (C)   The owner of land to be annexed may submit an application for zoning
the property simultaneously with submission of a petition for annexation, but
an annexation petition may not be conditioned upon the approval of any
particular zoning classification.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.045 APPLICATION STANDARDS.
   An application for a zoning change, variance, special exception, special use
permit, district overlay or any other action regarding zoning shall contain the
minimum requirements of this section and shall comply with the terms herein.
   (A)   The application must be made by the title holders, their attorney-in-
fact or a duly authorized agent.
   (B)   The application must contain the following minimum information:
      (1)   Name, mailing address and contact telephone number of the property
owners, attorney-in-fact or agent;
      (2)   Legal description and street or mailing address, if any, of the
property involved. A copy of the deed to the property, with recording data, and
a copy of any power of attorney, or other information as will allow the Zoning
Administrator to verify title to the property and the authority of any
attorney-in-fact;
      (3)   The application shall be accompanied by the maps and plans as will
enable the Zoning Administrator, the Board and Commission to make
determinations as may be necessary under the terms of this chapter;
      (4)   A reference to the current zoning district or districts in which
the property is situated;
      (5)   Information concerning the change or action requested, including
appropriate reference to requested zoning district or districts;
      (6)   A statement that the information contained in the application is,
within the knowledge of the applicant, true and correct;
      (7)   The application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee in an
amount to be set by the City Council, by resolution, from time to time; and
      (8)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for
completeness with this subchapter. Within ten business days, written notice of
the necessary documents or other information that the applicant failed to
provide with the application shall be provided to the owner/applicant (as
designated on the application form) for compliance. The written notice shall
include the date the application will expire if the necessary documents or
other information is not provided. Applications will expire within 45 days of
the date the application is delivered to the city or sent to the city by
certified mail if the applicant fails to provide the specified documents or
other information required in the written notice to the applicant.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 155.060 COMPATIBILITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The compatibility standards of this section are intended to
preserve and protect low-density residential uses and neighborhoods by ensuring
that new development and redevelopment is compatible with the character of the
area in which it is located.
   (B)   Applicability. The compatibility standards in this section shall apply
to all multi-family residential and all nonresidential development when it
occurs on a lot:
      (1)   Within 150 feet of the lot line of any property zoned R-1, R-1A or
R-2;
      (2)   Across the street from or adjacent to a lot containing a single-
family or duplex use; or
      (3)   Within 150 feet of the boundary of an area designated as a scenic
corridor under §
150.025.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from compliance with the
compatibility standards of this section:
      (1)   Single-family or duplex uses;
      (2)   Multi-family development unless the development exceeds a gross
density of six units per acre or a height of 35 feet;
      (3)   Structural alteration of an existing building when the alteration
does not increase the gross square footage or height of the building; and
      (4)   A change in use that does not increase the off-street parking
requirements over and above the existing use.
   (D)   Buffer and screening standards.
      (1)   Nonresidential and multi-family residential development, including
off-street parking areas associated with the development, shall be screened
from view of adjacent single-family and duplex uses and R 1, R-1A or R-2 zoned
property.
      (2)   The visual screening shall be accomplished through the use of
opaque fences or landscaping along the adjacent lot line.
      (3)   Mechanical equipment, outdoor storage areas and refuse collection
areas shall be completely shielded from view of adjacent single-family and
duplex uses, scenic corridors designated under §
150.025, and R-1, R-1A or R-2 zoned property by an opaque fence or wall that is
at least one foot taller than the site feature being screened from view,
provided this shall not be interpreted as requiring screening fences or walls
to be taller than ten feet.
      (4)   Fences, walls and buffers must comply with all other requirements
of ordinances of the city.
   (E)   Additional site design standards. The following additional site design
standards shall apply to development that is subject to the compatibility
standards of this section:
      (1)   Public and commercial recreation uses. Public and commercial
swimming pools, tennis courts, ballfields, tubing-related businesses and other
intensive public or commercial recreational uses that involve outdoor activity
shall be set back at least 100 feet from the lot line of property that is zoned
R-1, R-1A or R-2, or that contains a single-family, duplex or multi-family use,
or that is designated as a scenic corridor under §
150.025. For tubing-related businesses, this setback shall also apply to
customer parking and vehicle/equipment storage areas, tubing-related
businesses, including customer parking and vehicle/equipment storage areas,
shall also be screened from view by an opaque fence or wall with a minimum
height of eight feet. For a recreational use other than a tubing-related
business, this setback standard shall be reduced to a minimum of 50 feet if the
recreational use is screened from view by an opaque fence or wall with a
minimum height of eight feet; and
      (2)   Dumpsters and solid waste receptacles. Dumpsters and solid waste
receptacles shall be set back at least 20 feet from the lot line of property
that is zoned R-1, R-1A or R-2, that contains a single-family or duplex use, or
that is designated as a scenic corridor under §
150.025. Dumpsters and receptacles shall be completely screened from view of
adjacent single-family and duplex uses, scenic corridors designated under §
150.025 and R-zoned property by an opaque fence or wall that is at least one
foot taller than the dumpster or solid waste receptacle.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-20-1, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2016-
08-02, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 155.061 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The operational performance standards of this subchapter are
intended to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city
by regulating potential nuisance features associated with certain land uses.
   (B)   Applicability. The operational performance standards of this
subchapter shall apply to all uses, buildings and structures within the city
unless otherwise specifically indicated.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following are exempt from the operational performance
standards of this subchapter:
      (1)   Temporary construction, excavation and grading associated with
development for which applicable permits have been issued and with the
installation of streets or utilities; and
      (2)   Demolition activities that are necessary and incidental to
permitted development on the same lot, on another of several lots being
developed at the same time or in the public right-of-way or easement.
   (D)   Standards. Under this subchapter, the following standards shall apply:
      (1)   Noise. Sites shall be laid out and uses shall be operated to
prevent noise from becoming a nuisance to adjacent single-family and duplex
uses; for tubing-related businesses, noise on the site must not exceed 60 db at
any boundary of the site;
      (2)   Vibration. All uses shall be operated so that ground vibration is
not perceptible outside the lot lines of the site on which the use is located;
      (3)   Fire and explosive hazards. Underground storage tanks for flammable
liquids and gasses shall be located at least 50 feet from the lot line of lots
zoned R or that contain a single-family or duplex use; aboveground tanks shall
be set back at least 100 feet from the lot lines, unless the Board of
Adjustment determines, based on information provided by the applicant, that a
50-foot setback will ensure compliance with all applicable state standards. The
storage tank setback requirements of this division (D)(3) shall not apply to
tanks that are necessary to single-family or duplex units;
      (4)   Light and glare. The following operational performance standards
shall apply:
         (a)   All exterior lighting shall be hooded or otherwise shielded so
that the light source is not directly visible from property that is zoned R-1,
R-1A or R-2, or that contains a single-family or duplex use;
         (b)   All lighting shall be shielded so that substantially all emitted
light falls within the property line of the property from which the light
emanates;
         (c)   All exterior building floodlights shall be shielded so that all
emitted light falls upon the property from which the light emanates; and
         (d)   No illumination shall produce direct, incident or reflected
light that interferes with the safe movement of motor vehicles on public
streets. The types of lighting that shall be prohibited by this division shall
include but not be limited to any light that may be confused with or construed
as a traffic control device and any animated, flashing or changing intensity
lights, except for temporary holiday displays.
   (5)   Electromagnetic interference. No operations or activities shall be
conducted that cause electrical disturbances to be transmitted across lot
lines.
   (6)   Hours of operation. Tubing-related businesses shall not operate
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (7)   Designation of contact person. Each tubing-related business shall file
with the city a written designation of a contact person responsible for
ensuring compliance by the business with this chapter, all other ordinances of
the city, and all conditions of the business's specific use permit. The
designation will be on a form provided by the city. A business that changes the
designation shall notify the city immediately, and shall file a revised
designation form no later than the first business day after the change is made.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2016-08-02, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 155.062 RESIDENTIAL DESIGN MANUFACTURED HOUSING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Scope. Residential design manufactured housing units shall be subject
to the standards of this subchapter.
   (B)   Roof. Under this subchapter, a roof must be predominantly double
pitched and have a minimum vertical rise of two and one-fifth inches for every
12 inches of horizontal run. The roof must be covered with material that is
commonly used on site-built single-family dwellings within the city, including
but not limited to wood, asphalt composition shingles or fiberglass, and
excluding corrugated aluminum, corrugated fiberglass or corrugated metal. The
roof shall have a minimum cave projection and roof overhang of eight inches.
   (C)   Siding. Under this subchapter, exterior siding shall be of a material
commonly used on site-built single-family dwellings within the city which
material does not have a high-gloss finish and which may include wood,
composition, simulated wood, clapboards, conventional vinyl or metal siding,
brick, stucco or similar materials, but excluding smooth, ribbed or corrugated
metal or plastic panels. Siding material shall extend below the top of the
exterior of the foundation or curtain wall, or the joint between siding and
enclosure wall shall be flashed in accordance with local building codes.
   (D)   Transport equipment. Under this subchapter, all mobile home running
gear, tongues, axles and wheels must be removed at the time of installation of
the home on the lot.
   (E)   Finished floor elevation. Under this subchapter, the finished floor
elevation of the residential design manufactured housing unit shall be a
maximum of 24 inches above the exterior finished grade of the lot on which it
is located, is measured at the main entrance into the dwelling.
   (F)   Attached additions. Under this subchapter, any attached addition to a
residential design manufactured housing unit shall comply with building code
requirements. All of the design standards of this section shall apply to all
additions.
   (G)   Garages. Detached garages that are constructed on the same lot as a
residential design manufactured housing unit shall comply with the Building
Code and with all of the design standards of this section.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.075 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Districts established.
      (1)   In order to implement the city comprehensive plan and promote the
purposes of this chapter, the following districts are established:
District Name Map Symbol
District Name                             Map Symbol
Single-Family Residential                 R-1
One- and Two-Family Residential           R-1A
Manufactured Home District                R-2
Multi-Family Residential (Low Density)    R-3
Multi-Family Residential (Medium Density) R-4
Mixed Use                                 MU
Commercial                                C-1
Heavy Commercial                          C-2
Industrial                                I
 
      (2)   Districts may be referred to throughout this chapter by their map
symbol names.
   (B)   Compliance with district standards. No building or structure shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or altered for use nor shall any
building, structure or land be used or changed in a way so that it does not
comply with all of the district regulations established by this chapter for the
district in which the building or structure or land is located.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.076 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-1 Single-Family Residential District is intended for
development of detached, single-family residences and customary accessory uses
on lots of at least one-half acre in size.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See the use table in §
155.096 for permitted and specific uses.
      (1)   Residential uses.
         (a)   Single-family, detached dwelling; and
         (b)   Accessory uses as authorized in §
155.098.
      (2)   Public or civic uses.
         (a)   Church or place of worship, subject to the supplementary
standards of §
155.097(C)(1);
         (b)   Family home day care, subject to the supplementary standards of
§
155.097(3);
         (c)   Parks and recreation, subject to the supplementary standards of
§
155.097(H);
         (d)   Group home;
         (e)   Safety services;
         (f)   School, subject to the supplementary standards of §
155.097(I); and
         (g)   Utilities, limited.
      (3)   Retail, service and office uses. Retail, service and office uses
shall be limited to home occupations, subject to the supplementary standards of
§
155.097(F).
   (C)   Property development standards. Each site in the R-1 Residential
District shall be subject to the following property development standards:
      (1)   Lot size. The minimum lot size for single-family detached dwelling
units shall be 21,780 square feet (one-half acre);
      (2)   Front setback. The minimum front setback for all uses in the R-
1 District shall be 25 feet;
      (3)   Rear setback. The minimum rear setback for all uses in the R-
1 District other than in-ground swimming pools shall be 20 feet; for in-ground
swimming pools, the rear setback shall be eight feet;
      (4)   Interior side setback. The minimum interior side setback for all
uses in the R-1 District shall be six feet;
      (5)   Street side setback. The minimum street side setback for all uses
in the R-1 District shall be ten feet, unless the side street is a major
thoroughfare, in which case the minimum street side setback shall be 20 feet;
      (6)   Height. The maximum height for all uses in the R-1 District shall
be 28.5 feet or two and one-half stories;
      (7)   Lot coverage. The maximum impervious cover for all uses in the R-
1 District shall be 20% of the lot area; and
      (8)   Landscaping. A minimum of two trees and eight shrubs shall be
preserved (if existing) or planted, and maintained for all new development.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-06, passed 8-6-2013; Ord. 2013-08-
20-1, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2022-10-06, passed 10-6-2022)
§ 155.077 R-1A ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-1A One- and Two-Family Residential District is intended
for development of single-family residences as well as low density two-family
duplex units, at a maximum gross density of six dwelling units per acre.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See the use table in §
155.096 for permitted and specific uses.
      (1)   Residential uses. Unless expressly stated otherwise, there shall be
only one single-family dwelling unit per lot:
         (a)   Single-family, detached;
         (b)   Duplex; and
         (c)   Accessory uses as authorized in §
155.098 below.
      (2)   Public and civic uses. Public and civic uses shall include the
following:
         (a)   Church or place of worship, subject to the supplementary
standards of §
155.097(C)(1) below;
         (b)   Family home day care, subject to the supplementary standards of
§
155.097(C)(3) below;
         (c)   Parks and recreation, subject to the supplementary standards of
§
155.097(H) below;
         (d)   Group home;
         (e)   Safety services;
         (f)   School, subject to the supplementary standards of §
155.097(I) below; and
         (g)   Utilities, limited.
      (3)   Retail, service and office uses. Retail, service and office uses
shall be limited to home occupations, subject to the supplementary standards of
§
155.097(F) below.
   (C)   Property development standards. Each site in the R-1A district shall
be subject to the following property development standards:
      (1)   Lot size.
         (a)   Single-family detached. The minimum lot size for single-family
detached dwelling units shall be 7,300 square feet.
         (b)   Duplex. The minimum lot size for duplex dwellings shall be
11,000 square feet, subject to an overall gross density not to exceed six units
per acre.
      (2)   Front setback. The minimum front setback for all uses in the R-1A
district shall be 25 feet, subject to compatibility standards of §
155.060 above.
      (3)   Rear setback. The minimum rear setback for all uses in the R-1A
district, other than in-ground swimming pools, shall be 20 feet; for in-ground
swimming pools, the rear setback shall be eight feet.
      (4)   Interior side setback. The minimum interior side setback for all
uses in the R-1A district shall be six feet.
      (5)   Street side setback. The minimum street side setback for all uses
in the R-1A district shall be ten feet, unless the side street is a major
thoroughfare, in which case the minimum street side setback shall be 20 feet.
      (6)   Height. The maximum height for all uses in the R-1A district shall
be 28.5 feet or two and one-half stories.
      (7)   Lot coverage. Maximum impervious cover for all uses in the R-1A
district shall be 20% of the lot area.
      (8)   Landscaping. A minimum of two trees and eight shrubs shall be
preserved (if existing) or planted, and maintained for all new development.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-06, passed 8-6-2013; Ord. 2013-08-
20-1, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2022-10-06, passed 10-6-2022)
§ 155.078 R-2 MANUFACTURED HOME DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-2 Manufactured Home District is established to provide
for the orderly location and management of low-density manufactured home
residences on individual lots.
      (1)   Manufactured homes are residential uses and should be located in
areas where services and amenities are available such as those found in areas
comprised of site-built houses.
      (2)   Development in this district shall not exceed a maximum gross
density of six dwelling units per acre.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See the use table in §
155.096 for permitted and specific uses.
      (1)   Residential uses. Unless expressly stated otherwise, there shall be
only one single-family dwelling unit per lot:
         (a)   Single-family, detached;
         (b)   Manufactured home on an individual lot; and
         (c)   Accessory uses as authorized in §
155.098.
      (2)   Public and civic uses. Public and civic uses shall include the
following:
         (a)   Church or place of worship, subject to the supplementary
standards of §
155.097(C)(1);
         (b)   Family home day care, subject to the supplementary standards of
§
155.097(C)(3);
         (c)   Parks and recreation, subject to the supplementary standards of
§
155.097(H);
         (d)   Group home;
         (e)   Safety services;
         (f)   School, subject to the supplementary standards of §
155.097(I); and
         (g)   Utilities, limited.
      (3)   Retail, service and office uses. Retail, service and office uses
shall be limited to home occupations, subject to the supplementary standards of
§
155.097(F).
   (C)   Property development standards. Each site in the R-2 District shall be
subject to the following property development standards.
      (1)   Lot size. The minimum lot size for single-family dwelling units
(manufactured or site-built) shall be 7,300 square feet.
      (2)   Front setback. The minimum front setback for all uses in the R-
2 District shall be 25 feet, subject to compatibility standards of §
155.060.
      (3)   Rear setback. The minimum rear setback for all uses in the R-
2 District , other than in-ground swimming pools, shall be 20 feet; for in-
ground swimming pools, the rear setback shall be eight feet.
      (4)   Interior side setback. The minimum interior side setback for all
uses in the R-2 District shall be six feet.
      (5)   Street side setback. The minimum street side setback for all uses
in the R-1A district shall be ten feet, unless the side street is a major
thoroughfare, in which case the minimum street side setback shall be 20 feet.
      (6)   Height. The maximum height for all uses in the R-2 District shall
be 28.5 feet or two and one-half stories.
      (7)   Lot coverage. Maximum impervious cover for all uses in the R-
2 District shall be 30% of the lot area.
      (8)   Landscaping. A minimum of two trees and eight shrubs per lot shall
be preserved (if existing) or planted and maintained for all new development.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-06, passed 8-6-2013; Ord. 2013-08-
20-1, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2022-10-06, passed 10-6-2022)
§ 155.079 R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-3 Multi-Family Residential District is intended for
development of multiple-family apartment residences, as well as one- and two-
family residences, at a maximum gross density of six dwelling units per acre.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See the use table in §
155.096 for permitted and specific uses.
   (C)   Property development standards. Each site in the R-3 District shall be
subject to the following property development standards.
      (1)   Lot size.
         (a)   Single-family detached. The minimum lot size for single-family
detached dwelling units shall be 7,300 square feet.
         (b)   Duplex. The minimum lot size for duplex dwellings shall be
11,000 square feet, subject to an overall maximum gross density of six units
per acre.
         (c)   Multi-family residential. The minimum lot size for multi-family
residential development shall be 21,780 square feet for the first three
dwelling units, plus additional lot area for subsequent units so that the total
gross density does not exceed six dwelling units per acre.
      (2)   Front setback. The minimum front setback for all uses in the R-
3 District shall be 20 feet, subject to compatibility standards of §
155.060.
      (3)   Rear setback. The minimum rear setback for all uses in the R-
3 District, other than in-ground swimming pools, shall be 15 feet; for in-
ground swimming pools, the rear setback shall be eight feet.
      (4)   Interior side setback. The minimum interior side setback for all
uses in the R-3 District shall be six feet.
      (5)   Street side setback. The minimum street side setback for all uses
in the R-3 District shall be ten feet, unless the side street is a major
thoroughfare, in which case the minimum street side setback shall be 20 feet.
      (6)   Height. The maximum height for all uses in the R-3 District shall
be 28.5 feet or two and one-half stories.
      (7)   Lot coverage. Maximum impervious cover for all uses in the R-
3 District shall be 40% of the lot area.
      (8)   Landscaping.
         (a)   Single-family and duplex uses. A minimum of two trees and eight
shrubs shall be preserved (if existing) or planted, and maintained for all new
development.
         (b)   Multi-family. A minimum of 20% of the total developed lot area
shall be planted and maintained as landscape area.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-06, passed 8-6-2013; Ord. 2013-08-
20-1, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2022-10-06, passed 10-6-2022)
§ 155.080 R-4 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-4 Multi-Family Residential District is intended for
development of multiple-family residential units, as well as single-family
attached and detached dwellings and duplexes, at a maximum gross density of 12
dwelling units per acre.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See the use table in §
155.096 for permitted and specific uses.
   (C)   Property development standards. Each site in the R-4 District shall be
subject to the following property development standards:
      (1)   Lot size.
         (a)   Single-family detached. The minimum lot size for single-family
detached dwelling units shall be 4,500 square feet.
         (b)   Single-family attached. The minimum lot size for single-family
attached dwelling units (town homes) shall be 3,000 square feet for internal
lots and 4,000 square feet for corner lots.
         (c)   Duplex. The minimum lot size for duplex dwellings shall be 7,000
square feet, subject to a maximum gross density of 12 units per acre.
         (d)   Multi-family. The minimum lot size for multi-family residential
development shall be 10,890 square feet for the first three dwelling units,
plus additional lot area for subsequent units so that the total gross density
does not exceed 12 dwelling units per acre.
      (2)   Front setback. The minimum front setback for all uses in the R-
4 District shall be 20 feet, subject to compatibility standards of §
155.060.
      (3)   Rear setback. The minimum rear setback for all uses in the R-
4 District, other than in-ground swimming pools, shall be ten feet; for in-
ground swimming pools, the rear setback shall be eight feet.
      (4)   Interior side setback. The minimum interior side setback for all
uses in the R-4 District shall be six feet.
      (5)   Street side setback. The minimum street side setback for all uses
in the R-4 District shall be ten feet, unless the side street is a major
thoroughfare, in which case the minimum street side setback shall be 20 feet.
      (6)   Height. The maximum height for all uses in the R-4 District shall
be 35 feet or three stories.
      (7)   Lot coverage. Maximum impervious cover for all uses in the R-
4 District shall be 40% of the lot area.
      (8)   Landscaping.
         (a)   Single-family and duplex uses. A minimum of two trees and eight
shrubs shall be preserved (if existing) or planted, and maintained for all new
development.
         (b)   All other uses. A minimum of 20% of the total developed lot area
shall be planted and maintained as landscape area.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-06, passed 8-6-2013; Ord. 2013-08-
20-1, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2022-10-06, passed 10-6-2022)
§ 155.081 MU MIXED USE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The MU Mixed Use district is intended to accommodate a
variety of complimentary land uses including retail, office, service and
residential uses in close proximity to enable people to live, work and shop in
a single location. It is further intended to create central gathering places;
to encourage economic and social vitality; to promote the preservation and
rehabilitation of downtown buildings; and to provide development opportunities
that are safe and attractive to pedestrians and will strengthen the city's
economic base.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See the use table in §
155.096 for permitted and specific uses. Primary permitted uses are retail,
commercial, service, office and residential. Appropriate mixed-use development
may include the following examples:
      (1)   Residential uses in conjunction with nonresidential activities,
possibly located above retail and office establishments;
      (2)   Office, retail and service facilities combined to encourage linkage
of trips; and
      (3)   Pedestrian-oriented storefronts, amenities and open areas.
   (C)   Property development standards.
      (1)   Because the MU Mixed Use District encompasses the downtown core of
the city, limited district-based property development standards shall apply.
      (2)   New or in-fill development shall conform to the setbacks, height
and massing of existing structures found throughout the Mixed Use District
boundaries in order to maintain the character of the downtown area and shall
include a mixture of gable roof style, frame vernacular or Victorian type
architecture.
      (3)   See the use table in §
155.096 for specific development standards.
      (4)   If the immediately adjacent properties are vacant, then existing
structures on the next developed lot(s) shall serve as examples of the required
setbacks, height and massing. All development within the MU District shall
comply with other applicable sections of this chapter including compatibility
standards in §
155.076 above.
      (5)   Lot coverage. Maximum impervious cover for all uses in the MU
District shall be 50% of the lot area.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2022-10-05, passed 10-5-2022)
§ 155.082 C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The C-1 Commercial District is established to provide areas
for low intensity retail, office and service uses that are separate from but in
close proximity to residential areas. Uses in this district should be
compatible with surrounding neighborhoods, and should not generate excessive
traffic, noise, odors and the like, that are inappropriate when adjacent or in
close proximity to residential uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See the table in §
155.096 for permitted and specific uses.
   (C)   Property development standards. Each site in the C-1 District shall be
subject to the following property development standards.
      (1)   Lot size. The minimum lot size for shall be 6,000 square feet.
      (2)   Front setback. The minimum front setback for all uses in the C-
1 District shall be 15 feet, subject to compatibility standards of §
155.060.
      (3)   Rear setback. The minimum rear setback for all uses in the C-
1 District shall be ten feet.
      (4)   Interior side setback. The minimum interior side setback for all
uses in the C-1 District shall be six feet.
      (5)   Street side setback. The minimum side setback adjacent to a street
for all uses in the C-1 District shall be ten feet, unless the side street is a
major thoroughfare, in which case the minimum street side setback shall be 20
feet.
      (6)   Height. The maximum height for all uses in the C-1 District shall
be 35 feet or three stories.
      (7)   Lot coverage. Maximum impervious cover for all uses in the C-
1 District shall be 50% of the lot area.
      (8)   Landscaping. A minimum of 10% of the total developed lot area shall
be planted and maintained as landscape area.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-20-1, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2022-
10-06, passed 10-6-2022)
§ 155.083 C-2 HEAVY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The C-2 Heavy Commercial District is established to provide
locations for more intense commercial and service-related establishments than
those permitted in the C-1 District.
      (2)   Uses in this district may have operation characteristics that are
generally incompatible with residential uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See the use table in §
155.096 for permitted and specific uses.
   (C)   Property development standards. Each site in the C-2 District shall be
subject to the following property development standards.
      (1)   Lot size. Minimum lot size for all uses in the C-2 District shall
be 6,000 square feet.
      (2)   Front setback. The minimum front setback for all uses in the C-
2 District shall be 15 feet, subject to compatibility standards of §
155.060.
      (3)   Rear setback. The minimum rear setback for all uses in the C-
2 District shall be ten feet.
      (4)   Interior side setback. The minimum interior side setback for all
uses in the C-2 District shall be six feet.
      (5)   Street side setback. The minimum side setback adjacent to a street
for all uses in the C-2 District shall be ten feet, unless the side street is a
major thoroughfare, in which case the minimum street side setback shall be 20
feet.
      (6)   Height. The maximum height for all uses in the C-2 District shall
be 35 feet, or three stories.
      (7)   Lot coverage. Maximum impervious cover for all uses in the C-
2 District shall be 50% of the lot area.
      (8)   Landscaping. A minimum of 10% of the total developed lot area shall
be planted and maintained as landscape area.
   (D)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   See the table in §
155.096 for permitted and specific uses.
      (2)   A specific use permit must be obtained for a listed use other than
industrial uses which are within 500 feet of property in which heavy industry
is the primary use.
      (3)   A specific use permit shall be granted only if it is determined
that the health and safety of persons to be on the premises granted the special
use permit will not be endangered by proximity to heavy industry.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2022-10-06, passed 10-6-2022)
§ 155.084 I INDUSTRIAL USE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the I Industrial District is to provide areas
for those commercial and industrial facilities which are not generally
compatible with uses in other districts, emit particulates or odors, may
require on-site facilities to protect the health and welfare of the citizens,
or where an industrial accident or spill of toxic material may cause release of
a toxic substance proximate to an inhabited area.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   See the use table in §
155.096 for permitted and specific uses.
      (2)   A specific use permit must be obtained for a listed use other than
industrial uses which are within 500 feet of property in which heavy industry
is the primary use.
      (3)   A specific use permit shall be granted only if it is determined
that the health and safety of persons to be on the premises granted the special
use permit will not be endangered by proximity to heavy industry.
   (C)   Property development standards. Each site in the I District shall be
subject to the following property development standards.
      (1)   Lot size. Minimum lot size for all uses in the I District shall be
21,780 square feet.
      (2)   Front setback. The minimum front setback for all uses in the I
District shall be 25 feet, subject to compatibility standards of §
155.060.
      (3)   Rear setback. The minimum rear setback for all uses in the I
District shall be 20 feet.
      (4)   Interior side setback. The minimum interior side setback for all
uses in the I District shall be 20 feet.
      (5)   Street side setback. The minimum side setback adjacent to a street
for all uses in the I District shall be 20 feet.
      (6)   Lot coverage. Maximum impervious cover for all uses in the I
District shall be 50% of the lot area.
      (7)   Landscaping. A minimum of 10% of the total developed lot area shall
be planted and maintained as landscape area.
   (D)   Performance standards for industrial districts.
      (1)   Flammable, toxic and hazardous materials.
         (a)   The storage, manufacture, utilization or dispensing of
substances which may constitute or may cause danger to public health, safety or
welfare shall be conducted only within the limits and conditions specified in
the latest edition of the International Fire Code.
         (b)   The emission of toxic or explosive vapors, dusts or aerosols
into the atmosphere shall not exceed, at the facility property line, more than
50% of the limit of such as is given in "threshold limit values" as adopted at
the most recent meeting of the American Conference of Industrial Hygienists.
         (c)   No form of flammable, toxic, or other hazardous material shall
be released into or upon any utility line, pit, dump, open ground, stream or
drainageway.
         (d)   The container size, location, design and construction of any
storage tank, building or facility for any flammable, toxic or other hazardous
material shall be approved by the Fire Marshal and the Building Official as a
part of the building permit application and shall be based upon the
requirements of the International Fire Code and the International Building
Code.
      (2)   Pollution.
         (a)   No operation or activity shall discharge or cause to be released
into public waters any liquid or solid waste unless in conformance with the
latest provisions of the State Commission on Environmental Quality, the State
Department of Health and/or the State Railroad Commission.
         (b)   No operation or activity shall discharge or cause to be released
into the atmosphere any smoke or particulate matter which exceeds the limits
permitted by the latest requirements of the State Commission on Environmental
Quality.
      (3)   Nuisances.
         (a)   Lighting fixtures shall be arranged to shield direct light from
crossing any zone boundary line.
         (b)   No operation or activity shall at any time cause any earthborne
vibration which results in a horizontal or vertical ground displacement in
excess of 0.0002 inch at any facility property line.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2022-10-06, passed 10-6-2022)
SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.095 PURPOSE.
   The supplementary standards provided herein are for the purpose of
maintaining orderly uses within each District compatible with the health and
general welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.096 USE TABLE.
   (A)   The use table of this section provides a tabular summary of the land
use types permitted within each zoning district.
   (B)   The table is intended for reference only and does not necessarily
reflect all of the regulations that may apply to particular uses or districts.
   (C)   If a conflict occurs between the use table and the regulations found
within the individual district §§
155.075 through
155.084, the text of the individual district regulations shall control.
      (1)   Permitted by right. Uses identified with a "P" are permitted by
right and shall be permitted in the corresponding district subject to all other
applicable standards of this chapter and code requirements.
      (2)   Specific uses. Uses identified with "S" are allowed in the
corresponding district only with approval of a specific use permit.
      (3)   Not permitted. Uses not identified in a particular district column
are not allowed in the district.
      (4)   Conditions. The final column of the use table (CONDS) contains
references to supplementary use standards applicable to a use in one or more
districts. The referenced standards appear in §
155.097 below pertaining to supplementary use standards.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator may interpret a new and unlisted use as one
of the listed uses in the Use Table. The unlisted use should possess
characteristics similar to those of the listed use. Such an interpretation will
not require an amendment of the Use Table. However, the Zoning Administrator
will maintain a written record of all interpretations made under this
provision. If the Zoning Administrator declines to interpret a new and unlisted
use as a listed use, the Administrator will ask the Commission to make a
recommendation to the Council on placement of the new use in the Use Table, and
the Council will consider an amendment to the Use Table to incorporate the new
use.
Land Use R-1 R-1A R-2 R-3 R-4 MU C-1 I CONDS
Residential Uses
Land Use                           R-1 R-1A R-2 R-3 R-4 MU C-1 I CONDS
Residential Uses
Single-family, detached            P   P    P   P   P   P
Single-family, attached                             P
Duplex                                 P        P   P
Garden (patio) home                                 P
Industrialized (modular) home      P   P    P   P   P
Manufactured home                      P    P
Multi-family                                    P   P   S
Guest house (one per lot)          P   P    P   P   P   P
Bed and breakfast inn              S   S    S   P   P   P  P
Group home                         P   P    P   P   P   P
Boarding house                     S                    P  P
Loft apartments                                         P  S
Family home day care               P   P    P   P   P   P        §
                                                                 155.097(C) (3)
Home occupation                    P   P    P   P   P   P        §
                                                                 155.097(F)
Fraternity/sorority house                           P   S  P
Caretaker/guard residence                           P   P  P   P
Farm, ranch, orchard               P                    P
Public and Civic Uses
Church, place of worship           P   P    P   P   P   P  P     §
                                                                 155.097(C) (1)
Parsonage                          P   P    P   P   P   P  P
Civic center                                            P  P
College, university                                     P  P     §
                                                                 155.097(C) (2)
Museum/art gallery                                      P  P
Day care center                                         P  P     §
                                                                 155.097(C) (4)
Fraternal/philanthropic                                 P  P
organization
Governmental building                                   P  P   P
Hospital                                                   P
Library                                                 P  P
Nursing home                                            P  P
Parks and recreation               P   P    P   P   P   P  P
School, public or private          P   P    P   P   P   P  P
Communication towers                                       S   P
Utilities, limited                                         P   P
Office/Services Uses
Office- health, legal,                                  P  P
professional services
Retail                                                  P  P
Commercial Uses
Restaurant, dine-in only                                P  P
Restaurant, drive-thru                                     S
Dance hall                                              S  S
Financial Institution                                   S  P
Barber/beauty shop                                      P  P
Salon or spa                                            P  P
Hotel/motel                                             S  P
Funeral home                                               P
Retail kiosk                                            P  P
Laundry/dry cleaning                                    S  P
Self storage units                                         S   P
Shoe repair/tailor                                      P  P   P
Tool rental (indoor only)                                  P   P
Equipment rental (outdoor storage)                         S   P
Washateria                                              S  P
Bar or tavern                                           S  S
Campground                                                 S
Sexually oriented business                                       See
                                                                 Ch. 112
Veterinarian, no outdoor kennels                        S  P
Veterinarian, large animals                                S
Tubing-related business                              S     
Automotive Uses
Vehicle sales or rental                                    S
Auto repair, limited                                       S
Auto parts, retail                                         P
Car wash                                                   S
Lube/oil change, minor                                     P   P
Auto body/paint                                            S   P
Tire sales, outdoor storage                                S   P
Limousine/taxi service                                     S
Fuel service                                               S
Salvage yard                                                     Not permitted
Industrial Uses                                          §
                                                                 155.097(C) (5)
Manufacturing                                                  P
Warehousing and freight movement                               P
Waste services                                                 P
 
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-20-1, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2016-
06-07, passed 6-7-2016; Ord. 2016-08-02, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 155.097 SUPPLEMENTARY USE STANDARDS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued for any development or use of land unless
the activity is in compliance with all applicable supplementary use standards
specified in this section.
   (B)   Unless otherwise indicated, the listed standards apply in all
districts in which the subject use is permitted.
   (C)   The supplementary use standards shall be as follows.
      (1)   Church or place of worship. Churches and places of worship shall
not be allowed in the R-1, R-1A or R-2 Districts, unless direct vehicle access
is provided from a collector or arterial street or major thoroughfare, or
unless the point of access to the off-street parking area serving the use is
located within 1,500 feet of a collector or arterial street or major
thoroughfare, as measured along the centerline of the street right-of-way
leading to the church or place of worship. This standard shall not apply to
churches or places of worship located in the MU District.
      (2)   College or university. Direct vehicle access to college and
university facilities shall be provided from a collector or arterial street or
major thoroughfare. This standard shall not apply in the MU, C-1 or C-
2 Districts.
      (3)   Family home day care. The following shall apply to family home day
care facilities in residential districts:
         (a)   Facilities shall comply with all applicable state regulations;
         (b)   There shall be no signs or other exterior visible evidence of
the conduct of a business; and
         (c)   No more than one person outside the immediate family of the
caretaker may be employed at any time.
      (4)   Day care centers. The following shall apply to commercial day care
centers in all districts:
         (a)   Day care centers shall comply with all applicable state
regulations; and
         (b)   All outdoor play areas shall be enclosed by a fence or wall with
a minimum height of four feet.
      (5)   Heavy industry. No heavy industry use shall be allowed to locate
within 100 feet of the right-of-way of a public street or within 500 feet of
the lot line of a lot that is zoned R or that contains a single-family, duplex,
mobile home or multi-family use, unless approved as a variance under §
155.042.
      (6)   Home occupations. The following home occupation standards are
intended to permit residents to engage in home occupations within R and NC
zoning districts that are compatible with residential land uses and to ensure
that home occupations do not adversely affect the integrity of residential
areas. These home occupation standards shall have no application in the MU
District. A home occupation shall be considered an accessory use, subject to
the following standards:
         (a)   A home occupation must be conducted within a dwelling which is
the bona fide residence of the principal practitioner;
         (b)   There shall be no signs or other exterior visible evidence of a
home occupation;
         (c)   There shall be no visible storage of equipment, materials or
vehicles that have more than two axles;
         (d)   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the
principal residential building;
         (e)   No equipment shall be used that creates undue noise, vibration,
electrical interference, smoke or particulate matter emission, excessive power
demands or odors. Home occupations shall comply with the operational
performance standards of §
155.061; and
         (f)   Persons other than a member of the immediate family occupying
such a dwelling may be employed; provided, however, no more than two persons
other than family members shall be employed at any one time.
      (7)   Tubing-related businesses. The following shall apply to all tubing-
related businesses:
         (a)   The application submitted by a business for a specific use
permit under §
155.040 shall include a site plan showing the location of all structures/
facilities, including river access points, parking/driveway areas, shuttle
vehicle dropoff/pickup/turnaround areas, vehicle/equipment storage areas, and
water quality detention ponds. If one or more off-site river access points will
be used, a separate site plan showing parking/driveway areas and shuttle
vehicle dropoff/pickup/turnaround areas shall be submitted for each such access
point. If an off-site access point is on private property, the application
shall include written permission for the applicant's use and for all required
improvements to the access point area. If an off-site access point is on public
property or right-of-way, the application shall include written approval by the
entity having jurisdiction over the area for the applicant's use and for all
required improvements to the access point area.
         (b)   The minimum lot size shall be ½ acre (21,780 square feet) for
the principal business site and for the site of any accessory use such as
customer parking or vehicle/equipment storage.
         (c)   The front setback shall be 100 feet.
         (d)   The side and rear setbacks shall be 50 feet, unless a larger
setback is required under §
155.060.
         (e)   The maximum lot coverage shall be 50%.
         (f)   All driveways, shuttle vehicle dropoff/pickup/turnaround areas,
customer vehicle parking areas, and vehicle/equipment storage areas shall be
paved (concrete, HMAC, or pervious pavement/pavers).
         (g)   All impervious and paved areas shall be graded to drain to water
quality detention ponds sized to handle 5-year and 25-year rain events.
         (h)   All alterations to existing grades within 100 feet of the edge
of a river shall be designed by a Texas-registered professional engineer and
shall be subject to approval by the city floodplain administrator, the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, and all
other regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the work.
         (i)   All improvements shall be constructed, operated and maintained
in full compliance with
Chapter 153, Flood Damage Prevention.
         (j)   Each river access point used by the business shall include at
least one ADA accessible route for entry to the river.
         (k)   Permanent, site-built restroom facilities shall be provided at
each river access point used by the business; the minimum number of fixtures
will be determined in accordance with the current adopted plumbing code
standard for facilities for outdoor sporting events and activities, with the
facility capacity determined by the number of tubes available for rental for
any purpose.
         (l)   Direct vehicle access to each business site, including customer
parking and vehicle/equipment storage areas, shall be provided from a collector
or arterial street or major thoroughfare.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2016-08-02, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 155.098 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Principal uses classified as permitted uses by the district
regulations of this subchapter and §§
155.075 through
155.084 above shall be deemed to include accessory uses and activities that are
customarily associated with and appropriate, incidental and subordinate to
permitted principal uses.
   (B)   Accessory uses and activities shall be subject to the same regulations
as principal uses unless otherwise stated.
   (C)   Accessory uses shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential accessory uses. Residential accessory uses shall
include but not be limited to the following accessory uses, activities and
structures:
         (a)   Fences and walls;
         (b)   Garages, carports, driveways and off-street parking areas;
         (c)   Gates and guardhouses;
         (d)   Home occupations, subject to the standards of §
155.097 above;
         (e)   Playhouses, patios, cabanas porches, gazebos and incidental
household storage buildings;
         (f)   Radio and television receiving antennas and support structures;
         (g)   Recreational facilities for the use of residents;
         (h)   Keeping of domestic animals for noncommercial purposes;
         (i)   Solar energy systems; and
         (j)   Other necessary and customary uses determined by the Zoning
Administrator to be appropriate incidental and subordinate to the principal use
on the lot.
      (2)   Retail, commercial and office accessory uses. Retail, commercial
and office accessory uses shall include but not be limited to the following
accessory uses, activities and structures:
         (a)   Dwelling units for security or maintenance personnel;
         (b)   Fences, walls, gates and guardhouses;
         (c)   Parking garages, driveways and off-street parking areas;
         (d)   Radio and television receiving antennas and support structures;
         (e)   Signs, subject to city ordinances regulating same;
         (f)   Solar energy systems; and
         (g)   Other necessary and customary uses determined by the Zoning
Administrator to be appropriate, incidental and subordinate to the principal
use on the lot.
      (3)   Communication towers. 
         (a)   Definition. In this division, COMMUNICATION TOWER means a
structure 40 feet or more in height that supports one or more communication
antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers or monopole
towers. If a communication tower is not mounted on a building, the height is
measured from the grade adjacent to the base of the tower. If a communication
tower is mounted on a building, the height is measured from the area of the
building where the base of the tower is mounted. COMMUNICATION TOWER does not
include a support structure for an antenna serving  police, fire, or another
emergency service provider, nor does it include a utility structure such as a
water tank or power line support tower upon which antennas are located if the
antennas do not extend more than ten feet above the highest point of the
utility structure.
         (b)   General requirements:
            1.   The zoning districts within which communication towers may be
located are shown in the Use Table in §
155.096.
            2.   A communication tower shall not be located closer to any
residential district boundary line or residential dwelling than a distance
equal to twice the height of the tower. This distance shall be measured as the
shortest possible distance in a straight line from the tower to the closest
point of the residential district boundary line or the residential dwelling.
            3.   No communication tower, support building, foundation, support
wires or other appurtenances shall be located within any required front, side,
or rear setback area.
            4.   A building permit is required to erect a communication tower
or to install an antenna on a communication tower. Communication towers and
antennas must meet or exceed the current federal, state and local standards and
regulations.
            5.   Communication towers shall be equipped with safeguards to
prevent unauthorized access. Safeguards can include devices recommended by the
tower manufacturer, fencing, walls, climbing guards, or other security devices.
            6.   Collocation is greatly encouraged by the city. All new
communication towers over 50 feet in height shall be constructed to support
antennas for at least two carriers.
            7.   Support buildings and storage areas shall be screened from
public view by a wall, opaque fencing, or landscaping, shall meet all
applicable front, side and rear yard setback requirements, and shall use
exterior colors and materials that are compatible with nearby structures.
            8.   No signs other than those required by law shall be mounted on
a communication tower, support building, or associated wall or fence.
         (c)   Specific use permit; factors. If construction of a communication
tower requires a specific use permit, the Zoning Commission shall consider the
following factors, in addition to the factors described in §
155.040:
            1.   The city may not unreasonably discriminate among providers of
functionally equivalent services;
            2.   The city may not regulate in a manner that prohibits or has
the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services;
            3.   The city must act on applications within a reasonable period
of time;
            4.   The city must make any denial of an application in writing,
and supported by substantial evidence in the minutes of the meeting; and
            5.   The city may not base a decision directly or indirectly on the
environmental effects of radio frequency emissions.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2015-02-17-04, passed 2-17-2015)
PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 155.110 TABLE OF PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The property development standards table of this section provides a
summary of the development standards that apply within zoning districts.
   (B)   The table is intended for reference and may not reflect all of the
regulations and standards that apply to particular uses.
   (C)   If a conflict occurs between the table and the standards found within
the individual district §§
155.075 through
155.084 above, the text of the individual district regulations shall control.
   (D)   The measurements and exemptions found in §§
155.111 through
155.113 below provide an explanation of terms used, as well as a number of
exceptions and special rules that apply.
Property Development Standards Table
Development Standard R-1 R-1A R-2 R-3 R-4 MU1 C-1 C-2 I
Property Development Standards Table
Development R-1      R-1A   R-2   R-3     R-4     MU1      C-1   C-2   I
Standard
Single-Family, Detached
Minimum lot
area per
unit        1/2 acre 7,300  7,300 7,300   4,500   Existing
(square
feet)
Front yard
setbacks    25       25     25    20      20      Existing
(feet)
Rear yard
setbacks    20       20     20    15      10      Existing
(feet)
Interior
side yard   6        6      6     6       6       Existing
setbacks
(feet)
Street side
yard        10*      10*    10*   10*     10*     Existing
setbacks
(feet)
Maximum
height      28.5     28.5   28.5  28.5    35      Existing
(feet)
Maximum lot 20%      20%    30%   40%     40%     50%      50%   50%   50%
coverage
Landscape                                         20%
area
Single-Family, Attached
Minimum lot
area per                                  3000/   Existing
unit (sq.                                 4000
ft.)
Front yard
setbacks                                  20      Existing
(feet)
Rear yard
setbacks                                  10      Existing
(feet)
Interior
side yard                                         Existing
setbacks
(feet)
Street side
yard                                      10      Existing
setbacks
(feet)
Maximum
height                                    35      Existing
(feet)
Duplex Dwellings
Minimum lot
area per             11,000       11,000  7,000   Existing
unit (sq.
ft.)
Front yard
setbacks             15           20      20      Existing
(feet)
Rear yard
setbacks             10           15      10      Existing
(feet)
Interior
side yard            5            6       6       Existing
setbacks
(feet)
Street side
yard                 10*          10*     10*     Existing
setbacks
(feet)
Maximum
height               28.5         28.5    35      Existing
(feet)
Lot                  20%          40%     40%     50%
coverage
Landscape                                         20%
area
Multi-Family Dwellings
Minimum lot
area per                          21.780* 10,890* Existing
unit
Development
Standard
Front yard
setbacks                          20      20      Existing
(feet)
Rear yard
setbacks                          15      10      Existing
(feet)
Interior
side yard                         6       6       Existing
setbacks
(feet)
Street side
yard                              10*     10*     Existing
setbacks
(feet)
Maximum
height                            28.5    35      Existing
(feet)
Lot                               40%     40%     50%
coverage
Landscape                         20%     20%     20%
area
Commercial and Industrial Uses
Minimum lot                                       Existing 6,000 6,000 21,780
size
Front yard
setbacks                                          Existing 15    15    25
(feet)
Rear yard
setbacks                                          Existing 10    10    20
(feet)
Interior
side yard                                         Existing 6     6     20
setbacks
(feet)
Street side
yard                                              Existing 10    10    20
setbacks
(feet)
Maximum
height                                            Existing 35    35
(feet)
Lot                                               50%      50%   50%   50%
coverage
Landscape                                         20%      15%   10%   10%
area
1Shall conform to existing structures and uses pursuant to §
155.081(C)
 
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2022-10-06, passed 10-6-2022)
§ 155.111 LOT SIZE/AREA.
   (A)   Lot size or lot area refers to the amount of horizontal land area
within lot lines.
   (B)   No building permit or development approval shall be issued for a lot
that does not meet the minimum lot size requirements of this chapter, with the
following exceptions.
      (1)   Lot size reduction for public purpose. When an existing lot is
reduced as a result of conveyance to a federal, state or local government for a
public purpose and the remaining area is at least 75% of the required minimum
lot size for the district in which it is located, the remaining lot shall be
deemed to be in compliance with the minimum lot size standards of this chapter.
      (2)   Utility facilities. Utility facilities using land or an unoccupied
building requiring less than 1,000 square feet of site area are exempt from the
minimum lot size requirements of all districts.
      (3)   Single-family dwelling exemptions. The minimum lot size
requirements of this chapter shall not be interpreted as prohibiting the
construction of a single-family residential dwelling unit in a lot that was
legally platted or recorded prior to the effective date of this chapter,
provided it is a permitted use in the applicable zoning district.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.112 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Generally. Under this chapter, a setback refers to the unobstructed,
unoccupied open space between a structure and the property line of the lot on
which the structure is located. Setbacks shall be unobstructed from the ground
to the sky and measured as the horizontal distance between a property line and
the furthermost projection of the structure, except as provided otherwise in
this chapter.
   (B)   Features allowed. The following features may be located within
required setbacks:
      (1)   Trees, shrubbery or other features of natural growth, subject to
sight visibility triangle restrictions as defined;
      (2)   Fences or walls;
      (3)   Driveways, off-street parking areas and sidewalks;
      (4)   Signs;
      (5)   Bay windows, architectural design embellishments and cantilevered
floor areas of dwellings that do not project more than two feet into the
required setback;
      (6)   Eaves on residential structures that do not project more than two
and one-half feet into the required setback;
      (7)   Open outside stairways, entrance hoods, terraces, canopies,
carports and balconies that do not project more than five feet into a required
front or rear setback or more than two feet into a required side setback;
      (8)   Chimneys, flues and ventilating ducts that do not project more than
two feet into a required setback and when placed so as not to obstruct light
and ventilation;
      (9)   Open, unenclosed porches that do not project more than five feet
into a required front or rear setback or more than two feet into a required
side setback;
      (10)   Utility lines, wires and associated structures, such as power
poles; and
      (11)   Mechanical equipment, such as air conditioning units, pool
filtering and heating equipment, water softeners and similar equipment, if the
equipment does not restrict access through the setbacks and if it is totally
screened from view from abutting property and rights-of-way by fences, walls or
landscaping.
   (C)   Setback averaging.
      (1)   If the existing front setbacks of lots within the same block and
district and fronting on the same side of the street are less than the required
front setback of the underlying district, applicants shall be allowed to use
the average front setback on the block.
      (2)   In those cases, the average setback shall represent the mean
(average) setback of all lots on the same side of the street within the same
block, provided that lots that are not developed with the same type of use that
is proposed on the subject property shall not be included in the calculation.
      (3)   When one or more of the lots on the block are vacant, the normally
required setback for the vacant lot shall be used in calculating the average
setback. This shall not be interpreted as requiring a greater front setback
than imposed by the underlying district.
   (D)   Reduction of setback for public purpose. When an existing setback is
reduced as a result of conveyance to a federal, state or local government for a
public purpose and the remaining setback is at least 75% of the required
minimum setback for the district in which it is located, the remaining setback
shall be deemed to be in compliance with the minimum setback standards of this
chapter.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.113 HEIGHT.
   (A)   Generally. Height refers to the vertical distance between the average
finished grade at the base of the building, and the highest point of the coping
of a mansard or flat roof; or the midpoint between the eaves and ridge line of
a gable, hip or gambrel roof. For fences or walls, height shall be measured on
the side with the least vertical exposure above the finished grade to the top
of the fence or wall.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following structures and features shall be exempt from
the height requirements of this chapter to the extent indicated:
      (1)   Chimneys, smokestacks or flues;
      (2)   Cooling towers and ventilators;
      (3)   Elevator bulkheads and stairway enclosures;
      (4)   Utility poles and support structures;
      (5)   Belfries, spires and church steeples;
      (6)   Tanks, water towers and silos; and
      (7)   Communication towers.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2015-02-17-04, passed 2-17-2015)
OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.125 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   The administration and inspection requirements of this subchapter shall be
the responsibility of the Building Official. The Building Official shall
determine compliance with this subchapter prior to the approval or the issuance
of a building permit.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.126 EXCEPTIONS TO OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Building Official is granted the authority to issue a building
permit where there are minor discrepancies with regard to the requirements
established in this subchapter, where it is determined that the literal
application of the requirements would constitute an undue hardship with regard
to the applicant’s particular circumstances and would not be essential in
accomplishing the objectives of this subchapter.
   (B)   In areas that are fully or near fully developed, a variance of up to
30% of the number of off-street parking spaces required in this subchapter
shall be allowed by the Building Official, if the conversion of a structure
from a nonresidential use to another use would require the addition of more
off-street parking, and if it is determined that the literal application of the
revisions would constitute an undue hardship with regard to the applicant’s
particular circumstances and would not be essential in accomplishing the
objectives of this subchapter.
   (C)   If the applicant is dissatisfied with the decision of the Building
Official with regard to a requested exception, the applicant shall be entitled
to appeal the decision to the Board.
   (D)   The off-street parking requirements of this chapter will not apply to
buildings and uses in the 400 Block of Main Street.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2013-08-20-1, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 155.127 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR SPACES.
   There shall be provided, at a time as a building permit is issued for the
erection, alteration or use change of a structure, off-street parking spaces in
accordance with the following minimum requirements:
   (A)   Bowling alley: five parking spaces for each lane;
   (B)   Business or professional office, studio, bank, medical or dental
clinic: three parking spaces plus one additional parking space for each 250
square feet of floor area over 500;
   (C)   Church, theater, auditorium (except school), sports arena, stadium or
gymnasium: one parking space for each four seats or bench seating spaces;
   (D)   Library, museum or art gallery: ten parking spaces plus one additional
space for each 300 square feet of floor area in excess of 2,000 square feet. If
an auditorium is included as a part of the building, its floor area shall be
deducted from the total and additional parking provided on the basis of one
space for each four seats that it contains;
   (E)   Dance hall, assembly or exhibition hall without fixed seats: one
parking space for each 100 square feet of floor area used thereof;
   (F)   Fraternity, sorority or dormitory: one parking space for each bed;
   (G)   Furniture or appliance store, hardware store, wholesale establishment,
machinery or equipment sales and service, clothing or shoe repair or service
shop: one parking space for each 300 square feet of floor area;
   (H)   Hospital: four parking spaces plus one additional parking space for
each four beds;
   (I)   Hotel: one parking space for each sleeping room or suite plus one
space for each 200 square feet of commercial floor area contained therein;
   (J)   Industrial plant: the number of parking spaces required to accommodate
all plant employees and construction forces on any single shift;
   (K)   Mortuary or funeral home: one parking space for each 50 square feet of
floor space in slumber rooms, parlors or individual funeral service rooms;
   (L)   Motor vehicle sales room and used car lot: one parking space for each
800 square feet of sales floor or lot area;
   (M)   Private club, lodge, country club or golf club: one parking space for
each 150 square feet of floor area or for every five members, whichever is
greater;
   (N)   Restaurant, nightclub, café or similar recreation or amusement
establishment: one parking space for each 100 square feet of floor area;
   (O)   Retail store or personal service establishment, except as otherwise
specified in this section: one parking space for each 250 square feet of retail
sales or floor area;
   (P)   Rooming house or boardinghouse: one parking space for each sleeping
room;
   (Q)   Sanitarium, convalescent home, home for the aged or similar
institution: one parking space for each six beds;
   (R)   School, elementary: one parking space for each ten seats in the
auditorium or main assembly room or more space for each classroom, whichever is
greater;
   (S)   School, secondary and college: one parking space for each eight seats
in the main auditorium or three spaces for each classroom, whichever is
greater;
   (T)   Single-family detached dwelling: two parking spaces for each dwelling
unit.
   (U)   Tourist home, cabin or motel: one parking space for each sleeping room
or suite;
   (V)   Townhouse, two-family and multi-family dwelling: two and one-quarter
spaces per dwelling unit. Guest parking is to be provided within 300 feet of
each dwelling unit; and
   (W)   Tubing-related business: one parking space for each four tubes
available for rental for any purpose
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008; Ord. 2016-08-02, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 155.128 RULES FOR COMPUTING NUMBER OF SPACES.
   In computing the number of parking spaces required, the following rules
shall govern:
   (A)   Floor area shall mean the foundation area of the specified use. For a
multi-story building, each story shall be considered a separate foundation
area, so that the total floor area of the building shall include the area of
all floors added together;
   (B)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall be
construed to be the nearest whole number;
   (C)   The parking space requirement for a use not specifically mentioned in
this subchapter shall be the same as required for a use of a similar nature;
and
   (D)   For mixed uses, the parking spaces required shall equal the sum of the
requirements of the various uses computed separately.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.129 CONSTRUCTION OR USE CHANGES.
   Whenever a building or use is constructed or changed after the effective
date of the ordinance by enlarging the floor area, number of employees, number
of dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise, to create a requirement for
an increase in the number of parking spaces, the spaces shall be provided on
the basis of the enlargement or the change in use.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.130 LOCATION OF SPACES.
   All parking spaces required in this subchapter shall be located on the same
lot with the building or use served, except as follows:
   (A)   Where an increase in the number of spaces is required by a change or
enlargement of the use or where the spaces are provided collectively or used
jointly by two or more buildings or establishments, the required spaces may be
located not to exceed 300 feet from an institutional building served and not to
exceed 500 feet from any other nonresidential building served;
   (B)   No more than 50% of the parking spaces required for theaters, bowling
lanes, dance halls, nightclubs or cafés may be provided and used jointly by
similar uses not normally open, used or operated during the same hours as those
listed; provided, however, that written agreement thereto is properly executed
and filed as specified in division (D) below;
   (C)   Not more than 80% of the parking spaces required for a church or
school auditorium may be provided and used jointly by similar uses not normally
open, used or operated during the same hours as those listed; provided,
however, that written agreement thereto is properly executed and filed as
specified in division (D) below; and
   (D)   When the required parking spaces are not located on the same lot with
the building or use served or when the spaces are collectively or jointly
provided and used, a written agreement thereby assuring their intention for
those purposes shall be properly drawn and executed by the parties concerned,
approved as to form by the City Attorney, and shall be filed with the
application for a building permit.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.131 MINIMUM DIMENSIONS.
   The minimum dimensions for off-street parking spaces required under this
subchapter shall be as follows:
   (A)   Ninety-degree angle parking. Each parking space shall be not less than
nine feet wide or less than 18 feet in length. Maneuvering space shall be in
addition to parking space and shall be not less than 23 feet perpendicular in
width;
   (B)   Sixty-degree angle parking. Each parking space shall be not less than
nine feet wide perpendicular to the parking angle or less than 20 feet in
length when measured at the appropriate angles. Maneuvering space shall be in
addition to parking space and shall be not less than 20 feet in width;
   (C)   Forty-five-degree angle parking. Each parking space shall be not less
than nine feet wide perpendicular to the parking angle or less than 19 feet in
length when measured at the appropriate angles. Maneuvering space shall be in
addition to parking space and shall be not less than 11 feet in width; and
   (D)   Other. Where off-street parking facilities are provided in excess of
the minimum amounts specified in this subchapter, or when off-street parking
facilities are provided but not required by this subchapter, the off-street
parking facilities shall comply with the minimum dimensions for parking and
maneuvering space specified in this section.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.132 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The design of driveways, off-street parking stalls and curb cuts shall be in
accordance with generally accepted municipal engineering standards and
practices as determined by the Building Official.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.133 ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Off-street parking spaces shall be reserved for the physically
disabled in a location and an amount not less than that required by the
Americans with Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines.
   (B)   Each parking space reserved for the physically disabled shall conform
to the identification requirements of the State Department of Licensing and
regulation promulgated under state law, and the design specifications
enumerated in the Americans with Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines.
   (C)   State law offenses for improper use of parking spaces reserved for the
disabled upon private property shall apply within the city. Any peace officer
and the designated city official enforcing parking regulations may issue
citations for improper use.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
OVERLAY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.145 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Designation of an area intended as a zoning Overlay District merely
supplements the primary underlying zoning district classification.
      (2)   The height of structure shall be determined by the regulations set
forth for the underlying, primary zoning district classification except where
more restrictive height and area regulations are specified in an overlay zone.
      (3)   If there is any conflict between the provisions of this subchapter
and other provisions of this chapter, the most restrictive regulation shall
apply in the absence of a specific directive to the contrary.
   (B)   Authority. The City Council may designate Overlay Districts and
define, amend and delineate the boundaries thereof in accordance with this
subchapter if the proposed Overlay District project would result in a greater
benefit to the city than would development under the base zoning district
regulations. In designating an Overlay District, the City Council may impose
other conditions as are deemed necessary to accomplish the purposes of this
chapter and the city's comprehensive plan.
   (C)   Initiation; removal.
      (1)   Initiation. An application for an amendment to the official zoning
map to provide for an Overlay District may be proposed by the owner(s) of
property within the proposed Overlay District, or upon recommendation from the
Commission or staff to City Council.
      (2)   Removal. An application for an amendment to the official zoning map
to remove an Overlay District may be proposed by:
         (a)   All of the owner(s) of property within the Overlay District; or
         (b)   The Mayor, a member of the City Council or the City Manager, if
the property is not being developed in accordance with the master development
plan approved by the City Council.
   (D)   Submission of application.
      (1)   Application. An application concerning an Overlay District shall be
subject to and must satisfy all provisions of §
155.045.
      (2)   Master development plan. The application must also include a master
development plan of the development, which shall be incorporated into any
ordinance establishing the requested Overlay District. The plan shall control
development within an Overlay District to the extent specified in the ordinance
creating the Overlay District. The master development plan must include at a
minimum the following:
         (a)   A comparison of the proposed development with the standards of
underlying zoning district and a statement by the applicant describing how the
proposed development provides greater benefits to the city than would a
development carried out in accordance with otherwise applicable zoning and
development regulations;
         (b)   Identification of site planning features designed to ensure
compatibility between on-site residential and nonresidential uses, and with the
surrounding neighborhood and land uses;
         (c)   A narrative addressing the proposed development explaining and
tabulating the land uses by gross acre, number of dwelling units by housing
type, maximum building coverage by land use type, residential density and/or
square footage of nonresidential uses per net acre, common area and open space
acreage, potential traffic generation, overall character and architectural
style, the relationship of the proposed development to existing development in
the area and other related development features;
         (d)   A site plan drawn to scale of the entire proposed Overlay
District, which shall include, but not limited to, the location of buildings,
parking lots and circulation, streets, parks, utility easement, the building
height, setbacks from all boundaries, trails and trail connections, utilities,
existing and proposed land uses, common area, open space, landscaping plan, a
conceptual drainage plan and entrance locations on existing roads;
         (e)   Density and dimensional standards to be applicable within the
proposed Overlay District;
         (f)   A statement of how the proposed development is consistent with
the city's comprehensive plan;
         (g)   The minimum lot square footage for all uses, including the
minimum lot width and depth;
         (h)   Information relating to the transition between and buffering of
different uses;
         (i)   The variation from normal zoning and subdivision provisions
needed to implement the plan; and
         (j)   Other relevant information as may be requested by the director
of planning and development services.
   (E)   Procedures to create Overlay Districts.
      (1)   Overlay districts shall be created pursuant to the procedures in §
155.041, unless expressly specified otherwise in this subchapter.
      (2)   Ten copies of the master development plan, which is to be
considered by the City Council, must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator
at least ten days prior to the meeting during which the City Council will
consider the plan.
   (F)   Overlay district map. The boundaries of any Overlay District
established by the City Council pursuant to this subchapter shall be shown on
the official district map created and maintained as required pursuant to §
155.004 above.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.146 PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of planned unit development regulations is to allow
more creative and imaginative design of land development than may be possible
under district zoning regulations.
         (a)   Planned unit developments are intended to allow substantial
flexibility in planning and design while maintaining consistency with the
general provisions of this chapter and of the city's comprehensive plan.
         (b)   This flexibility often accrues in the form of relief from
compliance with conventional Zoning Ordinance site and design requirements.
         (c)   Ideally, this flexibility results in a development that is
better planned and makes more efficient use of resources than one produced in
accordance with typical Zoning Ordinance standards.
      (2)   Approval of a planned unit development is intended to:
         (a)   Promote innovative and creative design of residential and
nonresidential areas;
         (b)   Promote efficient use of land by facilitating a more economic
arrangement of buildings, infrastructure, circulation systems, land use and
facilities;
         (c)   Encourage high standards in the layout, design and construction
of residential and nonresidential development and promote opportunities for
varied housing types;
         (d)   Conserve, protect and enhance the natural environment through
flexibility of design and development within a PUD, and preserve
environmentally sensitive lands;
         (e)   Allow a diversification of uses, structures and open space in a
manner compatible with both the surrounding, existing and approved development
of land surrounding and abutting the PUD site;
         (f)   Provide more useable and suitably located open space and
recreation facilities, as well as other public and common facilities than would
otherwise be provided under conventional land development planning practices;
         (g)   Achieve harmonious building and site designs; and
         (h)   To create a method for the permanent preservation of historic
buildings and/or landmarks.
   (B)   Designation.
      (1)   Criteria for designation. A designation for a Planned Unit
Development Overlay District may be made if:
         (a)   The PUD Overlay District project would result in a greater
benefit to the city than would development under the base zoning district
regulations;
         (b)   The site of the proposed PUD Overlay District contains at least
two acres of contiguous land, unless Council finds that the property of less
than two acres is suitable by virtue of its unique historical character,
topography or other natural features or unique design layout of proposed
subdivision; and
         (c)   The PUD Overlay District project satisfies all other provisions
of this subchapter and is consistent with the city's comprehensive plan.
      (2)   Process for designation. The initiation, application and procedure
to establish a PUD Overlay District shall be in accordance with division (A)
above. Additionally, the master development plan must include:
         (a)   The existing and proposed use of the structure;
         (b)   Any planned rehabilitation by the property owner; and
         (c)   The nature and degree of endangerment to the structure.
      (3)   Removing a designation. A designation for a PUD Overlay District
may be removed in the same manner and by the same process by which it was
enacted.
   (C)   Property development standards.
      (1)   Lot. The minimum lot area, width, frontage and yard requirements
for single-family residences may be altered as approved by City Council.
      (2)   Streets. Minimum street widths or alleys proposed within a PUD
Overlay District shall be flexible in order to promote innovative design.
      (3)   Off-street parking. A minimum of two off street parking spaces
shall be provided for each single-family unit.
         (a)   The required off-street parking spaces must be located on the
lot of the single-family unit or be provided elsewhere within the proposed
development.
         (b)   The single-family dwelling unit garage does not count toward
satisfying this requirement.
         (c)   No portion of a street may be used in calculating the required
off-street parking spaces. All nonresidential parking shall comply with city
ordinances and regulations.
      (4)   Building height. Height limitations shall be the same as imposed in
this chapter for the underlying zoning district.
      (5)   Open space. At least 30% of the open space required in herein shall
be converted to common areas used for recreation or parks.
      (6)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be provided for residential and
nonresidential developments. A minimum of two trees and eight shrubs shall be
provided for each single-family residential unit on each single-family
residential lot. Fifty percent of the required trees may be located in an open
space as defined herein. The specific placement, forward of the rear building
line, shall be left to the discretion of the developer. Whenever practicable,
the preservation of existing trees is encouraged.
      (7)   Buffering and screening. Open space buffers and screening shall be
required to separate land uses within ths PUD Overlay District. No parking lot,
structures or equipment pads shall be placed in an open space buffer. The
minimum size of an open space buffer shall be 20 feet measured from the
exterior property line that is adjacent to the single-family or duplex use.
Screening shall be provided along the property line adjacent to the single-
family or duplex use.
      (8)   Engineering and construction standards. Engineering and
construction standards shall be the same as imposed in the International
Building Code.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty. The person commits an offense if the person violates the
provisions of this chapter and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by
a fine not to exceed $500. Each day in which a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Civil enforcement. If a building or other structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or if a
building, other structure or land is used in violation of this chapter, the
City Council may, in addition to other remedies, institute an appropriate civil
action to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, to restrain, correct or
abate the violation or to prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or
land or prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use on or about the
premises. The city shall be entitled to recover its reasonable attorney's fees
and expenses for prosecuting any action to a successful conclusion.
(Ord. 08-347, passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 156: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS FOR PROJECTS IN THE ETJ
Section
   
156.01   Definitions
   
156.02   Authority; purposes
   
156.03   Procedures
   
156.04   Policies applicable to applications for development agreements
   
156.05   Land Use Plan
   
156.06   Development agreement
§ 156.01 DEFINITIONS.
   COMMISSION. The City Planning and Zoning Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE MASTER PLAN. The comprehensive plan approved by the City
Council for the future growth of the city.
   ETJ. The area of the city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction, as determined
under state law.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. All on-site and off-site street, roadway, sidewalk/trail,
potable water, wastewater collection and treatment, and drainage improvements
to be constructed to serve a project.
(Ord. 2013-01-22, passed 1-22-2013)
§ 156.02 AUTHORITY; PURPOSES.
   (A)   Authority. The city’s authority to enter into development agreements
under this chapter derives from Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 212.172, as amended.
   (B)   Purposes. The purposes of development agreements under this chapter
are to extend the city’s planning authority over projects in the ETJ which are
proposed to be developed prior to annexation by the city, to apply development
standards to these projects that are compatible with those which apply within
the city limits, and to establish schedules for eventual annexation of the
projects into the city.
(Ord. 2013-01-22, passed 1-22-2013)
§ 156.03 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application. 
      (1)   A landowner who wishes to develop a project in the ETJ under a
development agreement with the city must submit a completed application for
development agreement on a form provided by the city. The application must be
accompanied by all of the following:
         (a)   A map of the property that shows relevant city limit and ETJ
boundaries;
         (b)   A proposed land use plan for the project meeting the
requirements in §
156.05;
         (c)   Proposed development standards for the project meeting the
requirements in §
156.06. Specific references should be made to any proposed development
standards which exceed the development standards that apply within the city;
         (d)   A general description of the infrastructure to be constructed to
serve the project;
         (e)   If any city services are proposed to be provided to the project
prior to full-purpose annexation, a description of the proposed method by which
residents and uses in the project will contribute fairly and adequately to the
cost of the services;
         (f)   A preliminary schedule for development of the project, including
a general description of any phasing under which the project will be developed;
         (g)   A proposed schedule for full-purpose annexation of the project.
The schedule should be phased if the project is to be developed in phases;
         (h)   A description of any areas proposed for limited-purpose
annexation by the city, and the purposes for which the annexation is proposed;
         (i)   A description of any development procedures proposed for use by
the city for the project which differ from those which apply to development
within the city;
         (j)   A description of the extent to which the applicant proposes that
city development regulations be vested under the development agreement;
         (k)   The proposed term of the development agreement;
         (l)   If the project involves the proposed creation of a special
district, the type of district proposed, the purposes for the district, a
description of how the creation of the district will be coordinated with review
of the development agreement, and a description of the services the district
will provide to the project; and
         (m)   A deposit towards the costs associated with processing and
reviewing the application in accordance with §
32.04 of this Code, or a request for an agreement under which the applicant
will pay those costs, which will be subject to approval by the City Council
before further processing of the application.
      (2)   The applicant will bear all costs associated with processing and
review of the application.
   (B)   Public hearing and consideration of application by Planning and Zoning
Commission.
      (1)   Upon determining that an application is complete and the applicant
has made adequate provisions for the costs of processing and reviewing the
application, the City Administrator will schedule the application for a public
hearing and consideration by the Commission, if there is a Commission separate
from the City Council. If there is no separate Commission, the application will
be processed under division (C) below.
      (2)   The public hearing will be preceded by a notice published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city at least ten days before the date
of the hearing. The Commission will hold a public hearing on the application,
and after concluding the public hearing, the Commission will review the
application using the policies in §
156.04, and will vote to recommend to the City Council approval, approval with
modifications, or denial of the application.
   (C)   Public hearing and consideration of application by City Council. Upon
receipt of the Commission’s recommendation on an application, or if there is no
commission separate from the City Council, the City Administrator will schedule
the application for a public hearing and consideration by the City Council. The
public hearing will be preceded by a notice published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city at least ten days before the date of the hearing. The
Council will hold a public hearing on the application and, after concluding the
public hearing, the Council will review the application using the policies in §
156.04, and will vote to approve, approve with modifications, or deny the
application. If the Council approves the application or approves the
application with modifications, the City Administrator and City Attorney will
proceed to negotiate the terms of the development agreement with the applicant.
   (D)   Consideration of development agreement by City Council. Upon
completion of negotiation of the terms of the development agreement, the City
Administrator will schedule the agreement for consideration by the City
Council. The Council will hold a public hearing on the agreement and, after
concluding the public hearing, the Council will vote to approve, approve with
modifications, or deny the agreement.
   (E)   Takings impact assessment; waiver. If the city determines that
approval of a development agreement may constitute an action requiring a
takings impact assessment under Tex. Gov’t Code, Ch. 2007, as amended, the
applicant will authorize the city to have the assessment performed at the
applicant’s cost, or the development agreement will include a waiver by the
applicant and the property owner of rights under Tex. Gov’t Code, Ch. 2007, as
amended. If the applicant authorizes the assessment to be performed, City
Council consideration of the development agreement will be scheduled after the
city receives the final assessment report and any required notices are
published.
(Ord. 2013-01-22, passed 1-22-2013)
§ 156.04 POLICIES APPLICABLE TO APPLICATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   The following policies will be considered in deciding whether to approve an
application for a development agreement:
   (A)   The project should comply with applicable policies of the
Comprehensive Master Plan;
   (B)   The land use districts or categories proposed by the applicant should
be compatible with those which apply to development within the city;
   (C)   The Land Use Plan should be compatible with the Comprehensive Master
Plan;
   (D)   The development standards should be compatible with those which apply
to development within the city. The extent to which the development standards
exceed those which apply to development within the city should be considered;
   (E)   The proposed schedule for annexation of the project should be
reasonable. If the project is to be developed in phases, the annexation
schedule should be linked to the phasing of development;
   (F)   The application should demonstrate that adequate infrastructure and
services will be available and provided to the project. If any city services
are proposed to be provided to the development prior to full-purpose annexation
by the city, the method by which residents and uses in the development will
contribute fairly and adequately to the cost of the services should be
reasonable and feasible;
   (G)   The methods of financing the cost of developing the project, including
infrastructure that will serve the project, are reasonable and feasible; and
   (H)   The proposed development should complement existing businesses or
commercial or industrial uses within the city.
(Ord. 2013-01-22, passed 1-22-2013)
§ 156.05 LAND USE PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose. The purposes of the Land Use Plan for a development agreement
are to clearly depict the locations of each of the land use districts/
categories proposed within the project, and to define prospective zoning
district boundaries for use when the project is annexed by the city.
   (B)   Consistency of development applications with Land Use Plan. All
applications for development connected with the project must be consistent with
the Land Use Plan, as it may be amended in accordance with the development
agreement.
   (C)   Zoning upon annexation. Following annexation of the project by the
city, the zoning classifications for the property shall be substantially
similar to those designated in the development agreement.
(Ord. 2013-01-22, passed 1-22-2013)
§ 156.06 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Contents. A development agreement will include, at a minimum, the
following, and will be subject to approval by the City Attorney:
      (1)   A legal description of all tracts of land included in the project;
      (2)   The Land Use Plan for the project as approved by the City Council
in connection with final approval of the development agreement;
      (3)   A description of the infrastructure to be constructed to serve the
project;
      (4)   The preliminary schedule for development of the project, including
a general description of any phasing under which the project will be developed,
and a requirement that the developer notify the city of changes to the schedule
or phasing for the project;
      (5)   A complete description of all development standards that will apply
to the project. At a minimum, these standards will include the following:
         (a)   In table form, the land use districts or categories to be
included in the project, the uses permitted by right in each district or
category, and the uses permitted conditionally in each category;
         (b)   In table form, the area, width, depth, setbacks, building
height, and lot coverage minimums/limitations for lots in each proposed land
use district or category; and
         (c)   A detailed description of any modifications to city standards
for the design and construction of infrastructure.
      (6)   A description of any development procedures to be used by the city
for the project which differ from those which apply to development within the
city. If these procedures include the process by which the Land Use Plan or the
table of permitted uses may be amended, a provision will be included that
significant amendments to the Land Use Plan or the table of permitted uses will
be subject to approval by the City Council after a public hearing;
      (7)   A schedule for full-purpose annexation of the property by the city,
and the express consent of the property owner to annexation of the project. The
schedule should be phased if the project is to be developed in phases;
      (8)   A description of any areas that will be annexed by the city for
limited purposes, the property owner’s consent to the annexation, and a
schedule for the annexation (if not authorized on the effective date of the
development agreement);
      (9)   The term of the agreement and provisions for extension, if any;
      (10)   A description of the extent to which city development regulations
are vested under the agreement;
      (11)   If the project involves the creation of a special district, a
description of the type of district and the purposes for the district, a
description of how the creation of the district will be coordinated with
activities under the development agreement, and a description of the services
the district will provide to the project;
      (12)   Provisions for enforcement of the agreement by the city; and
      (13)   Provisions assuring that the agreement will bind successors-in-
interest to the property owner.
   (B)   Recording. The City Administrator will ensure that the agreement, or a
memorandum of the agreement, is recorded in the official records for each
county in which any of the land comprising the project is located.
(Ord. 2013-01-22, passed 1-22-2013)
CHAPTER 157: PROTECTION OF THE NIGHT SKY
Section
   
157.01   Applicability
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   General lighting standards
   
157.04   Specific lighting standards
   
157.05   Public safety and actionable nuisances
   
157.06   Exemptions
   
157.07   Materials and methods of installation
   
157.08   Compliance and enforcement
   
157.09   Variance
   
157.10   Special exception permit
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under Tex. Loc.
Gov’t Code §§ 51.012 and 217.002, all outdoor lighting fixtures installed on
private and public property within the corporate limits of the city shall be
required to comply with this chapter. All existing outdoor lighting that was
legally installed and operating prior to the adoption of the ordinance but is
not in conformance with this chapter on the date of its adoption shall be
brought into conformance with this chapter not later than two years, 730 days,
from the date of its adoption.
   (B)   In accordance with the authority granted the city under Tex. Loc.
Gov’t Code § 216.902, Outdoor Signs in Municipality’s Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction shall comply with the requirements of this chapter regarding
lighting of signage.
   (C)   In accordance with the authority granted the city under Tex. Loc.
Gov’t Code § 43.002(c)(4), all outdoor lighting that is not in conformance with
this chapter on that is subsequently brought into the city limits after the
effective date of this ordinance shall be brought into conformance with this
chapter not later than two years, 730 days, from the effective date of the
annexation.
(Ord. 2022-08-04, passed 8-4-2022)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCENT LIGHTING. Lighting used to emphasize or draw attention to a special
object or building.
   AMORTIZATION. The process of allocating the cost of an asset over a period
of time.
   B-U-G RATING. A luminaire classification system with ratings for backlight
(B), uplight (U), and glare (G).
   BULB. A light-emitting device or a structure containing a light source. This
includes but is not limited to a lamp.
   CORRELATED COLOR TEMPERATURE (CCT). The specification of the color
appearance of light emitted by a lamp, relating its color to the color of light
from a reference blackbody source when heated to a particular temperature,
measured in degrees Kelvin (K).
   DIFFUSER. A translucent enclosure which surrounds or covers a light source
and through which can be seen no semblance of the image of the light source.
   DIFFUSING LENS. A translucent enclosure which surrounds a light source and
through which there can be seen no semblance of an image of the light source.
To provide a sufficiently wide distribution of light, a lens meeting this
definition shall have a minimum cross-section, as seen from any angle, of not
less than 0.125 square inch per lumen of enclosed light source emission.
   DROP LENS or SAG LENS FIXTURE. A fixture, typically seen on older
streetlights or parking lot lights, where the lens extends below the lowest
opaque part of the fixture such that light is scattered above the horizontal
plane.
   EFFICACY. As an engineering term, the emission of light by a light source
expressed in lumens per watt. In the absence of manufacturers’ ratings, or at
the discretion of the city, the efficacy and light emission of lamps shall be
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Common tungsten incandescent: 12 lumens per watt;
      (2)   Halogen incandescent: 18 lumens per watt;
      (3)   Metal halide: 82 lumens per watt;
      (4)   High pressure sodium: 82 lumens per watt;
      (5)   Fluorescent tubes: 75 lumens per watt; and
      (6)   LED: 50-150 lumens per watt.
   FIXTURE. An outdoor lighting assembly containing one or more lamps and
including any lenses, reflectors, and shields designed to direct the light in a
defined manner.
   FOOTCANDLE. As an engineering term, a unit of light intensity equal to one
lumen per square foot, which applies to the brightness of light on a surface or
at a point in space.
   FULLY-SHIELDED FIXTURE (may also be known as a FULL HORIZONTAL CUT-OFF
FIXTURE). Fixtures, as installed, that are designed or shielded in such a
manner that all light rays emitted by the fixture, either directly from the
lamps or indirectly from the fixture, are projected below a horizontal plane
running through the lowest point on the fixture where the light is emitted.
   GLARE. The effect of light shining directly in the eyes such as occurs when
there is a line of sight to the light source.
   INITIAL LUMENS. The manufacturer-specified number of lumens of light
generated by a lamp at the beginning of its service lifetime, not accounting
for losses associated with lamp age.
   LAMP. A light-emitting device or a structure containing a light source. This
includes but is not limited to a bulb.
   LED. Light emitting diode.
   LIGHT POLLUTION. Any adverse effect of artificial light including, but not
limited to sky glow, light trespass, and glare. LIGHT POLLUTION washes out
starlight in the night sky, disrupts ecosystems, wastes energy, compromises
citizen safety and security, and is documented to have adverse effects on human
health.
   LIGHT SOURCE. Any device or element which emits light.
   LIGHT STRING. Any number of bulbs connected with wire in a linear or two-
dimensional array, not contained in the structure of a fixture, used either for
illumination or decoration, and supported in any manner.
   LIGHT TRESPASS. Any horizontal or vertical illumination on a property from
light sources on another property that exceeds 0.1 footcandles on a residential
district or 0.5 footcandles on a nonresidential district. The measurement shall
be made 4 feet above the ground at a point four feet inside the property line.
Additionally, if the source of the illumination, usually a light bulb, is
visible beyond the property boundary, light trespass has occurred.
   LIGHTING. Any source of light that does not include natural light emitted
from celestial objects, fire, or other natural forms of illumination. The term
includes any type of lighting, fixed or movable, designed or used for outdoor
illumination of buildings or homes, including lighting for billboards,
streetlights, canopies, gasoline station islands, searchlights used for
advertising purposes, externally or internally illuminated on- or off-premises
advertising signs, and area-type lighting. The term includes luminous elements
or lighting attached to structures, poles, the earth, or any other location.
   LIGHTING INSTALLATION. All outdoor lighting fixtures and light sources on a
property.
   LINE OF SIGHT. As it applies to the visibility of a light source, a straight
unobstructed line from any point on a property four feet or more above the
ground to a light source on another property.
   LUMEN. As an engineering term, a unit of light flux, which applies to the
amount of light emitted by a lamp.
   LUMENS PER ACRE. The total number of initial lumens produced by all lamps
utilized in outdoor lighting on a property divided by the number of acres, or
part of an acre, with outdoor illumination on the property.
   LUMINAIRE. The complete lighting unit (fixture), consisting of a lamp, or
lamp and ballast(s) (when applicable), together with the parts designed to
distribute the light (reflector, lens, diffuser), to position and protect the
lamps, and to connect the lamps to the power supply.
   NONCONFORMING LIGHTING. Outdoor lighting fixtures that do not conform to the
requirements of this chapter after the date of its adoption.
   NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any property residing wholly within Commercial and
Industrial Zoning Districts C1, C2, I1, or any property wholly or partially
within a Mixed Use Zoning District with the property line greater than 50 feet
from the nearest outer structural wall of a single- or two-family dwelling.
   OUTDOOR LIGHTING. Temporary or permanent lighting that is installed,
located, or used in such a manner as to cause light rays to shine outdoors.
Except as exempted herein, non-residential lighting fixtures that are installed
indoors that cause light to shine outdoors are considered outdoor lighting for
the purposes of this chapter.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any property residing wholly or partially within
Residential Zoning Districts R1, R1a, R2, R3, and R4 or any property wholly or
partially within a Mixed Use Zoning District with the property line less than
50 feet from the nearest outer structural wall of a single- or two-family
dwelling.
   SKY GLOW. The brightening of the nighttime sky that results from scattering
and reflection of artificial light by moisture and dust particles in the
atmosphere. SKY GLOW is caused by light escaping above the horizontal plane to
the detriment of the night sky.
   SPECULAR REFLECTOR. A reflector which has a mirror-like surface that
reflects an image (no matter how imperfect or distorted) of a light source.
(Ord. 2022-08-04, passed 8-4-2022)
§ 157.03 GENERAL LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lighting design. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to provide the
minimum lighting necessary to ensure adequate safety, visibility, and comfort,
and not create or cause objectionable glare or light trespass as viewed from
other properties and/or from public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Shielding requirement. Except as otherwise specified in this chapter,
outdoor lighting, regardless of lumen output, shall be fully shielded and aimed
downward so as to minimize glare and prevent light pollution. All outdoor
lighting fixtures shall be full cut-off fixtures. No outdoor lighting fixture
shall permit light to shine above the horizontal plane to pollute the night sky
or off the property on which it is installed.
   (C)   Light trespass. Except as otherwise specified in this chapter, light
trespass beyond property boundaries shall be deemed a nuisance and in non-
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   General. The source of the light (the bulb, light emitting diode,
or any other light emitting device), a refractive or non-refractive lens cover,
or reflector shall not be visible in a direct line of sight from any other
property or public right-of-way;
      (2)   Porchlights and sconces. Residential porchlights and wall sconces
may be unshielded and light from such fixture may be visible from beyond the
property line provided the fixture has a medium to dark toned, semi-opaque
diffuser installed to reduce glare or the fixture has a flat-bottomed LED light
emitter or other flat-bottomed light source that prevents light from shining
off the property or upward into the night sky. In no case shall the bulb, other
luminous element, reflective surface, or lens cover be visible from off the
property.
   (D)   Correlated color temperature. All outdoor lighting, regardless of
type, except as exempted herein, shall have a correlated color temperature
(CCT) not to exceed 3000 degrees Kelvin as recommended by the American Medical
Association in order to minimize the adverse effects on human health of bluish-
white light at higher CCTs. A CCT of 2,700 degrees Kelvin or lower (yellowish,
warm light) is preferred for all lighting.
   (E)   Lumen limitations.
      (1)   Nonresidential property. To prevent over-lighting, total outdoor
light output on any nonresidential property shall not exceed 100,000 initial
lumens per acre in any contiguous illuminated area. This lumen per acre
limitation is an upper limit, not a design goal. Illumination design should be
at the lowest levels that meet the reasonable requirements of the task.
Governmental-owned streetlights used for illumination of public rights-of-way
are exempted from the lumen cap requirement.
      (2)   Residential property. Total outdoor light output (excluding
governmental owned streetlights used for illumination of public rights-of-way)
on any residential property shall not exceed 20,000 lumens per acre in any
contiguous illuminated area.
      (3)   Rebuttable presumption. The city may cite a property owner for a
violation of lumen limitation requirements under a rebuttable presumption that
a violation exists unless contested and proven otherwise by the owner of the
property or their designated agent. The property owner or their designated
agent shall be responsible for calculating the total number of lumens per acre
on the property and for informing the city of the methodology used in the
calculations. The city shall determine if the calculations are reasonable. In
the event of disagreement, the owner of the property may hire a professional
lighting consultant to substantiate the actual number of lumens per net acre.
   (F)   Fixture limitations. The maximum illumination on any outdoor surface
or object, including signs, from all fixtures or light sources, whether
installed before or after the effective date of this chapter, including
lighting of externally illuminated and internally illuminated signs, shall not
exceed:
      (1)   Nonresidential property. Eighteen footcandles where a business
exists and is open; or three footcandles in where a business is closed or does
not exist.
      (2)   Residential property. Six footcandles.
      (3)   Rebuttable presumption. The city may cite a property owner for a
violation of fixture limitation requirements under a rebuttable presumption
that a violation exists unless contested and proven otherwise by the owner of
the property or their designated agent. The property owner or their designated
agent shall be responsible for measuring the footcandles and for informing the
city of the methodology used in the calculations. The city shall determine if
the calculations are reasonable. In the event of disagreement, the owner of the
property may hire a professional lighting consultant to substantiate the actual
footcandles.
   (G)   Outdoor recreational facilities. Lighting for playing fields, playing
courts, swimming pools, skateboard parks, rodeo arenas, and similar
recreational facilities, whether public or private, are exempt from the lumens
per net acre limit. However, all such facilities whether public or private
shall comply with the requirements of State of Texas Health and Safety Code.
(Ord. 2022-08-04, passed 8-4-2022)
§ 157.04 SPECIFIC LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Illumination of signage.
      (1)   Externally-illuminated signage.
         (a)   All lighting of externally-illuminated outdoor signs shall be
shielded so as to minimize glare for passing motorists, bicyclists, or
pedestrians;
         (b)   All lighting of externally-illuminated outdoor signs (whether
free-standing or building- mounted, on-premise or off-premise) shall be
directed downward toward the sign.
      (2)   Internally-illuminated signage.
         (a)   Background and letters. Internally-illuminated outdoor signs
(whether free-standing or building-mounted, on-premise or off-premise) shall be
constructed in such a way as to minimize the amount of unshielded light
released off the property or into the night sky, and with an opaque background
and translucent letters and symbols or with a dark colored background and
lighter letters and symbols.
            1.   No more than 33% of such signage (primarily lettering) may be
white or other light color.
            2.   Internally-illuminated signs with predominantly white or other
light-colored backgrounds are specifically prohibited.
            3.   Reverse channel signage consisting of opaque letters and
symbols, typically mounted several inches in front of an opaque surface such as
a wall and illuminated by bulbs or other light emitters embedded within the
letters or symbols themselves such that the letters and symbols stand out in
front of the reflected light are permissible and encouraged.
         (b)   Logos. Nonconforming internally-illuminated signs that are part
of a registered logo for a business or organization with operations in the city
and at least one other location are allowed provided there is not another
version of the logo sign that would, if installed, be compliant with the other
provisions of this chapter.
            1.   Bulbs, LEDs, or other light emitters within signs so exempted
shall be the lowest intensity needed for the sign to be recognizable for up to
one-half mile from its location. The total lumens emitted from the logo sign
shall count against the allowed lumens per acre limitation for the property.
            2.   A company’s decision to change a conforming logo that is
installed on the company’s facility or signage to one that is nonconforming
shall not be sufficient justification to change the displayed logo.
         (c)   Changeable copy signs. Unshielded, internally-illuminated signs
with changeable copy requiring manual change at the physical location of the
sign are allowed provided such signs otherwise conform to the city’s signage
ordinance (
Chapter 152).
            1.   Such signs may have an off-white or other light-colored
background such that the changeable letters or symbols are clearly visible, but
the use of a white background is specifically prohibited.
            2.   Such signs shall use the minimum amount of light necessary to
ensure the changeable letters or symbols are clearly readable from a distance
of 100 feet.
            3.   The total lumens emitted from the sign shall count against the
allowed lumens per net acre cap for the property.
         (d)   Electronic changeable copy signs. Non-governmental electronic
changeable copy or changeable image signs or displays that are similar in
design to large televisions or computer monitors are specifically prohibited
except as further noted in this chapter.
         (e)   Electronic pricing signs. Unshielded electronic signs at service
stations within the city limits displaying fuel prices are prohibited until
such time as all outdoor lighting on the property is brought into compliance
with the lumens per acre limitation requirements of this chapter.
         (f)   Open for business signs. Unshielded electronic or neon signs
displaying messages such as “Open” are allowed on the premise of the business
provided such signs otherwise conform to the city’s signage ordinance.
         (g)   Internally-illuminated panels. Internally-illuminated panels
such as are commonly seen on the sides of service station canopies, for
purposes of this chapter, shall be considered signage. Such panels may be
unshielded provided the intensity of the illumination does not cause glare for
motorists, bicyclists, or pedestrians. Panels shall not be of a color that is
white, off-white, pale yellow, or other pale, light hued color. The total
lumens emitted by the panels shall count against the allowed lumens per acre
limitation for the property.
      (3)   Lighting curfew for signage. Illumination of all on-premise outdoor
advertising signage, both externally and internally-illuminated, shall be
turned off by the later of closing time or 10:00 p.m., provided, however, that
such signs may be turned back on prior to sunrise, but no more than one hour
prior to opening.
      (4)   Neon lighting. Because it is virtually impossible to shield, the
city discourages the use of neon lighting or lighting produced by other gases
in similar tubes or lighting that is similar in effect such as LEDs in an
elongated plastic tube or covering. However, such lighting is permitted
provided it otherwise conforms to the city’s signage ordinance.
         (a)   Neon lighting or its equivalent in colors of white, pale yellow,
or similar pale, light hued color is prohibited.
         (b)   All fixtures using neon lighting or its equivalent shall be of
an intensity that will minimize glare for motorists, bicyclists, or
pedestrians; and, to the greatest extent possible, shall be mounted in such a
way as to limit light from trespassing off the property or from escaping above
the horizontal plane to pollute the night sky.
         (c)   The lumens produced by neon lighting shall count towards the
total lumen cap for the property.
   (B)   Canopies.
      (1)   Light trespass. Because of their common proximity to public rights-
of-way, lighting of canopies typical of service stations and drive-through
facilities may produce light emissions that trespasses onto public rights-of-
way provided that no light is allowed to escape above the horizontal plane to
pollute the night sky and that glare for motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians
is minimized. Light trespass onto private property is prohibited.
      (2)   Design. It is strongly encouraged that all such canopy lighting
fixtures be embedded within the canopy itself with no need of further
shielding.
      (3)   Intensity. Canopy lighting shall be of an intensity that provides
safe and efficient use of the facility but shall not be so bright as to cause
glare to the extent that it is a safety hazard for passing motorists,
bicyclists, or pedestrians.
      (4)   Correlated color temperature. All canopy lighting shall have a
correlated color temperature of 3,000 degrees Kelvin or less.
      (5)   Over-lighting. Over-lighting of canopy areas for purposes of
advertising is specifically prohibited.
   (C)   Streetlights.
      (1)   Design. New streetlights installed on city rights-of-way or Texas
Department of Transportation rights-of-way in the city limits shall be full
cut-off fixtures and designed, mounted, and/or shielded so as to direct the
light onto the public right-of-way and not onto private property.
      (2)   Adaptive controls. New city-owned street lighting installed after
the effective date of this chapter, other than streetlights at the intersection
of roadways, to the greatest extent possible, shall utilize adaptive controls
such as half-night photocells or timers to turn the streetlights off halfway
between dusk and dawn or timers that reduce or eliminate light emitted after a
set time. Emerging technology such as passive infrared sensors that permit
streetlights to be off except when movement is detected in the area is
encouraged.
      (3)   Correlated color temperature. To the extent government-owned
streetlights are repaired or replaced with LED or other light emitting
elements, the light produced by the LEDs or other element shall not exceed
3,000 degrees Kelvin.
      (4)   Repair and replacement. Notwithstanding other provisions of this
chapter, existing city-owned streetlights or streetlights owned by other
entities but installed on city rights-of-way or Texas Department of
Transportation rights-of way in the city limits shall be brought into
compliance in the normal course of streetlight repair and replacement.
   (D)   Outdoor recreation.
      (1)   Design and shielding. Lighting for all playing fields, playing
courts, swimming pools, skateboard parks, rodeo arenas, and similar
recreational facilities, installed or replaced on public or private property
after the effective date of this chapter shall be in compliance with the
requirements of the State of Texas Health and Safety Code in regard to design
and shielding requirements for outdoor lighting on any facility constructed in
whole or in part constructed with state funds. Such lighting shall utilize full
cut-off fixtures and be aimed directly at the playing surface in such a manner
as to minimize glare, limit light trespass off the property, and prevent light
from being emitted above the horizontal plane to pollute the night sky.
      (2)   Correlated color temperature. Lighting of outdoor recreational
facilities owned or operated by a governmental entity or a non-profit
association or organization are exempt from correlated color temperature
requirements. However, the city encourages such lighting to be 3,000 degrees
Kelvin or less if at all consistent with the requirements of the recreational
facility.
      (3)   Lighting curfew. Lighting for outdoor recreational facilities on
public or private property is prohibited after 10:00 p.m. unless such lighting
is needed to complete a specific activity or event, organized by a city-
recognized entity, already in progress that began before 9:00 p.m.
   (E)   Accent lighting.
      (1)   Design. Lighting used to emphasize features or drive attention to a
structure, landscape, and foliage is allowed provided that no more than 1800
lumens are directed at any one side of a structure or illuminate an area of
landscaping or foliage. It is strongly preferred that accent lighting be
directed downward and away from the sky or adjacent properties.
      (2)   Shielding. All accent lighting shall be shielded to curtail glare
for passing motorists, bicyclists, or pedestrians and prevent light trespass
off property.
   (F)   String lights and rope lights.
      (1)   Design. The year-round use of string lights or rope lights for
illumination or decoration is discouraged but not prohibited. Clear or colored
string lights or rope lights or other similar illumination displays shall not
create excessive glare for motorists, bicyclists, pedestrians, or neighbors.
      (2)   Festoon or bistro-type string lights, either clear or colored, used
as outdoor illumination or decoration may be unshielded provided they comply
with the following requirements:
         (a)   The lights shall produce not more than 125 lumens per bulb nor
produce more than 125 lumens per linear foot of line or square foot of space.
         (b)   The lights shall have a correlated color temperature of not more
than 2,700 degrees Kelvin (a warm, yellowish light).
         (c)   Festoon or bistro-type string lights shall not be located within
three feet of a reflective surface such as a light colored or reflective metal
wall.
         (d)   Unshielded festoon or bistro-type string lights that are
illuminated for more than two nights in any given month shall not be visible
from any residential property within 50 feet of the installed lights without
the written approval of neighbors residing within the 50-foot area. Such
approvals shall be signed, dated, and filed with the city’s Code Officer.
Approvals become null and void if the signatory ceases to reside at the
property or withdraws the approval.
   (G)   Flagpoles.
      (1)   While downward lighting is preferred, upward lighting of flagpoles
with a height equal to or less than 20 feet above the ground level is permitted
provided only a single spotlight is used per flagpole whose maximum initial
lumen output does not exceed 75 lumens per foot of height of the flagpole as
measured from the spotlight to the top of the pole. Spotlights shall be
shielded or have diffusers installed so as to limit light trespass off the
property and minimize glare for passing motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians.
      (2)   Flagpoles with a height greater than 20 feet above ground level
shall be illuminated from above with one or more light fixtures not to exceed
800 initial lumens in total, attached to the top of the flagpole or mounted
above the top of the flagpole on a structure within 15 feet of the flagpole.
Downward shining lights shall be shielded or have diffusers installed to limit
light trespass off the property and minimize glare for passing motorists,
bicyclists, and pedestrians.
      (3)   If a flag of the United States is displayed during the hours of
darkness, it should be illuminated as recommended in the Federal Flag Code.
   (H)   Motion sensors. The city encourages the use of motion-activated
outdoor lighting to reduce light pollution, save energy, and alert neighbors
and public safety authorities of activity in the area of the sensor. However,
notwithstanding the fact that most motion sensor-controlled fixtures can be
adjusted to remain on for a limited period of time, all fixtures controlled by
motion sensors shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Other prohibitions. The following are specifically prohibited except
as further noted:
      (1)   Mercury vapor fixtures. The installation of any mercury vapor,
mercury arc, or mercury discharge fixture or lamp of any size or kind for use
as outdoor lighting is prohibited.
      (2)   Barn lights. The installation of any fixture with a translucent
refracting lens typical of old style “barn light” fixtures for use as outdoor
lighting is prohibited unless the fixture includes a full opaque shield instead
of the standard translucent refracting lens and otherwise complies with the
shielding requirements of this chapter. The standard refracting lens is allowed
only if it is painted or otherwise rendered substantially opaque.
      (3)   Wall packs. The installation of any wall pack style fixture for use
as outdoor lighting is prohibited unless the fixture complies with the
shielding requirements of this chapter, i.e., is a full cut-off fixture,
shielded as necessary such that illumination is confined to the property on
which the fixture is located.
      (4)   Drop lenses. The installation of any publicly-owned or privately-
owned streetlight, area light, or other fixture with an unshielded drop lens or
sag lens is prohibited.
      (5)   Searchlights and lasers. The operation of searchlights or aerial
laser lights used for advertising purposes is prohibited.
(Ord. 2022-08-04, passed 8-4-2022)
§ 157.05 PUBLIC SAFETY AND ACTIONABLE NUISANCES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the city may require
the modification, removal, or limited operation of outdoor lighting fixtures
found to be a public safety hazard or a public or private nuisance according to
the following criteria:
   (A)   Criteria for finding outdoor illumination to be a public safety
hazard.
      (1)   Light trespass and glare is sufficiently intense or contrasts
excessively with surrounding illumination, regardless of the intensity of the
surrounding illumination, in a manner to cause impairment of visual performance
or to distract from or impair the safe operation of a vehicle; or
      (2)   Light trespass or glare exists that impairs a person’s visual
performance or ability to avoid obstacles in his or her path.
   (B)   Criteria for finding outdoor illumination to be a public nuisance
affecting the community as a whole.
      (1)   Light escapes above the horizontal plane to pollute the night sky
enjoyed by all citizens or visitors; or
      (2)   Glare onto public rights-of-way or public spaces such as parks is
of sufficient intensity as to be annoying to or impair the visual acuity of a
person of average sensibilities using the right-of-way.
   (C)   Criteria for finding outdoor illumination to be a private nuisance
affecting an individual citizen or property owner.
      (1)   Light trespass or glare exists that deprives an owner or occupant
of usual and reasonable use and enjoyment of a private property; or
      (2)   Light trespass or glare exists that causes visual discomfort or
impairment of visual performance in a manner that deprives any citizen of
average sensibilities from the safe use of a private property.
(Ord. 2022-08-04, passed 8-4-2022)
§ 157.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   In addition to the exceptions specified elsewhere in this chapter, the
following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter except as further
noted:
   (A)   Traffic lighting. Publicly maintained traffic control devices.
   (B)   Emergency lighting. Temporary emergency lighting (fire, police, repair
crews).
   (C)   TxDOT lighting. Lighting fixtures and illumination requirements
imposed by the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) within TxDOT’s right
of way.
   (D)   Vehicle lighting. Lighting required by law to be installed on motor
vehicles.
   (E)   Construction lighting. Temporary construction lighting provided
workers are present and actively engaged in the construction project and the
lights are positioned so they do not shine in the eyes of passing motorists,
bicyclists, or pedestrians so as to create a safety hazard.
   (F)   Navigation lighting. Navigation lights such as aircraft warning
beacons on water towers, electrical and wireless transmission towers, and the
like. However, notwithstanding terms as may be set forth in licensing
agreements with the owners/operators of such lights, a white or light colored,
flashing strobe light that is visible after sunset shall be deemed non-
compliant unless required by state or federal government regulation.
   (G)   Swimming pool lighting. Underwater lights such as are commonly
installed in swimming pools or other water features are exempt.
   (H)   Performance lighting. Temporary lighting for outdoor theatrical or
musical productions, outdoor movies, or on-the-scene nighttime television
broadcasts such as television news are exempt.
   (I)   Fossil fuel lighting. Outdoor lighting for which light is produced
directly by the combustion of fossil fuels such as outdoor fire pits and
ornamental items such as “tiki lamps” are exempt.
   (J)   Water and wastewater treatment facilities. Outdoor lighting at water
treatment plant(s) and wastewater treatment plant(s) that is installed and
functioning on August 4, 2022 is exempt. All fixtures replaced during the
normal course of maintenance or in conjunction with renovations or replacement
of the facilities shall be fully compliant with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-08-04, passed 8-4-2022)
§ 157.07 MATERIALS AND METHODS OF INSTALLATION.
   This chapter is not intended to prohibit the use of any design, material, or
method of prescribed installation not specifically proscribed by this chapter,
provided such alternative meets the legislative intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-08-04, passed 8-4-2022)
§ 157.08 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   All lighting installations commenced in accordance with this chapter
must be in compliance with the International Building Code, as adopted by the
City Council.
   (B)   Submission of plans and evidence of compliance. All building permit
applications must include an outdoor lighting plan which includes the following
information:
      (1)   The location of all existing and proposed light fixtures (may be
included on site plan).
      (2)   A lumen calculation sheet to determine lumens per net acre. It must
include the square footage of the total area to be illuminated, the light
fixture catalog descriptions or ordering number, lamp types (i.e.,
incandescent, low pressure sodium, compact fluorescent, LED, and the like), the
Kelvin rating for the lamp, the B-U-G rating for the selected fixture (if
available); the number of fixtures or lamps (use the same unit corresponding to
the unit used to determine how many lumens are produced), fixture or lamp
initial lumens, the location from the edge of a canopy (if applicable), and
mounting height of all existing and proposed lamps.
      (3)   Manufacturer’s specification sheets for all existing and proposed
light fixtures.
      (4)   Elevations with notes where light fixtures are to be installed
indoors which may be seen from the exterior.
      (5)   Site plan with specific measurements in feet for the area to be
illuminated. A scale notation is not sufficient.
      (6)   Acknowledgment that the applicant has received notification of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The city Building Official or other individual designated by the City
Council shall review all building permits to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
   (D)   Verification that a residential or non-residential building project
requiring a building permit application has complied with the provisions of
this chapter shall occur during the final electrical inspection by the city’s
designated Building Inspector and verified by the city’s Building Official or
other individual designated by the City Council.
   (E)   Upon receipt of residential building permit applications, city staff
shall provide the homebuilder and/or applicant with educational materials about
this chapter including a copy of this chapter. The city’s submission of
educational materials shall be prima facie evidence that the applicant has
received notification of the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   For the first 60 days after the enactment of this chapter, residential
building permit applicants may postpone the submission of the plans and
evidence of compliance defined in this section for a maximum of 30 business
days after the submission of their building permit application.
   (G)   Interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter shall
rest with the city’s Building Official or other individual as may be designated
by the City Council who is authorized to exercise reasonable judgement in its
enforcement consistent with achieving the overall purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   In considering possible violations of this chapter for residential
properties, the Building Official or other individual designated by the City
Council shall act only upon receipt of a complaint.
      (2)   The city’s Building Official or other individual designated by the
City Council is authorized to grant amortization extensions for residential and
non-residential lighting in the city limits and for lighting of signage in the
city’s ETJ in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Collaboration with the owners of noncompliant outdoor lighting is
encouraged to rectify violations and obviate the need for citations and other
actions by the city.
      (4)   Appeals of Building Official decisions or those made by another
individual designated by the City Council may be made to the Mayor. Further
appeals may be made to the City Council, which shall be the final authority.
   (H)   The City Administrator and City Secretary are authorized to promulgate
and keep current one or more interpretive documents to aid citizens, business
owners, builders, and electricians in the interpretation of and compliance with
this chapter. Such interpretive documents shall be educational only and shall
not constitute regulations, amendments, or exceptions to the provisions of this
chapter. All such documents shall be made available free of charge to
requesters. To the extent possible, such documents shall be posted on the
city’s web page. The city shall undertake other measures as required to educate
citizens and other interested parties about the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-08-04, passed 8-4-2022)
§ 157.09 VARIANCE.
   (A)   Requests for variances from the provisions of this chapter may be made
through the city’s Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   All such requests shall be fully documented and include a specific
justification as to why the request for variance is unique and why approval of
the variance would not set a precedent for other such requests.
   (C)   Applicants requesting a variance must demonstrate undue hardship
caused by unique circumstances of the property making it impossible to
literally comply with the standards of this chapter. Financial concerns alone
do not comprise a hardship under this chapter.
   (D)   In considering requests for variance, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall consider the following criteria:
      (1)   The degree to which compliance with this chapter will cause undue
hardship for the applicant; and
      (2)   The degree to which the requested variance will result in a non-
compliant fixture; and
      (3)   The amount of time the requested variance will be in effect before
the fixture comes into compliance with this chapter; and
      (4)   The degree to which approval of the variance would create
expectations for other such requests; and
      (5)   The effect the variance might have on efforts by the city to attain
and/or retain recognition as a Dark Sky Community or other similar
designations.
(Ord. 2022-08-04, passed 8-4-2022)
§ 157.10 SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Administrator and Mayor are authorized to direct the issue of
a temporary special exception permit waiving provisions of this chapter within
the parameters specified within this section.
   (B)   Applicants for such permits shall provide written justification
substantiating how compliance with specific provisions of this chapter would be
detrimental to the full intended use of a facility or area and specifying the
exact provisions of the chapter requested to be waived and the period of time
for which the special exception permit is required. For example, festivals,
carnivals, or fairs might be good candidates for issuance of a special
exception permit.
   (C)   The duration of a special exception permit for outdoor lighting shall
not exceed 15 contiguous calendar days.
   (D)   Applications for a special exception permit for outdoor lighting shall
be initiated with the city’s Building Official.
(Ord. 2022-08-04, passed 8-4-2022)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and punished by a fine as
provided for in the general penalty provision found in §
10.99. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2022-08-04, passed 8-4-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[RESERVED]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Statues
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS STATUTES
REFERENCES TO TEXAS ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CODE
 
Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code Reference Code Section
Ch. 106                                31.09
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS BUSINESS AND COMMERCE CODE
 
Tex. Business and Commerce Code Reference Code Section
Ch. 36                                    112.11
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS CRIMINAL PROCEDURE CODE
 
Tex. Criminal Procedure Code Reference Code Section
Art. 2.131—2.136                     30.05
Art. 102.011                           32.02
Art. 102.017                           32.03
Art. 102.0172                          32.03
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS FAMILY CODE
 
Tex. Family Code Reference Code Section
Ch. 31                     130.03
51.08                      130.99
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS FOOD ESTABLISHMENT RULES
 
T.A.C. Tex. Food Establishment Rule Code Section
229.169                             114.04
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS GOVERNMENT CODE
 
Tex. Gov't Code Reference Code Section
Ch. 311                   10.02
Ch. 411, Subchapter H     131.06
                          35.10;
                          35.11;
Ch. 551                   151.03;
                          155.040 —
                          155.043
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE
 
Tex. Health and Safety Code Reference Code Section
382.001 et seq.                       92.01
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS HUMAN RESOURCES CODE
 
Tex. Human Resources Code Reference Code Section
Ch. 42                              155.002
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS LOCAL GOVERNMENT CODE
Tex. Loc. Gov't Code Reference Code Section
Tex. Loc. Gov't Code Reference Code Section
22.010                         31.02
22.031                         31.01
22.037                         31.01
22.042                         31.01
                               31.02—
22.071                         31.08;
                               31.10
22.072                         31.02—
                               31.08
22.073                         31.02—
                               31.04
22.075                         31.02
22.076                         31.07
29.002 - 29.007                31.09
29.010                         31.09
Ch. 42                         154.002;
                               154.007
52.011                         32.05
Ch. 53                         10.01
54.001                         150.999
133.103                        32.03
203.023                        31.03;
                               31.04
203.025                        31.03;
                               31.04
203.041                        31.03
203.044                        31.03
203.045                        31.03
204.008                        31.03
205.007                        31.03
211.009                        155.039
211.011                        155.039
Ch. 212                        154.002
212.001                        154.007
212.004, Subchapter A          154.007
212.009                        154.024
212.172                        156.02
Ch. 214, Subchapter G          150.001
215.032                        112.03
215.033                        112.03
Ch. 216                        152.10
216.013                        152.10
Ch. 242                        154.002
243.001                        112.03
Ch. 245                        154.022
552.0025                       50.15;
                               51.09
Ch. 573                        154.020
Ch. 2007                       156.03
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS OCCUPATIONS CODE
 
Tex. Occupations Code Reference Code Section
Ch. 1001                        154.007
Ch. 1071                        154.007
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS PENAL CODE
 
Tex. Penal Code Reference Code Section
6.03                      10.99
Ch. 21                    112.08
Ch. 22                    112.08
Ch. 25                    112.08
Ch. 43                    112.08
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS REVISED CIVIL STATUTES
 
Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat. Reference Code Section
Art. 6701(d)                   91.04
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS TAX CODE
 
Tex. Tax Code Reference Code Section
11.253                  34.01
11.253b                 34.01
11.253j                 34.01
Ch. 23, Subchapter B    34.01
351.001                 34.03
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS TRANSPORTATION CODE
V.T.C.A. Tex. Transportation Code Code Section
V.T.C.A. Tex. Transportation Code Code Section
22.074                            31.09
547.104                           74.02
547.331                           114.03
547.703                           74.02;
                                  114.03
551.4041                          74.03
551.452                           74.04
Ch. 551A                          74.04
601.051                           74.03
Ch. 707                           31.09
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO TEXAS WATER CODE
 
Tex. Water Code Reference Code Section
16.315                    153.01
16.343                    154.049
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
1106-01       - -         90.01—
                          90.08
                          50.15;
2011-08-02    - -         50.99;
                          51.09;
                          51.99
                          110.01;
83-1003       3-28-1983   110.03—
                          110.07;
                          110.99
-             6-7-1983    72.01
83-1006       6-7-1983    72.01
105           7-3-1984    132.01;
                          132.99
-             2-5-1985    72.01
1108          8-6-1985    72.01
86-1006A      7-1-1986    72.01
86-1111       8-19-1986   70.01;
                          70.99
86-1112       11-6-1986   30.06
87-1116       9-14-1987   72.01
87-1117       9-15-1987   32.01
88-1119       1-19-1988   30.01
1120          4-19-1988   30.02
89-1114A      2-21-1989   30.03,
                          30.99
94-1203       5-3-1994    30.04
1122B         - -1996     32.02
-             8-6-2002    30.05
-             5-4-2004    112.01—
                          112.13
-             12-7-2004   91.01—
                          91.04
                          95.01 -
-             12-7-2004   95.13,
                          95.99
05-1122B      - -2005     32.03
06-2001       9-19-2006   33.01
                          92.01—
-             - -2007     92.08;
                          92.99
07-1123       2-20-2007   32.04
                          150.001—
07-231        10-16-2007  150.011;
                          150.999
07-234        11-20-2007  34.01
                          155.001—
                          155.005;
                          155.020—
                          155.023;
                          155.035—
                          155.045;
                          155.060—
                          155.062;
                          155.075—
08-347        - -2008     155.084;
                          155.095—
                          155.098;
                          155.110—
                          155.113;
                          155.125—
                          155.133;
                          155.145 ;
                          155.146 ;
                          155.999
                          151.01—
08-341        1-22-2008   151.15;
                          151.99
                          152.01—
08-342        3-4-2008    152.11;
                          152.13;
                          152.99
                          71.01—
08-349        5-6-2008    71.12;
                          71.99;
                          72.01
                          93.01—
                          93.10;
08-348        5-13-2008   93.25—
                          93.34;
                          93.99
08-352        6-10-2008   32.05
                          131.01—
08-353        6-17-2008   131.06;
                          131.99
                          154.001—
                          154.010;
                          154.020—
                          154.030;
                          154.040—
                          154.049;
                          154.060—
08-358        11-18-2008  154.062;
                          154.075—
                          154.078;
                          154.090—
                          154.093;
                          154.105—
                          154.118;
                          154.130—
                          154.132
09-367        8-4-2009    34.02
                          51.01—
09-381        12-14-2009  51.08;
                          51.99
-             - -2010     30.20—
                          30.30
2010-394      - -2010     10.99
                          50.01—
2010-398      - -2010     50.13;
                          50.99
2010-383      2-2-2010    32.06
2010-386      3-2-2010    30.04
-             4-6-2010    34.03;
                          34.99
2010-389      4-6-2010    30.01
                          91.15—
2010-395      7-20-2010   91.19;
                          91.99
                          91.30—
2011-01-01    2-1-2011    91.39;
                          91.99
2011-06-02    6-21-2011   32.06
                          50.09;
2011-07-01    7-5-2011    50.99;
                          51.03;
                          51.99
2011-09-02    9-20-2011   50.14;
                          50.99
2012-02-01    2-7-2012    Adopting Ordinance
                          32.04 ;
2012-03-01    3-6-2012    150.006 ;
                          154.130
                          153.01 —
                          153.12 ;
                          153.25 —
2012-04-04    5-15-2012   153.28 ;
                          153.40 —
                          153.44 ;
                          153.99
2013-01-22    1-22-2013   156.01 —
                          156.06
2013-06-18    6-18-2013   150.002
2013-08-06    8-6-2013    155.076 —
                          155.080
                          155.037 —
                          155.043 ;
                          155.060 ;
2013-08-20-1  8-20-2013   155.076 —
                          155.080 ;
                          155.082 ;
                          155.096; 
                          155.126
2013-08-20-2  8-20-2013   113.01 —
                          113.09
2013-10-22    10-22-2013  50.09 ;
                          51.03
2013-11-05    11-5-2013   32.06
2013-19-11    11-19-2013  35.11;
                          93.03
2014-1504     4-15-2014   111.01 —
                          111.04
2014-23-09-02 9-23-2014   50.13
2014-23-09-03 9-23-2014   51.03
2015-02-17-04 2-17-2015   155.098 ; 
                          155.113
2015-12-15    12-15-2015  154.020
                          130.01—
2016-03-05-01 5-3-2016    130.05 ; 
                          130.99
2016-04-05-01 4-5-2016    51.03
2016-06-07    6-7-2016    155.002 ; 
                          155.096
                          155.002 ; 
                          155.060 ; 
2016-08-02    8-2-2016    155.061 ; 
                          155.096 ; 
                          155.097 ; 
                          155.127
                          114.01—
2016-1004     10-4-2016   114.06;
                          114.99
2016-1206     12-6-2016   152.09
                          91.50;
                          91.51;
2017-07-02    2-7-2017    91.53—
                          91.62;
                          91.99
2017-16-05    5-16-2017   73.01
2018-02-06    2-6-2018    51.03
2018-11-05    11-5-2018   31.01—
                          31.10
                          94.01,
2018-12-04-01 12-4-2018   94.02,
                          94.99
2019-05-21    5-21-2019   51.03
2019-07-02    7-2-2019    153.45
-             9-10-2019   91.20 -
                          91.24
2020-02-02-04 2-4-2020    51.01—
                          51.03
                          95.01;
2020-03-10    3-10-2020   95.03;
                          95.08;
                          95.12; 95.99
2020-04-07    4-7-2020    30.10 -
                          30.15
-             - -         91.20—
                          91.24
2021-01-12    1-12-2021   35.10
2021-01-19-01 1-19-2021   153.07
2021-02-02    2-2-2021    35.10
2021-08-03    8-3-2021    150.002
2021-11-02-01 11-2-2021   31.07;
                          31.10
                          157.01—
2022-08-04    8-4-2022    157.10;
                          157.99
                          74.01—
2022-08-18    8-18-2022   71.05;
                          74.99
                          155.076—
2022-10-06    10-6-2022   155.084;
                          155.110
2022-11-03    11-3-2022   91.05;
                          91.99
2023-01-05-01 1-5-2023    35.01;
                          35.02
2023-01-05-02 1-5-2023    35.10;
                          151.03
2023-01-05-03 1-5-2023    35.10
2023-01-05-04 1-5-2023    35.11
                          93.02;
2023-06-15    6-15-2023   93.03;
                          93.05—
                          93.07
2023-07-06    7-6-2023    70.02;
                          70.99
                          153.50—
2023-09-21    9-21-2023   153.53;
                          153.99
2023-09-21-01 9-21-2023   50.13;
                          51.03
2023-09-21-02 9-21-2023   34.04
2024-01-04    1-4-2024    150.006
                         
 
