CITY OF PALM VALLEY, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-5, passed 4-19-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2014-6
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF PALM VALLEY, TEXAS
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF PALM VALLEY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Palm
Valley are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Texas empower and
authorize the City of Palm Valley to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Palm Valley has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of Palm
Valley of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in
book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PALM VALLEY:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Palm Valley as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of the Ordinances of the City of Palm Valley,
Texas".
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles (See Exhibit A).
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, or shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of street nor other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approved by the City Council and the City Secretary is hereby authorized
and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the City
Secretary.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect and such Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, and approved
and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law have been
given.
Passed and adopted by the City Council of the City of Palm Valley, Texas, on
this 15th day of July, 2014.
                        City of Palm Valley
                        By: John M. Cutney /s/
                         John M. Cutney, Mayor
Attest:
Sylvia R. Trevino /s/
Sylvia R. Trevino, City Secretary
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering or tampering with code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Palm Valley, Texas,
shall be designated as the "Code of Palm Valley", and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BUILDING INSPECTOR. The official Building Inspector of the city, as well
as the City Secretary or any other person vested with the authority of BUILDING
INSPECTOR by the City Council.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Palm Valley,
Texas.
      CITY COUNCIL. Whenever the words COUNCIL, THE COUNCIL or THE CITY COUNCIL
are used, they shall mean the City Council of the City of Palm Valley, Texas.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act
to be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day
on which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in computing
the time, but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be
counted.
      COUNTY. Cameron County, Texas.
      HIGHWAY. Includes any street, alley, highway, avenue or public place or
square, bridges, viaducts, tunnels, underpasses, overpasses and causeways in
the city, dedicated or devoted to public use.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. Words purporting to give authority to three or more
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a
majority of officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise declared.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety, of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof and, as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real
property, as defined in this section.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular traffic.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curb, or the lateral line
of the roadway and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Texas.
      STREET. Includes any highway, alley, street, avenue or public place or
square, bridges, viaducts, underpasses, overpasses, tunnels and causeways in
the city, dedicated or devoted to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(2004 Code, § 1-103)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or", if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including, but not limited to, the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the municipality
or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for municipal officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to municipal
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing or otherwise relating to rates
to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating or otherwise relating
to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All the ordinances mentioned in division (A) above are hereby
recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set
out at length herein.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Tex. Local Gov’t Code § 54.001) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Tex. Local Gov’t Code §§ 552.001 et
seq.
§ 10.19 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in such code or ordinance the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code or any such ordinance shall be punished by:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $2,000 in all cases arising under municipal
ordinances that govern fire safety, zoning and public health and sanitation
other than vegetation and litter violations;
      (2)   A fine not to exceed $2,000, if a motor vehicle is used in illegal
dumping or an offense under the law or city ordinance violated by the illegal
dumping; and
      (3)   A fine not to exceed $500 in all other cases; provided, however,
that, no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the
same or a similar offense under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. In the event that any such violation is
designated as a nuisance under the provisions of this code, such nuisance may
be summarily abated by the City Council or the Chief of Police or their
assigns.
Statutory reference:
   Civil penalties for ordinance violations, see Tex. Local Gov’t Code § 54.017
   Municipal penalties, see Tex. Local Gov’t Code § 54.001
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   PUBLIC RECORDS; MANAGEMENT
      
32.   CITY POLICIES AND FEES
      
33.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   City organization, powers and duties
   
30.02   Designation of city
   
30.03   Official paper for publication of notice
   
30.04   Mayor and Council member; elections
   
30.05   Municipal Judge
   
30.06   Fiscal year
§ 30.01 CITY ORGANIZATION, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Pursuant to authority conferred by Tex. Local Gov’t Code § 51.052, the city
hereby adopts the powers of a Type A general law municipality and the city
shall hereafter possess and be authorized to exercise all powers and authority
conferred by the laws of the state upon Type A general law municipalities.
(2004 Code, § 2-101) (Ord. 96-4, passed 8-13-1996)
§ 30.02 DESIGNATION OF CITY.
   The Municipality of Palm Valley shall be known as the "City of Palm Valley,
Texas".
(2004 Code, § 2-102) (Ord. 85-6, passed 8-20-1985)
§ 30.03 OFFICIAL PAPER FOR PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.
   The Valley Morning Star is hereby designated as the official paper for
publication of legal notices required to be published under the laws of the
state.
(2004 Code, § 2-103)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to designate, see Tex. Local Gov’t Code § 52.004
§ 30.04 MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBER; ELECTIONS.
   (A)   A Mayor and five Council members will be elected at large.
   (B)   The Mayor and Council members shall serve two-year terms and the terms
shall be staggered with the Mayor and two Council members standing for election
in one year and the other three Council members standing for election in the
following year.
   (C)   (1)   Council members shall be assigned place numbers 1 through 5.
Place 1, Place 2 and Place 4 are elected in even-numbered years. Place 3 and
Place 5 are elected in odd-numbered years.
      (2)   When an incumbent Council member’s term of office expires, any
candidate for the office of Council member shall file an application for a
specific place on the City Council.
      (3)   The ballot for an election under the place system shall show each
office of Council member as a separate office designated by place number.
(2004 Code, § 2-104) (Ord. 81-2, passed 2-4-1981; Ord. 2021-12, passed 11-19-
2021)
§ 30.05 MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (A)   There shall be appointed by the City Council a Judge of the Municipal
Court of the city, which Judge shall be appointed by an affirmative vote of the
Council.
(2004 Code, § 2-105)
   (B)   In the event the Judge for the Municipal Court of the city has been
appointed and he or she is temporarily absent from the corporate limits of the
city, or ill or otherwise unable to perform his or her duties, then, and in
that event, the Council may, by an affirmative vote, appoint a Presiding Judge
in lieu of the regular appointed Judge, who shall serve as Judge until the duly
appointed Judge can resume his or her duties.
(2004 Code, § 2-106)
(Ord. 81-5, passed 3-26-1981; Ord. 81-6, passed 3-26-1981)
§ 30.06 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the city shall be from October 1 to September 30.
(2004 Code, § 2-107) (Ord. 98-3, passed 8-11-1998)
CHAPTER 31: PUBLIC RECORDS; MANAGEMENT
Section
   
31.01   Definitions
   
31.02   Declaration of public property
   
31.03   Policy
   
31.04   Records Management Officer
   
31.05   Plan to be developed; approval and authority
   
31.06   Duties and responsibilities of department heads
   
31.07   Records control schedules to be developed; approval and filing
   
31.08   Implementation of schedules; destruction of schedule records
   
31.09   Destruction of unscheduled records
§ 31.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. The officer who, by ordinance or administrative policy, is
in charge of an office of the city that creates or receives records.
   ESSENTIAL RECORD. Any record of the city necessary to the resumption or
continuation of its operations in an emergency or disaster, to the re-creation
of its legal and financial status or to the protection and fulfillment of
obligations to the people of the state.
   MUNICIPAL RECORDS. All documents, papers, letters, books, maps, photographs,
sound or video recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape, electronic media or other
information recording media, regardless of physical form or characteristic and
regardless of whether public access to them is open or restricted under the
laws of the state, created or received by the city or any of its officers or
employees pursuant to law or in the transaction of public business are hereby
declared to be the records of the city and shall be created, maintained and
disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or procedures
authorized by it and in no other manner.
   PERMANENT RECORD. Any record of the city for which the retention period on a
records control schedule is given as permanent.
   RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE. A document prepared by or under the authority of
the Records Management Officer listing the records maintained by the city,
their retention periods and other records disposition information that the
records management program may require.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT. The application of management techniques to the
creation, use, maintenance, retention, preservation and disposal of records for
the purposes of reducing the costs and improving the efficiency of
recordkeeping. The term includes the development of records control schedules,
the management of filing and information retrieval systems, the protection of
essential and permanent records, the economical and space-effective storage of
inactive records, control over the creation and distribution of forms, reports
and correspondence, and the management of micrographics and electronic and
other records storage systems.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER. The person designated in §
31.04(A) of this chapter.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN. The plan developed under §
31.05 of this chapter.
   RETENTION PERIOD. The minimum time that must pass after the creation,
recording or receipt of a record, or the fulfillment of certain actions
associated with a record, before it is eligible for destruction.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-27-2011)
§ 31.02 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All municipal records, as defined in §
31.01 of this chapter, are hereby declared to be the property of the city. No
municipal official or employee has, by virtue of his or her position, any
personal or property right to such records even though he or she may have
developed or compiled them. The unauthorized destruction, removal from files or
use of such records is prohibited.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-27-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.03 POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to provide for efficient,
economical and effective controls over the creation, distribution,
organization, maintenance, use and disposition of all municipal records through
a comprehensive system of integrated procedures for their management from
creation to ultimate disposition, consistent with the requirements of the State
Local Government Records Act, being Tex. Local Gov’t Code §§ 201.001 et seq.,
and accepted records management practice.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-27-2011)
§ 31.04 RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Designation. The City Secretary, and the successive holders of said
office, shall serve as Records Management Officer for the city. As provided by
state law, each successive holder of the office shall file his or her name with
the Director and Librarian of the State Library within 30 days of the initial
designation or of taking up the office, as applicable.
   (B)   Duties. In addition to other duties assigned in this chapter, the
Records Management Officer shall:
      (1)   Administer the records management program and provide assistance to
department heads in its implementation;
      (2)   Plan, formulate and prescribe records disposition policies,
systems, standards and procedures;
      (3)   In cooperation with department heads identify essential records and
establish a disaster plan for each municipal office and department to ensure
maximum availability of the records in order to re-establish operations quickly
and with minimum disruption and expense;
      (4)   Develop procedures to ensure the permanent preservation of the
historically valuable records of the city;
      (5)   Establish standards for filing and storage equipment and for
recordkeeping supplies;
      (6)   Study the feasibility of and, if appropriate, establish a uniform
filing system and a forms design and control system for the city;
      (7)   Monitor records retention schedules and administrative rules issued
by the State Library and Archives Commission to determine if the records
management program and the municipality’s records control schedules are in
compliance with state regulations;
      (8)   Disseminate to the City Council and department heads information
concerning state laws and administrative rules relating to local government
records;
      (9)   Ensure that the maintenance, preservation, microfilming,
destruction or other disposition of the records of the city are carried out in
accordance with the policies and procedures of the records management program
and the requirements of state law;
      (10)   Maintain records on the volume of records destroyed under approved
records control schedules or through records destruction authorization
requests, the volume of records microfilmed or stored electronically and the
estimated cost and space savings as the result of such disposal or disposition;
      (11)   Report annually to the City Council on the implementation of the
records management plan in each department of the city, including summaries of
the statistical and fiscal data compiled under §
31.08 of this chapter; and
      (12)   Bring to the attention of the City Council non-compliance by
department heads or other municipal personnel with the policies and procedures
of the records management program or the Local Government Records Act.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-27-2011)
Editor’s note:
   The wording of divisions (B)(1), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(8) and (B)(9) is
derived directly from the duties and responsibilities of records management
officers set out in state law in Tex. Local Gov’t Code § 203.023. The other
duties prescribed are standard features in the centralized direction of records
management programs. These duties fall well within the scope of the definition
of records management in §
31.01 of this chapter, the wording of which is taken directly from the
definition of records management offered in the State Local Government Records
Act, Tex. Local Gov’t Code § 201.003(13).
§ 31.05 PLAN TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer shall develop a records management plan
for the city for submission to the City Council. The plan must contain policies
and procedures designed to reduce the costs and improve the efficiency of
recordkeeping, to adequately protect the essential records of the municipality
and to properly preserve those records of the municipality that are of
historical value. The plan must be designed to enable the Records Management
Officer to carry out his or her duties prescribed by state law and this chapter
effectively.
   (B)   Once approved by the City Council, the records management plan shall
be binding on all offices, departments, divisions, programs, commissions,
bureaus, boards, committees or similar entities of the city and records shall
be created, maintained, stored, microfilmed or disposed of in accordance with
the plan.
   (C)   State law relating to the duties, other responsibilities or
recordkeeping requirements of a department head do not exempt the department
head or the records in the department head’s care from the application of this
chapter and the records management plan adopted under it and may not be used by
the department head as a basis for refusal to participate in the records
management program of the city.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-27-2011)
§ 31.06 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this chapter, department heads
shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with the Records Management Officer in carrying out the
policies and procedures established in the city for the efficient and
economical management of records and in carrying out the requirements of this
chapter;
   (B)   Adequately document the transaction of government business and the
services, programs and duties for which the department head and his or her
staff are responsible; and
   (C)   Maintain the records in his or her care and carry out their
preservation, microfilming, destruction or other disposition only in accordance
with the policies and procedures of the records management program of the city
and the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-27-2011)
§ 31.07 RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL AND FILING.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer, in cooperation with department heads,
shall prepare records control schedules on a department by department basis
listing all records series created or received by the department and the
retention period for each series. Records control schedules shall also contain
such other information regarding the disposition of municipal records as the
records management plan may require.
   (B)   Each records control schedule shall be monitored and amended as needed
by the Records Management Officer on a regular basis to ensure that it is in
compliance with records retention schedules issued by the state and that it
continues to reflect the recordkeeping procedures and needs of the department
and the records management program of the city.
   (C)   Before its adoption, a records control schedule or amended schedule
for a department must be approved by the department head and the City Council.
   (D)   Before its adoption, a records control schedule must be submitted to
and accepted for filing by the Director and Librarian as provided by state law.
If a schedule is not accepted for filing, the schedule shall be amended to make
it acceptable for filing. The Records Management Officer shall submit the
records control schedules to the Director and Librarian.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-27-2011)
§ 31.08 IMPLEMENTATION OF SCHEDULES; DESTRUCTION OF SCHEDULE RECORDS.
   (A)   A records control schedule for a department that has been approved and
adopted under §
31.07 of this chapter shall be implemented by department heads according to the
policies and procedures of the records management plan.
   (B)   A record whose retention period has expired on a records control
schedule shall be destroyed unless an open records request is pending on the
record, the subject matter of the record is pertinent to a pending law suit, or
the department head requests in writing to the Records Management Officer that
the record be retained for an additional period.
   (C)   Prior to the destruction of a record under an approved records control
schedule, authorization for the destruction must be obtained by the Records
Management Officer from the City Council.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-27-2011)
§ 31.09 DESTRUCTION OF UNSCHEDULED RECORDS.
   A record that has not yet been listed on an approved records control
schedule may be destroyed if its destruction has been approved in the same
manner as a record destroyed under an approved schedule and the Records
Management Officer has submitted to and received back from the Director and
Librarian an approved destruction authorization request.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-27-2011)
CHAPTER 32: CITY POLICIES AND FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Municipal Court technology fee
   
32.02   NIMS adoption
   
32.03   Municipal Court building security fee
Investment Policy
   
32.15   Introduction
   
32.16   Investment strategy
   
32.17   Investment policy
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
32.30   Program adoption
   
32.31   Purpose and definitions
   
32.32   Identification of red flags
   
32.33   Detecting red flags
   
32.34   Preventing and mitigating identity theft
   
32.35   Program updates
   
32.36   Program administration
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Municipal Court Technology
Fund, herein know as "the Fund", pursuant to Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure
Art. 102.0172. The Fund may be maintained in an interest bearing account and
may be maintained in the General Revenue Account.
   (B)   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall collect the technology fee from
every person upon the conviction of a Class C misdemeanor as a cost of court,
in addition to the fines imposed pursuant to city ordinances and/or state law.
All such court costs collected shall be deposited in the General Fund of the
city. The fee shall be in the amount of $4.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 9-26-2011)
§ 32.02 NIMS ADOPTION.
   The City Council hereby adopts the National Incident Management System dated
3-1-2004.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 8-15-2005)
§ 32.03 MUNICIPAL COURT BUILDING SECURITY FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Municipal Court Building
Security Fund, herein known as the Security Fund, pursuant to the Tex. Code of
Criminal Procedures Art. 102.017. The fund may be maintained in an interest
bearing account and may be maintained in the general revenue account.
   (B)   The judge of the Municipal Court shall collect the security fee from
every person upon the conviction of a Class C misdemeanor as a cost of court in
addition to the fines imposed pursuant to city ordinances and/or state law. All
such court costs collected shall be deposited in the General Fund of the city.
The fee shall be in the amount of $3.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-15-2014)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 32.15 INTRODUCTION.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to set forth specific investment policy
and strategy guidelines for the city in order to achieve the goals of safety,
liquidity, yield and public trust for all investment activity. The City Council
shall review and adopt, by resolution, its investment strategies and policy not
less than annually. The resolution shall include a record of changes made to
either the investment policy or strategy. This policy will conform to all state
laws and statutes which govern the investment of public funds, including, but
not by way of limitation, the Public Funds Investment Act, Tex. Gov’t Code Ch.
2256.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 9-24-2012)
§ 32.16 INVESTMENT STRATEGY.
   The city maintains portfolios designed to invest in a manner which will
provide a reasonable rate of return with the maximum security, and which
utilize four specific investment strategy considerations, designed to address
the unique characteristics of the fund groups represented in the portfolios.
   (A)   Investment strategies for operating funds and commingled pools
containing operating funds have, as their primary objective, to assure that
anticipated cash flows are matched with adequate investment liquidity. The
secondary objective is to create a portfolio structure which will experience
minimal volatility during economic cycles. This may be accomplished by
purchasing high quality, short- to medium-term securities which will complement
each other in a laddered or barbell maturity structure. The dollar weighted
average maturity of 365 days or less will be calculated using the stated final
maturity date of each security.
   (B)   Investment strategies for debt service funds shall have as the primary
objective the assurance of investment liquidity adequate to cover the debt
service obligation on the required payment date. Securities purchased shall not
have a stated final maturity date which exceeds the debt service payment date.
   (C)   Investment strategies for debt service reserve funds shall have as the
primary objective the ability to generate a dependable revenue stream to the
appropriate debt service fund from securities with a low degree of volatility.
Securities should be of high quality and, except as may be required by the bond
ordinance specific to an individual issue, of short to intermediate-term
maturities. Volatility shall be further controlled through the purchase of
securities carrying the highest coupon available, within the desired maturity
and quality range, without paying a premium, if at all possible.
   (D)   Investment strategies for special projects or special purpose fund
portfolios will have as their primary objective to assure that anticipated cash
flows are matched with adequate investment liquidity. These portfolios should
include at least 10% in highly liquid securities to allow for flexibility and
unanticipated project outlays. The stated final maturity dates of securities
held should not exceed the estimated project completion date.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 9-24-2012)
§ 32.17 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Scope. This investment policy applies to all financial assets of the
city. These funds are accounted for in the city’s annual financial audit and
include:
      (1)   General Fund;
      (2)   Special revenue funds;
      (3)   Debt service funds;
      (4)   Capital projects funds;
      (5)   Proprietary funds; and
      (6)   All other funds.
   (B)   Objectives.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   The city shall manage and invest its cash with four objectives,
listed in order of priority: safety, liquidity, yield and public trust. The
safety of the principal invested always remains the primary objective. All
investments shall be designed and managed in a manner responsive to the public
trust and consistent with state and local law.
         (b)   The city shall maintain a comprehensive cash management program
that includes collection of accounts receivable, vendor payment in accordance
with invoice terms and prudent investment of available cash. CASH MANAGEMENT is
defined as the process of managing monies in order to ensure maximum cash
availability and maximum yield on short-term investment of pooled idle cash.
      (2)   Safety. The primary objective of the city’s investment activity is
the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. Each investment
transaction shall be conducted in a manner to avoid capital losses, whether
they are from securities defaults or erosion of market value.
      (3)   Liquidity (PFIA, Tex. Gov’t Code § 2256.005 (b)(2)). The city’s
investment portfolio shall be structured such that the city is able to meet all
obligations in a timely manner. This shall be achieved by matching investment
maturities with forecasted cash flow requirements and by investing in
securities with active secondary markets.
      (4)   Yield (PFIA, Tex. Gov’t Code § 2256.005 (b)(3)). The city’s cash
management portfolio shall be designed with the objective of regularly
exceeding the average rate of return on U.S. Treasury Bills at a maturity level
comparable to the city’s weighted average maturity in days. The investment
program shall seek to augment returns above this threshold consistent with risk
limitations identified herein and prudent investment policies.
      (5)   Public trust. All participants in the city’s investment process
shall seek to act responsibly as custodians of the public trust. Investment
officials shall avoid any transaction which might impair public confidence in
the city’s ability to govern effectively.
   (C)   Responsibility and control.
      (1)   Investment officers.
         (a)   Authority to manage the city’s investment program is derived
from a resolution of the City Council. The Mayor is designated as Investment
Officer of the city and is responsible for investment decisions and activities.
         (b)   The Investment Officer shall attend:
            1.   At least one training session relating to the officer’s
responsibility under the Act within 12 months after assuming duties; and
            2.   A training session not less than once every two years and
receive ten hours of training.
         (c)   Such training from an independent source shall be approved or
endorsed by either the Government Finance Officers Association of Texas, the
Government Treasurers Organization of Texas or the Texas Municipal League.
      (2)   Internal controls.
         (a)   The Investment Officer is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of
the city are protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal control
structure shall be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these
objectives are met. The concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that:
            1.   The cost of a control should not exceed the benefits likely to
be derived; and
            2.   The valuation of costs and benefits requires estimates and
judgments by management.
         (b)   Accordingly, the Investment Officer shall establish a process
for annual independent review by an external auditor to assure compliance with
policies and procedures. The results of this review shall be reported to the
City Council. The internal controls shall address the following points:
            1.   Control of collusion;
            2.   Separation of transaction authority from accounting and record
keeping;
            3.   Custodial safekeeping;
            4.   Avoidance of physical delivery securities;
            5.   Clear delegation of authority to subordinate staff members;
            6.   Written confirmation for telephone (voice) transactions for
investments and wire transfers; and
            7.   Development of a wire transfer agreement with the depository
bank or third party custodian.
      (3)   Prudence.
         (a)   The standard of prudence to be applied by the Investment Officer
shall be the "prudent investor" rule, which states: "Investments shall be made
with judgment and care, under circumstances then prevailing, which persons of
prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in the management of their own
affairs, not for speculation, but for investment, considering the probable
safety of their capital as well as the probable income to be derived." In
determining whether an Investment Officer has exercised prudence with respect
to an investment decision, the determination shall be made taking into
consideration:
            1.   The investment of all funds, or funds under the city’s
control, over which the officer had responsibility rather than a consideration
as to the prudence of a single investment; and
            2.   Whether the investment decision was consistent with the
written investment policy of the city.
         (b)   The Investment Officer, acting in accordance with written
procedures and exercising due diligence, shall not be held personally
responsible for a specific security’s credit risk or market price changes;
provided that, these deviations are reported immediately and that appropriate
action is taken to control adverse developments. The City Council retains the
ultimate responsibility as fiduciaries of the assets of the city.
      (4)   Ethics and conflicts of interest.
         (a)   City staff involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with proper execution of the
investment program or which could impair the ability to make impartial
investment decisions. City staff shall disclose to the Investment Officer any
material financial interests in financial institutions that conduct business
with the city and they shall further disclose positions that could be related
to the performance of the city’s portfolio. City staff shall subordinate their
personal financial transactions to those of the city, particularly with regard
to timing of purchases and sales.
         (b)   A statement by the Investment Officer required under this
division (C)(4) must be filed with the State Ethics Commission and the
governing body of the city if:
            1.   The officer has a personal business relationship with a
business organization offering to engage in an investment transaction with the
city (as defined in PFIA, Tex. Gov’t Code § 2256.005(i)(1-3));or
            2.   The officer is related within the second degree by affinity or
third degree by consanguinity, as determined under Tex. Gov’t Code Ch. 573, to
an individual seeking to transact investment business with the city. (PFIA,
Tex. Gov’t Code § 2256.005(i)).
   (D)   Reporting.
      (1)   Quarterly reporting. The Investment Officer shall submit a signed
investment report at least quarterly that summarizes current market conditions,
economic developments and anticipated investment conditions. The report shall
describe the portfolio in terms of investment securities, maturities, risk
characteristics and shall explain the total investment return for the reporting
period.
      (2)   Annual report. Within 60 days of the end of the fiscal year, the
Investment Officer shall present an annual report on the investment program and
investment activity to the City Council.
      (3)   Methods. The investment report provided to the City Council shall
include a succinct management summary that provides a clear picture of the
status of the current investment portfolio and transactions made over the
reporting period. This management summary will be prepared in a manner that
will allow the City Council to ascertain whether investment activities during
the reporting period conformed to the investment policy. The report will
include the following as maybe applicable:
         (a)   A listing of individual securities held at the end of the
reporting period. This list will include the name of the fund or pooled group
fund for which each individual investment was acquired;
         (b)   Unrealized gains or losses resulting from appreciation or
depreciation by listing the beginning and ending book and market value of
securities for the period. Market values shall be obtained from financial
institutions or portfolio reporting services independent from the broker/dealer
from which the security was purchased;
         (c)   Additions and changes to the market value during the period;
         (d)   Fully accrued interest for the reporting period;
         (e)   Average weighted yield to maturity of portfolio on entity
investments as compared to applicable benchmarks;
         (f)   Listing of investments by maturity date;
         (g)   The percentage of the total portfolio which each type of
investment represents; and
         (h)   Statement of compliance of the city’s investment portfolio with
state law and the investment strategy and policy approved by the City Council.
   (E)   Investment portfolio.
      (1)   Active portfolio management. The city shall pursue an active versus
a passive portfolio management philosophy. That is, securities may be sold
before they mature if market conditions present an opportunity for the city to
benefit from the trade. The Investment Officer will routinely monitor the
contents of the portfolio, the available markets, and the relative value of
competing instruments, and will adjust the portfolio accordingly.
      (2)   Investments. Assets of the city may be invested in the following
instruments; provided, however, that, at no time shall assets of the city be
invested in any instrument or security not authorized for investment under the
Act, as the Act may from time to time be amended. The city is not required to
liquidate investments that were authorized investments at the time of purchase.
         (a)   Authorized.
            1.   Obligations of the United States of America, its agencies and
instrumentalities, which have a liquid market with a readily determinable
market value;
            2.   Direct obligations of the state and agencies thereof;
            3.   Other obligations, the principal of and interest on which are
unconditionally guaranteed by the state or United States of America;
            4.   Obligations of the states, agencies thereof, counties, cities
and other political subdivisions of any state having been rated as investment
quality by a nationally recognized rating firm, and having received a rating of
not less than "A" or its equivalent;
            5.   Certificates of deposit of state and national banks domiciled
in Texas, guaranteed or insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance or its
successor or secured by obligations described in divisions (E)(2)(a)1. through
(E)(2)(a)4. above, which are intended to include all direct agency or
instrumentality issued mortgage backed securities rated AAA by a nationally
recognized rating agency, or by Tex. Gov’t Code Art. 2529b-l and that have a
market value of not less than the principal, amount of the certificates;
            6.   Fully collateralized direct repurchase agreements with a
defined termination date secured by obligations of the United States or its
agencies and instrumentalities pledged with a third party, selected by the
Investment Officer, other than an agency for the pledgor. Repurchase agreements
must be purchased through a primary government securities dealer, as defined by
the Federal Reserve, or a bank domiciled in Texas. A master repurchase
agreement must be signed by the bank/dealer prior to investment in a repurchase
agreement; and
            7.   Joint pools of political subdivisions in the state which
invest in instruments and follow practices allowed by current law. Investment
in such pools shall be limited to 15% of the city’s entire portfolio. A pool
must be continuously rated no lower than AAA or AAA-m or at an equivalent
rating by at least one nationally recognized rating service.
         (b)   Prohibited. The city’s authorized investments options are more
restrictive than those allowed by state law. State law specifically prohibits
investment in the following investment securities:
            1.   Obligations whose payment represents the coupon payments on
the outstanding principal balance of the underlying mortgage-backed security
collateral and pays no principal;
            2.   Obligations whose payment represents the principal stream of
cash flow from the underlying mortgage-backed security collateral and bears no
interest;
            3.   Collateralized mortgage obligations that have a stated final
maturity date of greater than ten years; and
            4.   Collateralized mortgage obligations the interest rate of which
is determined by an index that adjusts opposite to the changes in a market
index.
      (3)   Holding period.
         (a)   The city intends to match the holding periods of investment
funds with liquidity needs of the city. In no case will the average maturity of
investments of the city’s operating funds exceed one year. The maximum final
stated maturity of any investment shall not exceed five years.
         (b)   Investments in all funds shall be managed in such a way that the
market price losses resulting from interest rate volatility would be offset by
coupon income and current income received from the volume of the portfolio
during a 12-month period.
      (4)   Risk and diversification. The city recognizes that investment risks
can result from issuer defaults, market price changes or various technical
complications leading to temporary illiquidity. Risk is controlled through
portfolio diversification that shall be achieved by the following general
guidelines.
         (a)   Risk of issuer default is controlled by limiting investments to
those instruments allowed by the Act, which are described herein.
         (b)   Risk of market price changes shall be controlled by avoiding
over-concentration of assets in a specific maturity sector, limitation of
average maturity of operating funds investments to one year, and avoidance of
over-concentration of assets in specific instruments other than U.S. Treasury
securities and insured or collateralized certificates of deposits.
         (c)   Risk of illiquidity due to technical complications shall be
controlled by the selection of securities dealers as described herein.
   (F)   Selection of banks and dealers.
      (1)   Depository. At least every three years, a depository shall be
selected through the city’s banking services procurement process, which shall
include a formal request for proposal (RFP). In selecting a depository, the
credit worthiness of institutions shall be considered, and the Investment
Officer shall conduct a comprehensive review of prospective depositories’
credit characteristics and financial history.
      (2)   Certificates of deposit. Banks seeking to establish eligibility for
the city’s competitive certificate of deposit purchase program shall submit for
review annual financial statements, evidence of federal insurance and other
information required by the Investment Officer.
      (3)   Securities dealers.
         (a)   For brokers and dealers of government securities, the city shall
select only those dealers reporting to the Market Reports Division of the
Federal Reserve Board of New York, also known as the Primary Government
Security Dealers, unless a comprehensive credit and capitalization analysis
reveals that other firms are adequately financed to conduct public business.
Only brokers and dealers with a Harlingen, Texas, office shall be selected.
Investment officials shall not knowingly conduct business with any firm with
whom public entities have sustained losses on investments. All securities
dealers shall provide the city with references from public entities that they
are currently serving. The Investment Officer may adopt and annually review a
list of qualified brokers authorized to engage in investment transactions with
the entity.
         (b)   All financial institutions and broker/dealers who desire to
become qualified bidders for investment transactions must supply the following
as appropriate:
            1.   Audited financial statements;
            2.   Proof of National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD)
certification;
            3.   Proof of state registration;
            4.   Completed broker/dealer questionnaire;
            5.   Certification of having read the city’s investment policy,
signed by a qualified representative of the organization; and
            6.   Acknowledgment that the organization has implemented
reasonable procedures and controls in an effort to preclude imprudent
investment activities arising out of investment transactions conducted between
the city and the organization.
         (c)   QUALIFIED REPRESENTATIVE means a person who holds a position
with a business organization, who is authorized to act on behalf of the
business organization and who is one of the following:
            1.   For a business organization doing business that is regulated
by or registered with a securities commission, a person who is registered under
the rules of the National Association of Securities Dealers;
            2.   For a state or federal bank, a savings bank or a state or
federal credit union, a member of the loan committee for the bank or branch of
the bank or a person authorized by corporate resolution to act on behalf of and
bind the banking institution; or
            3.   For an investment pool, the person authorized by the elected
official or board with authority to administer the activities of the investment
pool to sign the certification on behalf of the investment pool.
      (d)   A thorough investigation of the pool is required prior to
investing, and on a continual basis. All investment pools must supply the
following information in order to be eligible to receive funds:
            1.   The types of investments in which money is allowed to be
invested;
            2.   The maximum average dollar-weighted maturity allowed, based on
the stated maturity date, of the pool;
            3.   The maximum stated maturity date any investment security
within the portfolio has;
            4.   The objectives of the pool;
            5.   The size of the pool;
            6.   The names of the members of the advisory board of the pool and
the dates their terms expire;
            7.   The custodian bank that will safe keep the pool’s assets;
            8.   Whether the intent of the pool is to maintain a net asset
value of $1 and the risk of market price fluctuation;
            9.   Whether the only source of payment is the assets of the pool
at market value or whether there is a secondary source of payment, such as
insurance or guarantees, and a description of the secondary source of payment;
            10.   The name and address of the independent auditor of the pool
to deposit funds in and withdraw funds from the pool and any deadlines or other
operating policies required for the entity to invest funds in and withdraw
funds from the pool;
            11.   The performance history of the pool, including yield, average
dollar-weighted maturities and expense ratios; and
            12.   A description of interest calculations and how interest is
distributed, and how gains and losses are treated.
      (4)   Annual review. An annual review of the financial condition and
registration of qualified bidders will be conducted by the Investment Officer.
   (G)   Safekeeping and custody.
      (1)   Insurance or collateral. All deposits and investments of city funds
other than direct purchases of U.S. Treasuries or Agencies shall be secured by
pledged collateral. In order to anticipate market changes and provide a level
of security for all funds, the collateralization level will be 102% of market
value of principal and accrued interest on the deposits or investments less an
amount insured by the FDIC or FSLIC. Evidence of the pledged collateral shall
be maintained by the Investment Officer or a third party financial institution.
Repurchase agreements shall be documented by a specific agreement noting the
collateral pledge in each agreement. Collateral shall be reviewed periodically
to ensure that the market value of the pledged securities is adequate.
      (2)   Safekeeping agreement. Collateral pledged to secure deposits of the
city shall be held by a safekeeping institution in accordance with a
safekeeping agreement which clearly defines the procedural steps for gaining
access to the collateral should the city determine that the city’s funds are in
jeopardy. The safekeeping institution, or trustee, shall be the Federal Reserve
Bank or an institution not affiliated with the firm pledging the collateral.
The safekeeping agreement shall include the signatures of authorized
representatives of the city, the firm pledging the collateral and the trustee.
      (3)   "Collateral" defined. The city shall accept only the following
securities as collateral:
         (a)   FDIC and FSLIC insurance coverage;
         (b)   A bond, certificate of indebtedness or treasury note of the
United States, or other evidence of indebtedness of the United States that is
guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States;
         (c)   Obligations, the principal and interest on which are
unconditionally guaranteed or insured by the state; and
         (d)   A bond of the state or of a county, city or other political
subdivision of the state having been rated as investment grade (investment
rating no less than "A" or its equivalent) by a nationally recognized rating
agency with a remaining maturity of ten years or less.
            1.   Subject to audit. All collateral shall be subject to
inspection and audit by the Director of Finance or the city’s independent
auditors.
            2.   Delivery versus payment. Treasury bills, notes, bonds,
repurchase agreements and government agencies’ securities shall be purchased
using the delivery versus payment method. That is, funds shall not be wired or
paid until verification has been made that the correct security was received by
the trustee. The security shall be held in the name of the city or held on
behalf of the city. The trustee’s records shall assure the notation of the
city’s ownership of or explicit claim on the securities. The original copy of
all safekeeping receipts shall be delivered to the city.
   (H)   Investment policy adoption. The City Council shall review these
investment policies and strategies not less than annually through the adoption
of a resolution.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 9-24-2012)
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 32.30 PROGRAM ADOPTION.
   (A)   (1)   The city developed this Identity Theft Prevention Program
("Program") pursuant to the Federal Trade Commission’s Red Flags Rule ("Rule"),
which implements § 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003
(being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq.), 16 C.F.R. § 681.2.
      (2)   This Program was developed for the Utility Department of the city
("Utility") with oversight and approval of the City Council.
   (B)   After consideration of the size and complexity of the Utility’s
operations and account systems, and the nature and scope of the Utility’s
activities, the City Council determined that this Program was appropriate for
the city’s Utility, and therefore approved this Program on 5-26-2009.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-26-2009)
§ 32.31 PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Establish an Identity Theft Prevention Program. To establish an
Identity Theft Prevention Program designed to detect, prevent and mitigate
identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or an
existing covered account and to provide for continued administration of the
Program in compliance with 16 C.F.R. part 681, implementing §§ 114 and 315 of
the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACTA) of 2003, being 15 U.S.C.
§§ 1681 et seq.
   (B)   Establishing and fulfilling requirements of the red flags rule.
      (1)   The Red Flags Rule ("rule") defines IDENTITY THEFT as "fraud
committed using the identifying information of another person" and a RED FLAG
as a pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the possible
existence of identity theft.
      (2)   Under the Rule, every financial institution and creditor is
required to establish an Identity Theft Prevention Program tailored to its
size, complexity and the nature of its operation. The Program must contain
reasonable policies and procedures to:
         (a)   Identify relevant red flags for new and existing covered
accounts and incorporate those red flags into the Program;
         (b)   Detect red flags that have been incorporated into the Program;
         (c)   Respond appropriately to any red flags that are detected to
prevent and mitigate identity theft; and
         (d)   Ensure the Program is updated periodically, to reflect changes
in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the creditor from
identity theft.
   (C)   Red flags rule definitions used in this Program. For the purpose of
this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Palm Valley, Texas.
      COVERED ACCOUNT. Under the rule:
         (a)   Any account the Utility offers or maintains primarily for
personal, family or household purposes, that involves multiple payments or
transactions; and
         (b)   Any other account the Utility offers or maintains for which
there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and
soundness of the Utility from identity theft.
      CREDITORS. The rule defines creditors "to include finance companies,
automobile dealers, mortgage brokers, utility companies and telecommunications
companies. Where non-profit and government entities defer payment for goods or
services, they, too, are to be considered creditors."
      IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. Any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including: name, address, telephone number, Social Security number, date of
birth, government issued driver’s license or identification number, alien
registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer
identification number, unique electronic identification number, computer’s
Internet protocol address or routing code.
      PROGRAM. The Identity Theft Prevention Program for the city.
      PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR. The Mayor.
      UTILITY. The Utility Department for the city.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-26-2009)
§ 32.32 IDENTIFICATION OF RED FLAGS.
   (A)   In order to identify relevant red flags, the Utility considers the
types of accounts that it offers and maintains, the methods it provides to open
its accounts, the methods it provides to access its accounts and its previous
experiences with identity theft.
   (B)   The Utility identifies the following red flags, in each of the listed
categories.
      (1)   Notifications and warnings from consumer credit reporting agencies;
red flags.
         (a)   Report of fraud accompanying a consumer credit report;
         (b)   Notice or report from a consumer credit agency of a credit
freeze on a customer or applicant;
         (c)   Notice or report from a consumer credit agency of an active duty
alert for an applicant; and
         (d)   Indication from a consumer credit report of activity that is
inconsistent with a customer’s usual pattern or activity, including, but not
limited to:
            1.   Recent and significant increase in volume of inquiries;
            2.   Unusual number of recent credit applications;
            3.   A material change in use of credit; and
            4.   Accounts closed for cause or abuse.
      (2)   Suspicious documents; red flags.
         (a)   Identification document or card that appears to be forged,
altered or inauthentic;
         (b)   Identification document or card on which a person’s photograph
or physical description is not consistent with the person presenting the
document;
         (c)   Other document with information that is not consistent with
existing customer information (such as if a person’s signature on a check
appears forged); and
         (d)   Application for service that appears to have been altered or
forged.
      (3)   Suspicious personal identifying information; red flags.
         (a)   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with
other information the customer provides (example: inconsistent birth dates,
lack of correlation between Social Security number range and date of birth);
         (b)   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with
other sources of information (for instance, Social Security number or an
address not matching an address on a credit report);
         (c)   Identifying information presented that is the same as
information shown on other applications that were found to be fraudulent;
         (d)   Identifying information presented that is consistent with
fraudulent activity (such as an invalid phone number or fictitious billing
address);
         (e)   Social Security number presented that is the same as one given
by another customer;
         (f)   An address or phone number presented that is the same as that of
another person;
         (g)   A person fails to provide complete personal identifying
information on an application when reminded to do so (however, by law, Social
Security numbers must not be required) or an applicant cannot provide
information requested beyond what could commonly be found in a purse or wallet;
and
         (h)   A person’s identifying information is not consistent with the
information that is on file for the customer.
      (4)   Suspicious account activity or unusual use of account; red flags.
         (a)   Change of address for an account followed by a request to change
the account holder’s name;
         (b)   Payments stop on an otherwise consistently up-to-date account;
         (c)   Account used in a way that is not consistent with prior use
(example: very high activity);
         (d)   Mail sent to the account holder is repeatedly returned as
undeliverable;
         (e)   Notice to the Utility that a customer is not receiving mail sent
by the Utility;
         (f)   Notice to the Utility that an account has unauthorized activity;
         (g)   Breach in the Utility’s computer system security; and
         (h)   Unauthorized access to or use of customer account information.
      (5)   Alerts from others; red flag. Notice to the Utility from a
customer, identity theft victim, fraud detection service, law enforcement or
other person that it has opened or is maintaining a fraudulent account for a
person engaged in identity theft.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-26-2009)
§ 32.33 DETECTING RED FLAGS.
   (A)   New accounts. In order to detect any of the red flags identified above
associated with the opening of a new account, Utility personnel will take the
following steps to obtain and verify the identity of the person opening the
account. Detect:
      (1)   Require certain identifying information such as name, date of
birth, residential or business address, principal place of business for an
entity, driver’s license or other identification;
      (2)   Verify the customer’s identity (for instance, review a driver’s
license or other identification card);
      (3)   Review documentation showing the existence of a business entity;
      (4)   Request additional documentation to establish identity; and
      (5)   Independently contact the customer or business.
   (B)   Existing accounts. In order to detect any of the red flags identified
above for an existing account, Utility personnel will take the following steps
to monitor transactions with an account. Detect:
      (1)   Verify the identification of customers if they request information
(in person, via telephone, via facsimile, via email);
      (2)   Verify the validity of requests to close accounts or change billing
addresses; and
      (3)   Verify changes in banking information given for billing and payment
purposes.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-26-2009)
§ 32.34 PREVENTING AND MITIGATING IDENTITY THEFT.
   In the event Utility personnel detect any identified red flags, such
personnel shall take one or more of the following steps, depending on the
degree of risk posed by the red flag.
   (A)   Prevent and mitigate.
      (1)   Continue to monitor an account for evidence of identity theft;
      (2)   Contact the customer, sometimes through multiple methods;
      (3)   Change any passwords or other security devices that permit access
to accounts;
      (4)   Not open a new account;
      (5)   Close an existing account;
      (6)   Do not close the account, but monitor or contact authorities;
      (7)   Reopen an account with a new number;
      (8)   Notify the Program Administrator for determination of the
appropriate step(s) to take;
      (9)   Notify law enforcement; or
      (10)   Determine that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
   (B)   Protect customer identifying information. In order to further prevent
the likelihood of identity theft occurring with respect to Utility accounts,
the Utility will take the following steps with respect to its internal
operating procedures to protect customer identifying information:
      (1)   Ensure that its website is secure or provide clear notice that the
website is not secure;
      (2)   Where and when allowed, ensure complete and secure destruction of
paper documents and computer files containing customer information;
      (3)   Ensure that office computers are password protected and that
computer screens lock after a set period of time;
      (4)   Change passwords on office computers on a regular basis;
      (5)   Ensure all computers are backed up properly and any backup
information is secured;
      (6)   Keep offices clear of papers containing customer information;
      (7)   Request only the last four digits of Social Security numbers (if
any);
      (8)   Ensure computer virus protection is up to date; and
      (9)   Require and keep only the kinds of customer information that are
necessary for utility purposes.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-26-2009)
§ 32.35 PROGRAM UPDATES.
   This Program will be periodically reviewed and updated to reflect changes in
risks to customers and the soundness of the Utility from identity theft. At
least annually, the Program Administrator will consider the Utility’s
experiences with identity theft situation, changes in identity theft methods,
changes in identity theft detection and prevention methods, changes in types of
accounts the Utility maintains and changes in the Utility’s business
arrangements with other entities, consult with law enforcement authorities and
consult with other city personnel. After considering these factors, the Program
Administrator will determine whether changes to the Program, including the
listing of red flags, are warranted. If warranted, the Program Administrator
will update the Program or present the City Council with his or her recommended
changes and the City Council will make a determination of whether to accept,
modify or reject those changes to the Program.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-26-2009)
§ 32.36 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Oversight. Responsibility for developing, implementing and updating
this Program lies with an Identity Theft Committee for the Utility. The
Committee is headed by a Program Administrator, who may be the head of the
Utility or his or her appointee. Two or more other individuals appointed by the
head of the Utility or the Program Administrator comprise the remainder of the
Committee membership. The Program Administrator will be responsible for the
Program administration, for ensuring appropriate training of Utility staff on
the Program, for reviewing any staff reports regarding the detection of red
flags and the steps for preventing and mitigating identity theft, determining
which steps of prevention and mitigation should be taken in particular
circumstances and considering periodic changes to the Program.
   (B)   Staff training and reports.
      (1)   Initially, all Utility staff shall be trained either by or under
the direction of the Program Administrator in the detection of red flags, and
the responsive steps to be taken when a red flag is detected. Thereafter, all
Utility staff shall undergo update training not less than annually.
Additionally, all new Utility employees shall undergo training.
      (2)   All Utility staff shall submit reports monthly concerning the
Utility’s compliance with the program, the training that has been given and the
effectiveness of the policies and procedures in addressing the risk of identity
theft, including recommendations for changes to the Program. While incidents of
identity theft are to be reported immediately to the Program Administrator, the
monthly reports shall contain a recap of the incident and include the steps
taken to assist with resolution of the incident.
   (C)   Service provider arrangements. In the event the Utility engages a
service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more
accounts, including, but not limited to, franchise utility providers, the
Utility will take the following steps to ensure the service provider performs
its activity in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures designed to
detect, prevent and mitigate the risk of identity theft.
      (1)   Require, by contract or contract amendment, that service providers
have such policies and procedures in place; and
      (2)   Require, by contract or contract amendment, that service providers
review the Utility’s Program and report any red flags to the Program
Administrator.
   (D)   Specific program elements and confidentiality. For the effectiveness
of identity theft prevention Programs, the Red Flag Rule envisions a degree of
confidentiality regarding the Utility’s specific practices relating to identity
theft detection, prevention and mitigation. Therefore, under this Program,
knowledge of such specific practices are to be limited to the Identity Theft
Committee and those employees who need to know them for purposes of preventing
identity theft. Because this Program is to be adopted by a public body and thus
publicly available, it would be counterproductive to list these specific
practices here. Therefore, only the Program’s general red flag detection,
implementation and prevention practices are listed in this document.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-26-2009)
CHAPTER 33: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
   
33.01   Membership
   
33.02   Officers
   
33.03   Meetings
   
33.04   Creation of rules and regulations; duty to advise Council
PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD
§ 33.01 MEMBERSHIP.
   A Parks and Recreation Advisory Board is hereby created and established, the
same to consist of seven members. Each appointee to the Board shall be at least
18 years of age and each appointee or the appointee's spouse must be a resident
of the city or work or operate a business in the city and be of good moral
character and demonstrate an interest in the general welfare of the city. Each
appointee shall continue to serve until a successor is appointed. An appointee
shall forfeit his or her office if such appointee fails to attend three
consecutive meetings in a calendar year. The Mayor and City Council shall be
ex-officio members of the Board. The members shall be appointed by the City
Council for a term of three years. Any member of the Board may be removed at
any time by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 33.02 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Officers of the Board shall consist of a chair and a vice chair.
Officers shall be elected annually by a majority vote of the Board at the first
regular meeting. The chair will have the same voting privilege as any other
member.
   (B)   In the absence of the chair and the vice chair, any member may be
deemed the presiding officer by a quorum of the Board present at the meeting.
   (C)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall be an advisory board to
the City Council.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 33.03 MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Board shall comply with the Texas Open Meetings Act.
Meetings of the Board shall be held on an “as needed” basis at a location and
time determined by the Board. The Board shall allow citizens to address the
Board on agenda items and during a period time set aside for citizen
communication. The chair may limit a speaker to three minutes.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 33.04 CREATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS; DUTY TO ADVISE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall make such rules and
regulations for the conduct of its meetings and carry out the provisions of
this subchapter as shall be needed.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall advise the City Council,
from time to time, as to the present and future maintenance, operation,
planning, acquisition, development, enlargement, and public use policy of the
city's parks and recreation needs.
   (C)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall use its best efforts to
secure the support and cooperation of civic clubs and conduct a city
beautification and recreation program for the city. The Parks and Recreation
Advisory Board shall make an annual report and recommendation to the City
Council on its activities and work.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 8-18-2015)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER RATES
      
51.   BACKFLOW/CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
      
52.   WATER CONSERVATION AND DROUGHT CONTINGENCY
      
53.   FIRE SERVICE RATE
      
54.   DRAINAGE UTILITY SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER RATES
Section
   
50.01   Connection rates
   
50.02   Additional fees and charges
   
50.03   Penalty fees and charges
§ 50.01 CONNECTION RATES.
   (A)   Water rates.
      (1)   Base fee for zero to 4,000 gallons: $18.50; and
      (2)   Rate per thousand over base: $2.65.
   (B)   Sewer rates. Sewer rates will be charged on a consumption basis at the
rate of $21.00 base charge per unit, additional $1.25 per thousand over 1,000
gallons.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 9-9-2008; Ord. 2015-7, passed 10-27-2015; Ord. 2016-7,
passed 9-8-2016; Ord. 2017-7, passed 9-5-2017; Ord. 2022-3, passed 2-15-2022;
Ord. 2022-5, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 50.02 ADDITIONAL FEES AND CHARGES.
   The following charges in addition to the rates above shall be charged for
all water and/or sewer connections within the city:
   (A)   Impact fee: $0.40 per thousand gallons;
   (B)   Fuel adjustment: $0.15 per thousand gallons;
   (C)   Late penalty: 10% of bill;
   (D)   Customer deposit for new service: $200.00;
   (E)   Activation fee: $50;
   (F)   Reconnect fee: $100;
   (G)   After hours reconnect fee: $125;
   (H)   Returned check fee: $30; and
   (I)   Fire services fee: set each year based on annual fee from the City of
Harlingen, said fee amount(s) being codified in
Chapter 53 below.
   (J)   Water Meter (1"):
      (1)   New tap:       $450.00
      (2)   No tap:       $250.00
   (K)   Water Meter (2"):
      (1)   New tap:       $850.00
      (2)   No tap:       $650.00
   (L)   Sewer:
      (1)   New tap:      $450.00
      (2)   No tap:         $250.00
   (M)   Annual testing of backflow prevention device:
      (1)   Annual test fee:         $75.00
      (2)   Non-compliant backflow prevention device fees:
         (a)   Replacement fee:      $350.00 to $500.00
         (b)   Repair fee:         $150.00 to $350.00
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 9-9-2008; Ord. 2015-7, passed 10-27-2015; Ord. 2016-8,
passed 9-8-2016; Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 50.03 PENALTY FEES AND CHARGES.
   The following penalties or fees shall be charged for the following:
   (A)   Tampering with meter: $100;
   (B)   Meter removal/reset fee: $50;
   (C)   Removing or cutting city lock: $100; and
   (D)   Straight connection: $300.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 9-9-2008)
CHAPTER 51: BACKFLOW/CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
Section
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Applicability
   
51.04   Customer service inspection (CSI)
   
51.05   Circumstances requiring backflow prevention assemblies
   
51.06   Installation specifications
   
51.07   Special considerations
   
51.08   Customer water service agreement
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), in the
Rules and Regulations for Public Water Systems, 30 TAC Ch. 290, it is the
responsibility of the city to protect its drinking water system by instituting
a Backflow/Cross-Connection Control Program. This program includes the
installation of backflow prevention assemblies (BFPA) where deemed appropriate
or necessary to protect the drinking water system from potential contaminant
hazards.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. The undesirable reversal of water flow in a water system through a
cross-connection. Water will always flow towards the point of lowest pressure.
BACKFLOW can occur due to high pressure on the customer side, or low pressure
in the city’s water system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. An actual or potential connection between a public water
system line and any other pipeline, which contains water of fluids of a
questionable or unknown source or quality. When this situation occurs, the
drinking water system can become contaminated during a backflow condition.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 51.03 APPLICABILITY.
   As a condition of water service, all customers will execute a water service
agreement and install, maintain and operate their piping and plumbing systems
in accordance with the city’s Plumbing Code, Backflow/Cross Connection Control
Program, city ordinances and TCEQ regulations. If there is a conflict between
documents and those codes, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 51.04 CUSTOMER SERVICE INSPECTION (CSI).
   (A)   Initial inspection. A customer service inspection is an inspection of
a facility or residence to determine if cross-connections exist or if there is
a potential for a backflow situation to occur. A CSI will be performed on all
water service connections in order to determine which type of BFPA is needed to
eliminate cross-connections or prevent backflow. There will be no
“grandfathering” of an existing building or residence. An inspection report
will be filled out for all facilities and will be kept on file with the city.
   (B)   Annual testing.
      (1)   An annual test will be performed by a licensed city employee of all
backflow prevention devices installed at a residence to determine if said
devices are functioning properly.
      (2)   Fee. An annual fee for this testing will be charged in accordance
with §
50.02(M)(1) regardless of whether the backflow protection device passes or
fails the annual test.
   (C)   Non-compliance. If it is determined during an annual test that a
backflow prevention device is non-compliant or non-functioning, then the
property owner shall cause the replacement of the non- compliant or non-
functioning device within 15 days from the date the device is found to be non-
compliant or non-functioning. If the device is not brought into compliance
within that period, the city may elect to disrupt water service until such time
as the device has been repaired or replaced. The city may also elect to cause
its licensed city employee to repair or replace a non-compliant backflow
prevention device on or after the sixteenth day of non-compliance. A fee for
the repair or replacement will be charged to the property owner in accordance
with §
50.02(M)(2).
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 4-25-2011; Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 51.05 CIRCUMSTANCES REQUIRING BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES.
   At a minimum, a backflow prevention assembly will be required in each of the
following circumstances:
   (A)   When the nature and extent of any activity at a building, or the
materials used in connection with any activity at a building, or materials
stored at a building, could contaminate or pollute the city’s water system;
   (B)   When internal cross-connections are present that are not correctable;
   (C)   When intricate plumbing arrangements are present that make it
impractical to ascertain whether cross-connections exist;
   (D)   When a building has a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished;
   (E)   When entry to a building is unduly restricted so that inspections for
cross-connections cannot be made;
   (F)   When materials are being used such that, if backflow should occur, a
health hazard could result;
   (G)   When installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly is
deemed by an Inspector to be necessary to accomplish the purpose of this
chapter;
   (H)   When an appropriate CSI report form has not been filed with the city;
   (I)   When a fire sprinkler system using non-potable piping material is
connected to the city’s water system;
   (J)   In all new non-residential construction there shall be installed an
approved BFPA at the service connection. The type of the assembly will be
commensurate with the degree of hazard as determined by an Inspector;
   (K)   Commercial building when the end use of such building is not
determined or could change, a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly shall be installed at the service connection;
   (L)   If a building is required to have BFPA, but water cannot be turned off
during the testing of such assemblies, the premises shall be equipped with dual
BFPA of the same type so that testing, repair and maintenance can be performed;
   (M)   Any used water return system that has received approval from the city;
   (N)   If a point-of-use assembly has not been tested or repaired as required
by this chapter, a BFPA will be installed at the water meter;
   (O)   If an Inspector determines that additions or rearrangements have been
made to the plumbing system without the proper city permits, a BFPA shall be
required;
   (P)   All multi-story buildings or any building with a booster pump or
elevated storage tank; and
   (Q)   Any premises requiring multiple service connections for adequacy or
supply and/or fire protection shall have a backflow assembly on each service
connection. The assembly shall be commensurate with the degree of potential
hazard that could occur in the event of an interconnect between any of the
buildings on the premises.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 51.06 INSTALLATION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance with
the city’s Plumbing Code, ordinances and TCEQ Rule 30 TAC 290.47(i), Appendix
I. The assembly installer shall obtain the required permits prior to
installation. The assembly shall be tested upon installation by a recognized
backflow prevention assembly tester and certified to be operating within
specifications. BFPA(s) installed to provide protection against health hazards
must be tested and certified annually. Recognized BFPA testers shall complete a
TCEQ approved course on cross-connection control and backflow prevention
assembly testing, pass on examination and hold a current license as a BFPA
tester.
   (B)   No part of a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly
shall be submerged in water or installed in a location subject to flooding. All
assemblies installed below grade shall have non-ferrous threaded plugs inserted
in the test ports.
   (C)   Assemblies shall be installed at the point of delivery of the water
supply of the potential hazard, before any branch in the line. An Inspector may
specify other areas for installation of the assembly.
   (D)   All vertical installations shall be approved, in writing, prior to
installation and all vertical installations must be nationally recognized and
certified as an approved testable device.
   (E)   The assembly shall be readily accessible with adequate room for
maintenance and testing. Assemblies two inches and smaller shall have at least
a six inches clearance on all sides of the assembly. All assemblies larger than
two inches shall have a minimum clearance of 12 inches on the backside, 24
inches on the test cock side, 12 inches below the assembly and 36 inches above
the assembly.
   (F)   If the city grants written permission to install the backflow assembly
inside of a building, the assembly shall be readily accessible Monday through
Friday, between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 51.07 SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Pressure loss. Any water pressure drop caused by the installation of a
backflow assembly shall not be the responsibility of the city. The city may
give reasonable assistance to a property owner regarding information on
adequate sizing of assemblies and proper plumbing practices to provide for
adequate pressure and flows.
   (B)   Thermal expansion or freezing. It is the responsibility of the
property owner for any cost associated with damage caused by thermal expansion
or freezing of the backflow prevention assembly(s).
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 51.08 CUSTOMER WATER SERVICE AGREEMENT.
   Each existing customer of the city’s water system must execute the customer
water service agreement approved by the city in order to continue to receive
water service from the city. Each new customer of the city’s water system must
execute the customer water service agreement in order to receive water service
from the city.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 4-25-2011)
CHAPTER 52: WATER CONSERVATION AND DROUGHT CONTINGENCY
Section
   
52.01   Public involvement; approval of Plan
   
52.02   Coordination with Regional Water Planning Group
   
52.03   Water Conservation Plan
   
52.04   Drought Contingency Plan
   
52.05   Emergency Contingency Plan
   
52.06   Implementation
   
52.07   Variances
   
52.08   Application
   
52.09   Remedies cumulative
   
52.10   Severability
   
52.11   Public record
   
52.12   Authority
   
52.13   Repeal of prior orders
   
52.14   Renewal and update
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT; APPROVAL OF PLAN.
   Opportunity for the public to provide input into the preparation of this
Plan was provided by means of scheduling and providing public notice of a
public meeting to accept input on the Plan. The City Council hereby approves
and adopts this Plan as set forth in this chapter, and the provisions of such
Plan shall be implemented immediately and enforced as a rule of the city.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.02 COORDINATION WITH REGIONAL WATER PLANNING GROUP.
   The city will coordinate with and provide a copy of this Plan to the
Regional Water Planning Group for the Rio Grande Basin.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.03 WATER CONSERVATION PLAN.
   (A)   Education and information. The city hereby institutes an educational
program, to be implemented immediately, to promote water conservation by the
general public which may include any of the following:
      (1)   Publications of articles in a newspaper or newsletter of general
circulation in the city's service area, providing information regarding water
conservation;
      (2)   Direct distributions to all city residents and other users of water
within the city explaining the Plan;
      (3)   Direct distributions to users of educational and informational
material regarding water conservation; and
      (4)   Additional educational activities consisting of:
         (a)   Publishing an article or articles in a local newspaper or
newsletter of general circulation in the city's service area, providing tips or
information on water saving techniques;
         (b)   Conducting, with assistance from the city's water supplier, an
informational school program in a school attended by students within the city's
service area;
         (c)   Conducting an educational program for users at a public place
within or accessible to residents of the city;
         (d)   Conducting or engaging in such other informational or
educational activity designed to further water conservation as, in the
discretion of the City Council, may be consistent with the purposes and
policies of this Plan; or
         (e)   Any combination of the foregoing.
   (B)   Retrofit Education Program. The city shall make information regarding
water conservation available to users to consider when purchasing and
installing various plumbing fixtures, lawn watering equipment and other water-
using appliances.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.04 DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN.
   (A)   Triggering criteria for initiation and termination of drought response
stages. The Mayor, or his or her designee, shall monitor water supply and/or
demand conditions on a daily basis and shall determine when conditions warrant
initiation or termination of each stage of the Plan. Public notification of the
initiation or termination of drought response stages shall be as set forth in
division (D). The triggering criteria described below is based on lack of
sufficient water for continued normal use considering future supply.
      (1)   Stage 1 - mild water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be requested to
voluntarily conserve water when water shortage at Falcon and Amistad reservoirs
are sufficiently low to require agriculture irrigation allocations to be
reduced to 50% of full allocation.
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 1 of the Plan may be
rescinded when Falcon and Amistad reservoirs have sufficient water to allow
water for full agricultural allocation.
      (2)   Stage 2 - moderate water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain non-essential water
uses provided in division (B) of this Plan when agricultural use of irrigation
water is discontinued.
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 2 of the Plan may be
rescinded when agricultural use of irrigation water is allowed. Upon
termination of Stage 2, Stage 1 becomes operative.
      (3)   Stage 3 - severe water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain non-essential water
uses for Stage 3 of this Plan when service or delivery water storage in Falcon
and Amistad reservoirs is reduced by 50% by the Water Master.
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 3 of the Plan may be
rescinded when service or delivery water storage in Falcon and Amistad
reservoirs are restored to allow Stage 2 to become operative.
      (4)   Stage 4 - critical water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain non-essential water
uses for Stage 3 of this Plan when municipal allocations are reduced to 75% of
full municipal allocations by the Water Master.
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 4 of the Plan may be
rescinded when full municipal allocations are restored by the Water Master.
   (B)   Drought responses stages. The Mayor, or his or her designee, shall
monitor water supply and/or demand conditions on a daily basis and in
accordance with the triggering criteria set forth in above division (A) of this
Plan shall determine that a mild, moderate, severe or critical condition exists
and shall implement the following actions upon notice given as set forth in
division (D) of this Plan.
      (1)   Stage 1 - mild water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Goal. Achieve a voluntary 5% reduction in average daily water
demand.
         (b)   Supply management measures. Reduce flushing of water mains.
         (c)   Voluntary water use restrictions.
            1.   Water customers are requested to voluntarily limit the
irrigation of landscaped area only between the hours of midnight and 10:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m. to midnight.
            2.   Water customers are requested to practice water conservation
and to minimize or discontinue water use for non-essential purposes as defined
below in division (B)(2)(c)(7) of this Plan.
            3.   Fund raising car washes at locations other than authorized car
wash locations are prohibited.
      (2)   Stage 2 - moderate water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Goal. Achieve a 7.5% reduction in average daily water demand.
         (b)   Supply management measures. Reduce flushing of water mains.
         (c)   Water use restrictions.
            1.   Irrigation of landscaped areas with hose-end sprinklers or
automatic irrigation systems shall be limited to irrigation of landscaped areas
between 8:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight. However, irrigation of landscaped areas
is permitted at any time if it is by means of a hand-held hose, a faucet filled
bucket or watering can of five gallons or less or a drip irrigation system.
            2.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle is prohibited except between the hours of
12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight. Such
washing, when allowed, shall be done for quick rinses. Vehicle washing may be
done at any time on the immediate premises of a commercial car wash or
commercial service station. Further, such washing may be exempted from these
regulations if the health, safety, and welfare of the public is contingent upon
frequent vehicle cleansing, such as garbage trucks and vehicles used to
transport food and perishables.
            3.   Use of water to fill, refill or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools, wading pools or Jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited except between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m. and 12:00
midnight.
            4.   Operation of any ornamental foundation or pond for aesthetic
or scenic purpose is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life
or where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a re-circulation system.
            5.   Use of water from hydrants shall be limited to firefighting,
related activities or other activities necessary to maintain public health,
safety and welfare, except that use of water from designated fire hydrants for
construction purpose may be allowed under special permit from the city.
            6.   Use of water for the irrigation of golf course greens, tees
and fairways is prohibited except between the hours 12:00 midnight and 10:00
a.m. and between 8:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight. However, if the golf course
utilizes a water supply other than that provided by the city, the facility
shall not be subject to these regulations.
            7.   The following uses of water are defined as non-essential and
are prohibited:
               a.   Wash down of any sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking
lots, tennis courts or other hard-surfaces areas;
               b.   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for
purposes other than immediate fire protection;
               c.   Use of water for dust control;
               d.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate
in any gutter or street;
               e.   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a
reasonable period after having been given notice directing the repair of such
leak(s);
               f.   Car washing prohibited in driveways or at home;
               g.   Car washing locations that have recycle equipment shall be
authorized to wash cars; and
               h.   Car wash businesses that do not have recycle equipment
shall not be permitted to operate.
      (3)   Stage 3 - severe water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Goal. Achieve a 10% reduction in average daily water demand.
         (b)   Supply management measures. Reduce flushing of water mains.
         (c)   Water use restrictions. All requirements of Stage 2 shall remain
in effect during Stage 3 except:
            1.   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to watering
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m and between 8:00 p.m. and 12:
00 midnight and shall be by means of hand-held hoses, hand-helds, buckets, drip
irrigation or permanently installed automatic sprinkler system only. The use of
hose-end sprinklers is prohibited at all times.
            2.   The watering of golf courses tees is prohibited, unless the
golf course utilizes a water supply other than that provided by the city.
            3.   All restaurants are prohibited from serving water to its
patrons except when requested.
      (4)   Stage 4 - critical water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Goal. Achieve a 15% reduction in average daily water demand.
         (b)   Supply management measures.
            1.   Reduce pressure in distribution system;
            2.   Discontinue irrigation of public landscaped areas;
            3.   Reduce flushing of water mains; and
            4.    Activate surcharge of water rate structure.
         (c)   Water use restrictions. All requirements of Stage 2 and Stage 3
shall remain in effect during Stage 4 except:
            1.   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to watering
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m. and
12:00 midnight and shall be by means of hand-held hoses, hand-held buckets or
drip irrigation only. The uses of hose-end sprinklers or permanently installed
automatic sprinkler systems are prohibited at all times.
            2.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicles, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle not occurring on the premises of a
commercial car wash and commercial service stations shall occur only between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. and between 6:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.
            3.   The filling, refilling or adding of water to swimming pools,
wading pools and Jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited.
            4.   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a re-circulation system.
   (C)   Water rationing. In the event that water shortage conditions threaten
public health, safety and welfare, the Mayor is hereby authorized to ration
water under the following conditions:
      (1)   Emergency water shortage. Conditions or distribution emergencies as
described in §
52.05.
      (2)   Goal. Achieve a water supply to meet absolute minimum requirements
for priority use customers and will allocate water for health purposes only.
      (3)   Supply management measures.
         (a)   Inform public as to requirements, as soon as possible;
         (b)   Restrict water use of household purposes: no hand watering;
         (c)   Establish a maximum use of 1,000 gallons per household resident;
         (d)   Surcharge over allowable use level; and
         (e)   All stages of restrictions enforced.
   (D)   Notice.
      (1)   Once one of the above triggering criteria has occurred, users will
be notified that such triggering criteria has occurred and of the drought
response stages (as defined herein) to be taken. The process for notifying
users may include any of the following:
         (a)   Mailing, at least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
required drought response stage, a written notice to each user;
         (b)   Posting a sign at the entrance to the city;
         (c)   Posting notices at a public place in the city; and
         (d)   Dissemination of press releases to the local news media.
      (2)   Any notice issued shall contain:
         (a)   The date the drought response stages will begin;
         (b)   The date the drought response stages will terminate, if known;
         (c)   A list of drought response stages to be implemented; and
         (d)   An explanation of penalties for violations of such drought
stages.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.05 EMERGENCY CONTINGENCY PLAN.
   In the event of a fire, flood, hurricane, lighting strike, tornado,
windstorm or any other act of God, riot, terrorist act or any other act of
civil disobedience, or any other similar occurrence which results in the
inability of the city to provide potable water to users (or the likelihood
thereof), the City Council, in its discretion, may without prior notice, invoke
all or any of the drought response stages set forth in this Plan as an
"emergency water shortage". The City Council may establish any of the penalties
set forth in §
52.99 for violations of the emergency response shortages.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.06 IMPLEMENTATION.
   Without limitation to specific actions stated in this Plan to be taken by
the Mayor, the Mayor will administer and enforce the Plan, and will oversee and
be responsible for the execution and implementation of all elements of this
Plan (or, if the city employs its own peace officers pursuant to Texas Water
Code § 49.216, such peace officers will be responsible for enforcement of this
Plan). The Mayor shall keep adequate records for Plan verification. The Mayor
shall report to the City Council, at meetings of the City Council, regarding
actions taken and which need to be taken under this Plan. Without limiting the
foregoing, the Mayor shall advise the Council as soon as reasonably practicable
when a particular triggering criteria has been reached under this Plan and when
a particular drought condition no longer exists. The Mayor shall notify the
executive director of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality within five
business days of the implementation of any mandatory provisions of this Plan.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.07 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The City Council may grant a temporary variance for existing water
uses otherwise prohibited under this Plan if the City Council determines that
failure to grant such a variance would cause an emergency condition adversely
affecting the health, sanitation or fire protection for the public or the
person requesting such variance and if one or more of the following conditions
are met:
      (1)   Compliance with this Plan cannot be technically accomplished during
the duration of the water supply shortage or other condition for which the Plan
is in effect; and
      (2)   Alternative methods can be implemented which will achieve the same
level of reduction in water use.
   (B)   Persons requesting a variance from the provisions of this chapter
shall file a petition for variance with the city within five days after the
Plan or a particular drought response stage has been invoked. All petitions for
variance shall be reviewed by the City Council, and shall include the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of the petitioner(s);
      (2)   Purpose of water use;
      (3)   Specific provision(s) of the Plan from which the petitioner is
requesting relief;
      (4)   Detailed statement as to how the specific provision of the Plan
adversely affects the petitioner or what damage or harm will occur to the
petitioner or others if the petitioner complies with this chapter;
      (5)   Description of the relief requested;
      (6)   Period of time for which the variance is sought;
      (7)   Alternative water use restrictions or other measures the petitioner
is taking or proposes to take to meet the intent of this Plan and the
compliance date; and
      (8)   Other pertinent information.
   (C)   Unless waived or modified by the City Council, variances granted shall
include a timetable for compliance, and variances granted shall expire when the
Plan or particular drought response stage is no longer in effect. No variance
shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any violation of this Plan occurring
prior to the issuance of the variance.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.08 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this Plan shall apply to all persons, customers and
property utilizing water provided by the city. The terms PERSON and CUSTOMER as
used in the Plan include individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations
and all other legal entities.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.09 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   All rights, remedies, sanctions, penalties and enforcement procedures
provided for in this chapter are cumulative. In addition, the city shall have
and may exercise and enforce any and all rights and remedies provided by law or
in equity.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.10 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any provision, section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this chapter, or the application of same to any person or set of circumstances
is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, void, or invalid, the validity
of the remaining portions of this chapter or their application to other persons
or sets of circumstances shall not be affected thereby, it being the intent of
the City Council in adopting this chapter that no portion hereof or provision
or regulation contained herein shall become inoperative or fail by reason of
unconstitutionality, voidness or invalidity of any other portion hereof.
   (B)   All provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable for that
purpose.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.11 PUBLIC RECORD.
   This chapter shall be kept with the other records of the city by the
official custodian of the records of this city, and this chapter is hereby
declared to be a public record.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.12 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is promulgated pursuant to §§ 49.004 and 54.205, et. seq.,
Texas Water Code.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.13 REPEAL OF PRIOR ORDERS.
   Any and all prior orders or resolutions relating to water conservation,
drought and emergency contingency planning are hereby repealed, and this
chapter shall supersede any such prior orders or resolutions.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.14 RENEWAL AND UPDATE.
   The city shall renew and update, as appropriate, this Plan at least every
five years, based on new or updated information, such as adoption or revision
of any applicable regional water plan.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   The following penalties shall apply to anyone violating the terms of this
Plan or the drought response stages or emergency response stages adopted
pursuant hereto:
   (A)   First violation.
      (1)   Any person or entity who violates this Plan shall receive written
notification of such violation, which notice shall set forth:
         (a)   The date of the violation;
         (b)   The nature of the violation;
         (c)   The drought response stage then in effect; and
         (d)   The penalties applicable for any further violations of this
Plan.
      (2)   Provided, however, that if such person or entity has ever
previously violated the Plan, the penalties set forth in division (B) below,
may in the discretion of the City Council, be imposed.
   (B)   Subsequent violations.
      (1)   Disconnection for noncompliance. If any person or entity violates
any provision of this Plan more than one time (which violation shall constitute
an unauthorized use of city services and/or facilities), then in addition to
any other remedies, penalties, sanctions and enforcement procedures provided
for herein, the city shall have the right to terminate water service to such
person or entity after notice and any other procedural requirements in the
city's rate order are satisfied.
      (2)   Monetary penalties for noncompliance. If any person or entity
violates any provision of this Plan more than one time (which violation shall
constitute an unauthorized use of city services and/or facilities), then, in
addition to disconnection as provided in division (B)(1) above, the City
Council may impose a penalty of up to $5,000.00 for each violation of this
Plan. Each day that a breach of any provision of this Plan continues shall be
considered a separate violation. This penalty shall be in addition to any other
legal rights and remedies of the city as may be allowed by law.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-11,
passed 11-16-2021)
CHAPTER 53: FIRE SERVICE RATE
Section
   
53.01   Fire service rate
§ 53.01 FIRE SERVICE RATE.
   The rates shall be set at:
   (A)   Single family - $14
   (B)   Multi-family - $14
   (C)   Commercial - $63.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 9-8-2016; Ord. 2016-9, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2021-13,
passed 11-19-2021)
CHAPTER 54: DRAINAGE UTILITY SYSTEM
Section
   
54.01   Establishment
   
54.02   Drainage utility charges
§ 54.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The city adopts the Municipal Drainage Utility Systems Act and
declares the drainage of the city to be a public utility to be known as the
city’s Drainage Utility System.
   (B)   The existing drainage facilities, materials, and supplies currently
owned by the city are incorporated into the city’s Drainage Utility System.
   (C)   The entire corporate area of the city is determined to be the service
area of the city’s drainage utility system.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 54.02 DRAINAGE UTILITY CHARGES.
   (A)   Levy of charges. The City Council adopts the following Schedule of
Drainage Utility Charges and such charges are hereby levied on all residential
dwelling units, commercial property, and recreational property within the
boundaries of the city, all as provided in the Municipal Drainage Utility
Systems Act.
 
Property Type                  Drainage Utility Charge
                               (monthly)
All residential dwelling units $24
All commercial property        $60
All recreational property      $75
 
   (B)   Segregation of income. The city may transfer income in the drainage
utility system account in whole or in part to the municipal general fund,
except for any part pledged to retire any outstanding indebtedness or
obligation incurred or as a reserve for future construction, repair, or
maintenance of the city’s drainage utility system. The city shall not transfer
the segregated drainage utility income to the city’s general fund.
   (C)   Discontinuance of utility services. The user of the drainage utility
service shall be subject to discontinuance of all utility services provided by
the city upon failure to pay all drainage utility system charges promptly when
due. Billing and payment disputes for administrative issues relating to the
drainage utility charges shall be subject to appeals procedures used by the
city for other public utility billing and payment disputes.
   (D)   Due date; delinquency charges; billing procedures. Drainage utility
charges shall be a separate line item on the public utility statement and shall
be clearly identified as a separate charge. Drainage utility charges shall be
due and payable on the tenth day of the month following the issuance date on
the billing statement for drainage utility charges directed to the user of the
property. All drainage utility charges not paid when due shall be increased by
10% as a delinquency charge. In the event a drainage utility charge is paid by
check and the check is subsequently returned, unpaid, for any reason, a service
charge of $30 shall be assessed. Interest shall accrue upon delinquent drainage
utility charges at the maximum rate allowed by law from the due date until paid
in full.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 1-19-2021)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.01   Uniform specifications
   
70.02   Existing devices
   
70.03   Additional devices
   
70.04   Prima facie evidence
   
70.05   Unauthorized devices; nuisances
   
70.06   Exceptions to devices
   
70.07   Obedience to devices
   
70.08   Vandalism of devices
General Regulations
   
70.20   Exercising in the right-of-way
   
70.21   Traversing inundated streets with vehicle
 
   
70.99   Penalty
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.01 UNIFORM SPECIFICATIONS.
   All traffic-control devices, signs, signals and markings, including those
markings on pavement or on curbs, installed or used for the purpose of
directing, regulating, warning or guiding traffic and persons within the city
shall conform to the Texas Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices
specifications. All such traffic-control devices, signs, signals and markings
shall be uniform and located so far as practicable throughout the city
consistent with the manual.
(2004 Code, § 8-101) (Ord. 81-9, passed 4-9-1981)
§ 70.02 EXISTING DEVICES.
   All traffic-control devices, signs, signals and markings installed or
erected in the city consistent with the Texas Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control
Devices specifications, as of 4-9-1981, are deemed authorized and in effect.
(2004 Code, § 8-102) (Ord. 81-9, passed 4-9-1981)
§ 70.03 ADDITIONAL DEVICES.
   (A)   The City Secretary shall have the duty of erecting, installing or
causing to be erected or installed all traffic-control devices, signs, signals
and markings authorized by subsequent ordinances of the City Council. Such
traffic-control devices shall be installed immediately or as soon as the same
can be procured. Whenever the City Secretary has erected and installed any
traffic-control device, sign, signal or markings at any location in the city,
or have caused the same to be done at such official’s direction, the City
Secretary shall immediately file with the records of the city a statement
signed in their official capacity identifying the type of traffic-control
device, sign, signal or markings and where the same is located, erected or
installed.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, other than the City Secretary, acting
pursuant to this section, to install or cause to be installed any traffic-
control device, sign, signal or marking purporting to direct the use of the
streets or the activities on those streets of pedestrians, vehicles, motor
vehicles or animals.
(2004 Code, § 8-103) (Ord. 81-9, passed 4-9-1981) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   Any traffic-control device, sign, signal or marking actually in place shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the same was installed by the City
Secretary, pursuant to the authority of an ordinance directing such traffic-
control device.
(2004 Code, § 8-104) (Ord. 81-9, passed 4-9-1981)
§ 70.05 UNAUTHORIZED DEVICES; NUISANCES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of
any highway, street or alley, any unauthorized traffic-control device, sign,
signal or marking, which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles any
official traffic-control device, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any
traffic-control device.
      (2)   Further, no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public
authority permit upon any highway, street or alley, any traffic sign or signal
bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
(2004 Code, § 8-104)
   (B)   Every unauthorized traffic-control device, sign, signal or marking is
declared to be a public nuisance, and the Police Chief is empowered to remove
the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(2004 Code, § 8-106)
(Ord. 81-9, passed 4-9-1981) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 EXCEPTIONS TO DEVICES.
   Section
70.05(A) of this chapter shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon
private property adjacent to highways, streets or alleys, signs giving useful
directional information and of the type that cannot be mistaken for official
traffic-control devices.
(2004 Code, § 8-105) (Ord. 81-9, passed 4-9-1981)
§ 70.07 OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle, motor vehicle or animal shall obey any official
traffic-control device, sign, signal or marking erected or installed in
accordance with this subchapter, unless otherwise directed by a law enforcement
officer.
(2004 Code, § 8-107) (Ord. 81-9, passed 4-9-1981) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 VANDALISM OF DEVICES.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact vandalize,
alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control
device, sign, signal or marking.
(2004 Code, § 8-108) (Ord. 81-9, passed 4-9-1981) Penalty, see §
70.99
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.20 EXERCISING IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Walking, jogging, and running. It shall be unlawful for any person who
is walking, jogging, running in the right-of-way of streets within the
territorial limits of the city to fail to either wear reflective material on
his or her front and back, or to display a safety light (front and back) on or
above their person during the period beginning at sunset and ending at sunrise.
Such reflective material and safety light shall be of such size and
characteristics and so maintained as to be visible from all distances with 300
feet to 50 feet from such persons, when such person is directly in front of
lawful lower beam of vehicular headlamps. Examples of industry-approved
reflective material are, but not limited to, reflective safety vests and
reflective safety belts. Examples of industry-approved safety lights, are, but
not limited to LED belt lights, armband lights and headlamps. This section also
applies to pets, companion animals or assistance animals.
   (B)   Bicycling. It shall be unlawful for any person who is riding a bicycle
in the right-of-way of streets within the territorial limits of the city to
fail to display a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet in
front of the bicycle and either a red reflective light that is visible from 50
feet to 300 feet from the rear or a red light visible from a distance of 500
feet from the rear as per Tex. Transportation Code § 551.04 during the period
beginning at sunset and ending at sunrise.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 10-21-2014)
§ 70.21 TRAVERSING INUNDATED STREETS WITH VEHICLE.
   (A)   Traversing inundated street prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to traverse an inundated street
in an automobile, truck, boat, or other vehicle or vessel at such speed as to
create a wake therein that causes damage or increased flooding to the property
or premises adjoining such inundated street or streets.
      (2)   It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that the
vehicle being operated or driven was at the time in question an authorized
emergency vehicle or other city vehicle performing an authorized governmental
function.
      (3)   Inundated shall mean a street with water to the extent that water
covers the top of the curb on both sides of the street.
   (B)   Penalty for violation of section. A person who violates any provision
of this section shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and upon conviction
shall be fined an amount not exceeding $500.
   (C)   City of Palm Valley authority. In the event that it is declared that
the streets of the City of Palm Valley, Texas are inundated, the Mayor, Police
Chief and/or Public Works Supervisor shall have the authority to close some or
all of the streets of the City of Palm Valley by use of barricades, warning
signs or other similar method. For purposes of enforcement, the definition of
barricades and warning signs as used in this division is the same as used in
Tex. Transportation Code § 472.002.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of §§
70.01 through
70.08 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $1, nor more than $100, and
each single violation or failure to comply shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
70.20 shall be deemed guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and upon conviction shall
be fined up to $500 or other limits imposed by the Tex. Penal Code from time to
time.
(2004 Code, § 8-109) (Ord. 81-9, passed 4-9-1981; Ord. 2014-10, passed 10-21-
2014)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Trucks; Weight Limits
   
71.01   Definition
   
71.02   Exceptions
   
71.03   Prohibitions
   
71.04   Posting signs
   
71.05   Weigh-ins
Speed limits
   
71.15   City streets
 
   
71.99   Penalty
TRUCKS; WEIGHT LIMITS
§ 71.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRUCK. Any and all trucks, tractors, van trailers, semi-trailers, house
trailers, cement trucks, flat beds and/or any vehicle designed or operated for
the transportation of property, whose body weight or whose rated or licensed
combined body and load weight exceeds a maximum or 40,000 pounds, and load
weight exceeds a maximum of 6,000 pounds per axle.
(2004 Code, § 8-401) (Ord. 97-4, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 71.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not prohibit:
   (A)   Emergency vehicles. The operation of an emergency vehicle upon any
street in the city; and/or
   (B)   Public utilities. The operation of trucks owned or operated by the
city, public utilities or any contractor or materialperson, while engaged in
the repair, maintenance or construction of streets, street improvements or
street utilities within the city.
(2004 Code, § 8-402) (Ord. 97-4, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 71.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   No truck shall operate on any street of the city with these features:
   (A)   Combined truck and load weight of 40,000 pounds; and/or
   (B)   Load weight exceeding 6,000 pounds.
(2004 Code, § 8-403) (Ord. 97-4, passed 3-18-1997) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police shall cause the streets to have signs posted to give
notice of the prohibitions of this subchapter. No person shall be charged with
violating the provisions of this subchapter by reason of operating a truck upon
a street in the city unless appropriate signs are posted on such streets.
(2004 Code, § 8-404) (Ord. 97-4, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 71.05 WEIGH-INS.
   The Chief of Police and any city police officer shall have the authority to
require the person driving or in control of any commercial vehicle suspected of
being overweight to proceed to any public or private scale available for the
purpose of weighing and determining whether this subchapter has been complied
with, and such person’s failure or refusal to proceed as required shall
constitute a violation of this subchapter.
(2004 Code, § 8-405) (Ord. 97-4, passed 3-18-1997) Penalty, see §
71.99
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.15 CITY STREETS.
   (A)   The maximum speed limit for all motor vehicles on all municipal
streets within the city, with the exception of those parts of Dillworth Road
and Stuart Place Road that are within the city limits, is hereby set at 25
miles per hour.
   (B)   The City Street Department shall remove all current speed limit signs
and place new speed limit signs at the locations recommended by the City Police
Chief of the city to reflect the new maximum speed limit of 25 miles per hour
within the city.
   (C)   The speed limits set by this section shall be enforced by the City
Police Department beginning five days after the placement of the new speed
limit signs. Warning tickets may be issued during this five-day period.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any persons who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
71.01 through
71.05 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not to exceed $500.
(2004 Code, § 8-406) (Ord. 97-4, passed 3-18-1997)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Parking prohibited
   
72.03   Exceptions
   
72.04   Impoundment of vehicles
Parking on Public Streets During Certain Hours
   
72.15   Hours of parking prohibited
   
72.16   Exceptions
   
72.17   Towing vehicles
   
72.18   Issuance of temporary permit
   
72.19   Time limits of temporary permit
   
72.20   Information on temporary permit
   
72.21   Display of temporary permit
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DAY. A calendar day.
   VEHICLES. Includes, but is not limited to, automobiles, boats, trailers,
recreational vehicles, motorcycles, motorbikes, golf carts, camping units,
buses, commercial use trucks, small non-commercial passenger trucks or self-
propelled or towable, vehicles, equipment or machinery of any sort.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 72.02 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle, as defined in §
72.01 of this chapter, shall be permitted to park on any city street or on any
lot within the city limits, except in an enclosed structure, garage, carport or
behind a fence that has been approved and permitted by the Building and Permit
Committee. No vehicle as defined in §
72.01 of this chapter shall be permitted to be parked on the front or side yard
or lawn of a lot.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-11-2006) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Non-commercial personal/family automobiles or small non-commercial
passenger trucks, (licensed as such and up to and including three quarters of a
ton), motorcycles in operable condition and with current registration and
inspections stickers, and golf carts may be parked on a city street, subject to
other provisions of the code of ordinances, or parked on a lot, provided that
any such vehicle is parked on an improved driveway.
   (B)   Necessary construction vehicles may be parked on a city street,
subject to other provisions of the code of ordinances, or parked on a lot
within the city during the construction of improvements on such lot, from and
during the time of necessity therefore.
   (C)   Commercial use trucks may be parked on a city street or on an improved
driveway which has been approved by the Building and Permit Committee only
while making deliveries or pickups at a residence or business within the city
limits and only for so long as reasonably necessary to make such delivery or
pickup.
   (D)   If parked on an improved driveway which has been approved by the
Building and Permit Committee, recreational vehicles and boats may be parked on
a lot for a period of no more than three days or parts of three days during a
30 consecutive day time period. The 30 consecutive day time period begins on
the first day a recreational vehicle or boat is parked on the lot.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-11-2006; Ord. 2016-4, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 72.04 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   If any vehicle, as defined in §
72.01 of this chapter, remains in violation of this subchapter for more than 24
hours after the first citation for violation of this subchapter is issued by a
city police officer, said vehicle may be towed and impounded by the city.
   (B)   In order to recover said vehicle, the owner must, in addition to
paying the fine set out in §
72.99(B) of this chapter, pay all costs of the towing and storage of the
vehicle.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-11-2006)
PARKING ON PUBLIC STREETS DURING CERTAIN HOURS
§ 72.15 HOURS OF PARKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park a vehicle on any public
street between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(2004 Code, § 8-501) (Ord. 96-7, passed 1-21-1996) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 EXCEPTIONS.
   The prohibitions of this subchapter shall not apply to recreational vehicles
or other vehicles parked in compliance with §
72.15 of this chapter.
(2004 Code, § 8-502) (Ord. 96-7, passed 1-21-1996)
§ 72.17 TOWING VEHICLES.
   The Police Department of the city is authorized to cause vehicles parked in
violation of this subchapter to be towed at the expense of the owners or
operators of such vehicles.
(2004 Code, § 8-503) (Ord. 96-7, passed 1-21-1996)
§ 72.18 ISSUANCE OF TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   It is recognized that special or emergency circumstances may exist whereby
it becomes necessary for a resident or a resident’s guest(s) to temporarily
park a vehicle on public streets at restricted times. The purpose of this
section is to accommodate said resident and resident’s guests on a temporary
basis and is not meant to permit a resident and/or resident’s guest(s) to usurp
the general prohibition against parking on a public street as provided in §
72.15. Accordingly, upon request, city police officers or its personnel are
authorized to issue up to two permits per residence authorizing the parking of
a non-resident's vehicle on a public street within the city during the
prohibited hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 7-16-2013; Ord. 2017-1, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 72.19 TIME LIMITS OF TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   Permits may be issued for no more than three consecutive nights in a 30-day
period. The city Police Chief, Mayor or Acting Mayor are authorized to approve
exceptions to this section at their discretion.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 7-16-2013; Ord. 2017-1, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 72.20 INFORMATION ON TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   All pertinent information of the vehicle including make, model, year, color,
license plate number and owners name shall be contained in the permit.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 72.21 DISPLAY OF TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard of the vehicle on the
driver's side.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 7-16-2013) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
72.01 through
72.04 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than $1, nor more than $100, for each
offense and each day during which such violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who stops or parks a vehicle in violation of §§
72.15 through
72.17 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $200.
(2004 Code, § 8-504)
(Ord. 96-7, passed 1-21-1996; Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-11-2006)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise posted, the maximum speed limits for all vehicular
traffic within the city are as follows:
 
Street/Location                                                   Speed Limit
Palm Valley Drive East                                            30 mph
Palm Valley Drive North                                           30 mph
Palm Valley Drive South                                           30 mph
Palm Valley Drive West                                            30 mph
Stuart Place Road, which is within the incorporated boundaries of 45 mph
the city
All other designated and platted town streets                     25 mph
 
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
   (B)   It shall be a prima facie violation for any person or vehicle to
exceed the maximum speed limits designated in this schedule.
(Prior Code, § 8-202)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with the speed limits
imposed in this schedule shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $1, nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
(Ord. 81-10, passed 4-9-1981)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Secretary is hereby authorized to cause to be erected or
installed a stop sign to be located on the eastbound lane of El Camino Real, 59
feet from the western city limits.
   (B)   Any person who shall fail to obey such stop sign shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less than $1, nor more
than $100.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 1-17-2005)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   FIREWORKS
      
92.   LITTERING
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
94.   JUNKED VEHICLES
      
95.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
96.   EVENTS AND CELEBRATIONS
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
   
90.01   Definition and declaration
   
90.02   Notice to property owner
   
90.03   Abatement by city; contract; immediate action
   
90.04   Preparation and mailing of notices and bills
   
90.05   Collection of funds
   
90.06   Liens
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITION AND DECLARATION.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot or other real property in the city
which abuts an alley or along Dilworth Road shall maintain the area between the
property line and the pavement of such alley or abutting the pavement of
Dilworth Road along the city limits of Palm Valley in a condition free from
accumulation of weeds, rubbish or any other unsightly, objectionable, or
unsanitary matter.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any property
in the city to maintain or permit limbs of trees growing thereon to overhang or
grow above the area between his or her property line and the curb line of any
abutting street, unless such limbs and all branches and foliage thereon is kept
trimmed and pruned to a minimum clearance of 14 feet above the center of the
nearest abutting street, or to such higher clearance as will provide an
unobstructed view of traffic, intersections, traffic signs and traffic-control
devices to oncoming traffic.
      (2)   It shall the duty of the City Secretary to cause a written notice
to be sent to the owner or occupant, at his or her last known address, of any
property upon which violation of this section exists to correct such condition
as constitutes a violation of this section with ten days after receiving such
notice.
      (3)   If after receiving notice of a condition that is a violation of
this section, the owner or occupant of any property upon which any violation of
this section exists does not correct or cause to be corrected such violations
within ten days the City Secretary is authorized to correct by whatever means
necessary, the violation occurring on or over the street right of way.
   (C)   Any condition on private property which endangers the public health,
safety or welfare including, but not limited to, an accumulation of trash,
rubbish, debris, carrion, filth, brush or stagnant water on such property or
the unsightly and uncontrolled growth of weeds, or any other plant material on
private property to the degree that it constitutes a fire or health hazard are
hereby found and determined to be public nuisances and subject to abatement.
(2004 Code, § 6-201) (Ord. 2002-3, passed 12-9-2002; Ord. 2013-4, passed 7-16-
2013; Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 90.02 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER.
   Whenever the existence of any nuisance defined in §
90.01 of this chapter on any lots or parcels of real estate situated within the
city shall come to the knowledge of the Chief of Police, it shall be his or her
duty to forthwith cause a written notice identifying such property to be issued
to the person owning the same. Such notice shall be addressed to such person at
his or her post office address or by publication as many as two times within
ten consecutive days, if personal service may not be had or if the owner’s
address is not known, requiring the abatement of such nuisance by grubbing and
removing such weeds, brush, rubbish or other objectionable, unsightly or
unsanitary matter of whatever nature, as the case may be, or by filling in,
draining, leveling or otherwise regulating such lots or parcels of real estate
so as to prevent stagnant water standing therein, within ten days from the
service of such notice. Such notice shall further state that in default of the
performance of the above condition, the city may, at once, cause the same to be
done and pay therefore, and charge the cost and expense incurred in doing or
having such work done, or improvements made, to the owner of such property.
(2004 Code, § 6-202) (Ord. 2002-3, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 90.03 ABATEMENT BY CITY; CONTRACT; IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   (A)   In the event of the failure, refusal or neglect of the owner or
occupant of any premises or property to cause such nuisance to be removed or
abated in the manner and within the time provided, it shall be the duty of the
City Secretary to cause the weeds, brush, rubbish or other unsanitary matter or
condition constituting a nuisance, to be promptly and summarily abated, in a
reasonable and prudent manner, at the expense of the city. The City Secretary
or his or her duly authorized representatives shall carefully compile the cost
of such work done and improvements made in abating such nuisance, and shall
charge the same against the owner of the premises. The City Council hereby
finds and declares that general overhead and administrative expense of
inspection, locating owner, issuing notice, reinspection and ordering work
done, together with all necessary incidents of same, require the reasonable
charge of $100 for each lot, series of two or more adjacent and contiguous
lots, or tract or parcel of acreage, and such minimum charge is hereby
established and declared to be an expense of such work and improvement.
Notwithstanding, therefore, any tabulation of recorded cost, a minimum charge
of $100 shall be assessed against each lot so improved under the terms of the
provisions of this section, but such some of $100 is hereby expressly stated to
be a minimum charge only, and shall have no application when the tabulated cost
of the work done shall exceed such minimum charge. After charging the same
against the owner of the premises, the City Secretary shall certify a statement
of such expenses. For any such expenditures, and interest as aforesaid, suit
may be instituted by the City Attorney and recovery had in the name of the
city; and the statement so made, as aforesaid, or a certified copy thereof,
shall be prima face proof of the amount expended in any such work or
improvements.
(2004 Code, § 6-203)
   (B)   The city shall have the right to award any quantity of work authorized
to a general contractor whose bid shall be accepted by the City Council as the
lowest and best secured bid for the doing of the work herein mentioned during a
stipulated time not to exceed one year.
(2004 Code, § 6-204)
   (C)   In additions to the remedies prescribed above, and cumulative thereof,
if it shall be brought to the attention of the City Council and shall by the
Council be determined that any such nuisance, or nuisances, are likely to have
an immediate adverse effect upon the public health, comfort or safety, then and
in that event, the City Council may, by appropriate resolution or motion, order
such nuisance or nuisances summarily abated by the city in a reasonably prudent
manner.
(2004 Code, § 6-205)
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 90.04 PREPARATION AND MAILING OF NOTICES AND BILLS.
   All notices to cut weeds or abate any nuisance under the foregoing
provisions, and all statements evidencing costs to the city for cutting weeds
or abatement of nuisances, upon failure, refusal or neglect of the owner to cut
weeds or abate the nuisance after having been notified to do so, as well as all
other clerical work incident to enforcement of the provisions of the foregoing
sections, shall be prepared and mailed by the City Secretary or the Mayor.
(2004 Code, § 6-206) (Ord. 2002-3, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 90.05 COLLECTION OF FUNDS.
   All payments of money by and collections of money, if any, from property
owners for the purpose of paying the city for expenses in abating nuisances as
provided for in the foregoing sections shall be deposited in the General Fund
of the city. Such receipts and the necessary records in connection therewith
shall be prepared and handled and maintained as a permanent record and such
sums of money shall be handled, all in the form and manner prescribed by the
City Secretary.
(2004 Code, § 6-207) (Ord. 2002-3, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 90.06 LIENS.
   The Mayor shall have the authority to certify a statement of the expenses in
abating such nuisance and shall file the same with the County Clerk. When
filed, such statement of expenses shall have a privileged lien thereon, second
only to tax liens and liens for street improvements to secure the expenditure
so made and 10% interest on the amount from the date of such payment. For such
expenditure, and interest, as aforesaid, suit may be instituted and foreclosure
had in the name of the city; and the statement so made, as aforesaid, or
certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie proof of the amount expended in
any such work or improvements. Upon satisfaction that the debt or portion
thereof secured by the lien has been paid in full to the city, such lien shall
be released upon request only insofar as it affects the property for which the
debt secured thereby has been paid in full. A fee for furnishing said release
shall be charged.
(2004 Code, § 6-209) (Ord. 2002-3, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any owner, lessee or occupant, whether a natural person or a corporation, or
any agent, representative or employee of any such owner, lessee or occupant,
including any person having ownership, occupancy or control of any premises or
lot or lots or parcel of real estate or any part thereof, or any interest
therein, or improvements thereon, situated within the limits of the city, on
which there exists any nuisance as defined in the foregoing sections, who shall
allow or permit any such nuisance to be created or to remain and continue, if
created and established, or who shall fail, refuse or neglect to remove or
abate such nuisance, by one of the methods provided in the foregoing sections
or otherwise regulating such premises, so as to prevent such a nuisance, within
ten days from the date of service of notice thereof as provided for in the
foregoing sections, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $1,000, and
each day during which such failure, refusal or neglect shall continue to exist,
shall constitute a separate offense.
(2004 Code, § 6-208) (Ord. 2002-3, passed 12-9-2002)
CHAPTER 91: FIREWORKS
Section
   
91.01   Sale, possession and use prohibited
   
91.02   Definition
   
91.03   Seizure
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 SALE, POSSESSION AND USE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, store, to offer for sale,
expose for sale, sell at retail or use or explode any fireworks in the city
limits or within the city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(2004 Code, § 6-301) (Ord. 81-12, passed 5-8-1981; Ord. 2004-2, passed 1-19-
2004)
§ 91.02 DEFINITION.
   The term FIREWORKS shall mean and include any combustible or explosive
composition, or any substance or combination of substances, or articles
prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by
combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation, and shall include blank
cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes or toy guns in which explosives
are used, the type of unmanned balloons which require fire underneath to propel
the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, smoke bombs,
chasers, sparklers or other fireworks of common name or of like constructions
and any fireworks containing any explosive or flammable compound, or any
tablets or other device containing any explosive substance; except that, the
term FIREWORKS shall not include toy pistols, toy guns or other devices in
which paper and/or plastic caps containing not in excess of an average of
twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive content per cap manufactured in
accordance with the United States Department of Transportation regulations for
packing and shipping of toy paper and/or plastic caps are used and toy paper
and/or plastic caps manufactured as provided therein, the sale and use of which
shall be permitted at all times. Each package containing toy paper and/or
plastic caps offered for retail sale shall be labeled to indicate the maximum
explosive content per cap.
(2004 Code, § 6-302) (Ord. 81-12, passed 5-8-1981; Ord. 2004-2, passed 1-19-
2004)
§ 91.03 SEIZURE.
   Any city police officer shall seize, take, remove or cause to be removed at
the expense of the owner or the person there possessed, all stocks of fireworks
exposed or offered for sale, stored, possessed or used.
(2004 Code, § 6-303) (Ord. 81-12, passed 5-8-1981; Ord. 2004-2, passed 1-19-
2004)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with this chapter concerning
fireworks shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $1, nor more than $500.
(2004 Code, § 6-304) (Ord. 81-12, passed 5-8-1981; Ord. 2004-2, passed 1-19-
2004)
CHAPTER 92: LITTERING
Section
   
92.01   Prohibition
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited
   
92.04   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles
   
92.05   Truck loads causing litter
   
92.06   Owner to maintain premises free of litter
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place or on any private property, whether owned by such person or
not, within the limits of the city, except in public or private receptacles for
collection.
(2004 Code, § 6-401) (Ord. 81-13, passed 5-8-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish, as defined herein, and all other waste
materials which, if thrown or deposited as above prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety or welfare.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any platted lot within the city limits, improved or
unimproved, occupied or unoccupied.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, alleys or other public ways
and any and all public spaces, grounds and buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, (except body
wastes) including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals and
solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
non-combustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, bottles, yard clippings leaves, wood, grass, crockery and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, or upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported upon a street or highway.
(2004 Code, § 6-402) (Ord. 81-13, passed 5-8-1981)
§ 92.03 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sweep or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place
within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any
public or private sidewalk or driveway.
(2004 Code, § 6-403) (Ord. 81-13, passed 5-8-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street, other public place or upon private property.
(2004 Code, § 6-404) (Ord. 81-13, passed 5-8-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the
city unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street or alley or
other public place, or upon private property.
   (B)   Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within the
city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street or
alley, or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign
matter of any kind.
(2004 Code, § 6-405) (Ord. 81-13, passed 5-8-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall, at all times,
maintain the premises free of litter.
(2004 Code, § 6-406) (Ord. 81-13, passed 5-8-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not less
than $50, nor more than $500. Each day such violation is committed or permitted
to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder.
(2004 Code, § 6-407) (Ord. 81-13, passed 5-8-1981; Ord. 2017-12, passed 11-13-
2017)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
93.01   Bonfires, burning trash and the like prohibited
   
93.02   Disposal of waste materials by burning prohibited
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Service Rate, see
Chapter 53
§ 93.01 BONFIRES, BURNING TRASH AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or fire consisting of trash,
rubbish, brush and or garbage or authorize any such fire to be kindled or
maintained on any private land within the city.
(2004 Code, § 6-501) (Ord. 84-2, passed 2-7-1984) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 DISPOSAL OF WASTE MATERIALS BY BURNING PROHIBITED.
   During or after construction or demolition of buildings or structures, no
waste materials or rubbish or garbage shall be disposed of by burning it on the
premises or in the immediate vicinity if said premises or immediate vicinity is
inside the city.
(2004 Code, § 6-502) (Ord. 84-2, passed 2-7-1984) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $1 and
no more than $100 for each offense. Each day during such violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(2004 Code, § 6-503) (Ord. 84-2, passed 2-7-1984)
CHAPTER 94: JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
94.01   Regulation; declaration of public nuisance
   
94.02   Unlawful to create or maintain a public nuisance
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Notice to abate nuisance on private property
   
94.05   Notice to abate nuisance on public property
   
94.06   Relocation of junked vehicle after proceedings have commenced
   
94.07   Hearing in Municipal Court; order of Municipal Judge
   
94.08   Removal of vehicle
   
94.09   Vehicle not to be made operable
   
94.10   Notice to State Department of Transportation
   
94.11   Administration
   
94.12   Exceptions
   
94.13   Sale or display of vehicle
   
94.14   Authority to enforce
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 REGULATION; DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Junked vehicles, including a part of a junked vehicle, which are located
anywhere in the city where they are visible at any time of the year from a
public place or public right-of-way are detrimental to the safety and welfare
of the general public, tend to reduce the value of private property, invite
vandalism, create fire hazards, constitute an attractive nuisance creating a
hazard to the health and safety of minors and are detrimental to the economic
welfare of the city as a whole by producing urban blight adverse to the
maintenance and continuing development of the city, and such junked vehicles
are therefore declared to be a public nuisance and subject to abatement by the
city.
(2004 Code, § 6-801) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 94.02 UNLAWFUL TO CREATE OR MAINTAIN A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A person commits an offense if the person maintains a public nuisance
described in §
94.01 of this chapter after notice to abate and remove such nuisance.
(2004 Code, § 6-802) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE AUTO. A passenger car or truck that is at least 25 years old.
   CITY. The City of Palm Valley.
   JUNKED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled and:
      (1)   Does not have lawfully attached to:
         (a)   An unexpired license plat; or
         (b)   A valid motor vehicle inspection certificate.
      (2)   Is:
         (a)   Wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled or discarded; or
         (b)   Inoperable and has remained inoperable for more than:
            1.   Seventy-two consecutive hours, if the vehicle is on public
property; or
            2.   Thirty consecutive days, if the vehicle is on private
property.
   MOTOR VEHICLE COLLECTOR. The owner of one or more antique or special
interest vehicles and who acquires, collects or disposes of an antique or
special interest vehicle or parts of them for personal use to restore and
preserve an antique or special interest vehicle for historic interest.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of city.
   SPECIAL INTEREST VEHICLE. A motor vehicle of any age that has not been
changed from the original manufacturer’s specifications and, because of its
historic interest, is being preserved by hobbyists.
   STORAGE FACILITY. A garage, parking lot or establishment for the servicing,
repairing or parking of motor vehicles.
(2004 Code, § 6-803) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 94.04 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the Chief of Police of the
city that a public nuisance, as above defined, is being maintained on private
property, the Chief of Police or his or her agent shall send or cause to be
sent to the last known registered owner of the junked vehicle any lienholder of
record and the owner or occupant of the private premises on which the public
nuisance exists a notice stating the nature of the pubic nuisance and that it
must be removed and abated within ten days from the date of mailing or personal
delivery of said notice and further advising that a request for a hearing must
be made before the expiration of the ten-day period.
   (B)   (1)   The notice herein provided to be sent by the Chief of Police or
his or her agent shall be sent by certified mail with a five-day return
requested. If the post office address of the last known registered owner of the
junked vehicle is unknown, notice to the last known registered owner may be
placed on the junked vehicle or, if the last known registered owner is
physically located, the notice may be hand delivered.
      (2)   If the notice is returned undelivered by the United States Postal
Service, official action to abate the nuisance shall be continued to a date not
earlier than the eleventh day after the date of the return.
(2004 Code, § 6-804) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 94.05 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the Chief of Police of the
city that a public nuisance, as herein defined, is being maintained on public
property or on a public right-of-way, the Chief of Police or his or her agent
shall send or cause to be sent to the last known registered owner of the junked
vehicle any lien holder of record and to the owner or occupant of the public
premises or to the owner or occupant of the private premises adjacent to the
public right-of-way on which the public nuisance exists a notice stating the
nature of the public nuisance and that it must be removed and abated within ten
days from the date of mailing or personal delivery of said notice and further
advising that a request for a hearing must be made before expiration of the
ten-day period.
   (B)   (1)   The notice herein to be sent by the Chief of Police or his or
her agent shall be sent by certified mail with a five-day return requested.
      (2)   If the post office address of the last known registered owner of
the junked vehicle is unknown, notice to the last known owner may be place on
the junked vehicle or, if the last known registered owner is physically
located, the notice may be hand delivered.
      (3)   If the notice is returned undelivered by the United States Postal
Service, official action to abate the nuisance shall be continued to a date not
earlier than the eleventh day after the date of return.
(2004 Code, § 6-805) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 94.06 RELOCATION OF JUNKED VEHICLE AFTER PROCEEDINGS HAVE COMMENCED.
   The relocation of a junked vehicle that is a public nuisance to another
location in the city after a proceeding for the abatement and removal of the
public nuisance has commenced has no effect on the proceeding if the junked
vehicle constitutes a public nuisance at the new location.
(2004 Code, § 6-806) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 94.07 HEARING IN MUNICIPAL COURT; ORDER OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   If timely requested by any party entitled to notice under the foregoing
sections, a hearing shall be held before the Municipal Judge of the city not
earlier than the eleventh day after the date of the service of the notice and
prior to the removal of the vehicle or part thereof. At the hearing, it shall
be presumed, unless demonstrated otherwise by the owner, that the vehicle is
inoperable. After such hearing, should the Municipal Judge determine that a
public nuisance is being maintained upon the property in question, he or she
shall include a description of the vehicle and the vehicle identification
number and license number of the vehicle if the information is available at the
site.
(2004 Code, § 6-807) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 94.08 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   If no hearing is requested as provided above, it shall be the
duty of the person notified to comply with the provisions of the notice given
and to abate such nuisance within ten days after the date of receipt of such
notice.
      (2)   If a hearing is requested, as provided above, and an order of
removal is entered by the Municipal Judge, it shall be the duty of the person
requesting the hearing to comply with the order of removal and to remove and
abate such nuisance within ten days from the entry of such order.
   (B)   If such nuisance is not abated within the time period allowed, the
Chief of Police, or any person duly authorized by the Chief of Police and
acting under his or her direction, may remove or cause to be removed, the
vehicle or part thereof to the city storage area or a storage facility.
(2004 Code, § 6-808) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 94.09 VEHICLE NOT TO BE MADE OPERABLE.
   After the vehicle has been removed under the terms of this chapter, it shall
not be reconstructed or made operable.
(2004 Code, § 6-809) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 NOTICE TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION.
   The Chief of Police or his or her agent shall give notice to the State
Department of Transportation within five days after the date of removal,
identifying the vehicle or part thereof so removed for cancellation of the
certificate of title to the vehicle.
(2004 Code, § 6-810) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 94.11 ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered by regularly salaried, full-time
employees of the city; except that, the removal of junked vehicles or parts
thereof may be by any other duly authorized person.
(2004 Code, § 6-811) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 94.12 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply:
   (A)   To a vehicle or vehicle part that is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; and/or
   (B)   To a vehicle or vehicle part that is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with a business of a licensed vehicle
dealer or junkyard, or to an antique and special interest vehicle stored by a
motor vehicle collector on the collector’s property, if the vehicle and the
outdoor storage area are maintained in an orderly manner so that they do not
constitute a health hazard and are screened from ordinary public view by means
of a fence, rapidly growing trees, shrubbery or other appropriate means.
(2004 Code, § 6-812) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 94.13 SALE OR DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE.
   The city may finally dispose of a junked vehicle or vehicle part or transfer
the junked vehicle to another disposal site if the disposal is scrap or salvage
only when any junked vehicle has been removed by the Chief of Police to the
storage area of the city, or other storage facility and has remained in such
storage area for ten days or more. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police
to dispose of the same by removal to a scrap yard or by sale to a demolisher
for the highest bid or offer received, or to remove the same to any suitable
site operated by the city for processing as scrap or salvage. Should the junked
vehicle be sold to a demolisher or as salvage, the proceeds of such sale shall
first be applied to the cost of removal and storage and the balance, if any,
shall be paid to the person entitled thereto, either lien holder or owner.
(2004 Code, § 6-813) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 94.14 AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE.
   The Chief of Police or his or her duly authorized agent may enter upon
private property for the purposes specified in this chapter and to examine the
vehicle or parts thereof, obtain information as to the identity of vehicles or
parts thereof, and to remove or cause to be removed a vehicle or parts thereof
declared to be a nuisance. The Municipal Court of the city shall have the power
and authority to issue all orders necessary to enforce the procedures
established by this chapter.
(2004 Code, § 6-814) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person
directed to remove or abate a nuisance to fail or refuse to comply therewith or
to fail to remove such junked vehicle within the time provided for in the
notice sent under this chapter, or by the order of the Municipal Judge.
   (B)   An offense under this chapter is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine
not to exceed $200, and each and every day this chapter is violated shall
constitute a separate offense.
(2004 Code, § 6-815) (Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-19-2004)
CHAPTER 95: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
95.01   Dogs and cats restricted
   
95.02   Defecation control
   
95.03   Noisy animals
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DOGS AND CATS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for dogs and cats to run loose within the city.
(2004 Code, § 3-101) (Ord. 85-4, passed 5-21-1985) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 DEFECATION CONTROL.
   Any owner of an animal that defecates on any lot used as a residence, on any
condominium grounds, on any city property between the residence and the street,
including the street, and on any vacant lot or any other property not owned by
the owner of the animal shall properly remove such defecation to an acceptable
receptacle.
(2004 Code, § 3-201) (Ord. 97-7, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 2000-3, passed 4-20-
2000) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 NOISY ANIMALS.
   (A)   Prohibiting animals which make frequent or long continued noise. It
shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any dog or other animal
which makes frequent or long continued noise which is disturbing to persons of
normal nervous sensibilities and ordinary tastes, habits and modes of living in
the vicinity thereof.
(2004 Code, § 3-301)
   (B)   Filing and investigation of complaint. Upon the filing of a complaint
by a person alleging violation of the provisions of division (A) above with the
City Police Department, the Police Department shall investigate said complaint.
(2004 Code, § 3-302)
   (C)   Warning and citation. Upon determination by the investigating police
officer that a violation of the provisions of division (A) above, the
investigating police office shall upon the first violation issue a written
warning to the violator. Upon the second violation by the same person or
persons, the investigating police officer shall issue a citation.
(2004 Code, § 3-303)
(Ord. 2000-7, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
95.01 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than $1, nor more than $100, for each
such offense.
(2004 Code, § 3-102)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
95.02 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than $1, nor more than $500, for each
such offense.
(2004 Code, § 3-202)
   (D)   A violation of the provisions of §
95.03 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $10 and no
more than $200.
(2004 Code, § 3-304)
(Ord. 85-4, passed 5-21-1985; Ord. 97-7, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 2000-3, passed
4-20-2000; Ord. 2000-7, passed - -2000)
CHAPTER 96: EVENTS AND CELEBRATIONS
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Permit required
   
96.04   Application for permit
   
96.05   Permit application requirements
   
96.06   Fees and costs
   
96.07   Timeframes and deadlines
   
96.08   Application process and review
   
96.09   Standards for issuance of special event permit
   
96.10   Denial or revocation of a permit
   
96.11   Appeal
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The city recognizes the need to encourage and promote events for the greater
good, cultural diversity and promotion of the city. Some gatherings and
organized activities, due to their size and special requirements, may place
unique demands on public resources or pose a danger to public health, safety
and welfare. In order to plan for these demands on public resources and ensure
that public health and safety is protected, it is necessary that the city
receive advance notice of these events. The provisions of this chapter are
intended to address those concerns and are not intended to place unnecessary
burdens on any right of association or freedom of expression.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 3-16-2016)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person who has filed a written application for a special event
permit.
   CITY. The City of Palm Valley, Texas.
   CITY PARK. Any property in the city designated as a park, playground,
recreational facility, swimming pool or hike and bike path, and shall include
buildings, parking lots and driveways in such areas.
   FIRST AMENDMENT EVENT. An event where the sole or principal object is First
Amendment activity.
   PARADE. Any assembly, march, demonstration or procession upon public streets
within the city including persons, animals, or vehicles that is reasonably
likely to interfere with the normal flow or regulation of traffic.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a special event permit is granted pursuant to
this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, entity, association or organization.
   SEASONAL SPECIAL EVENT. An event that occurs in a specific season and is
scheduled throughout the season on non-sequential days, using a single special
event permit.
   SPECIAL EVENT. A temporary event, gathering or organized activity, including
but not limited to parades, bike races, marathons, walk-a-thons, fireworks
displays, concerts, carnivals, other types of races and festivals, First
Amendment Events, and Seasonal Special Events which involve one or more of the
following activities:
      (1)   Closing a public street;
      (2)   Blocking or restricting city-owned property;
      (3)   Blocking or restricting access to city parks unless otherwise
authorized by the city;
      (4)   Sale of merchandise, food or beverages on city-owned property;
      (5)   Erection of a tent equal to or greater than 200 square feet in area
on city-owned property;
      (6)   Installation of a stage, band-shell, trailer, van, portable
building, grandstand or bleachers on city-owned property;
      (7)   Placement of portable toilets on city-owned property;
      (8)   Placement of temporary no-parking signs in a public right-of-way or
on city-owned property; or
      (9)   Placement of pedestrian boundary markers on city-owned property.
   SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS. Written authorization from the Mayor or designee to
hold a special event.
   SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT APPLICATION. Includes the Preliminary Special Event
Permit Application and the Final Special Event Permit Application.
   SPECIAL EVENT RULES AND REGULATIONS. The guidelines, rules, regulations,
policies and procedures developed and adopted administratively by the Mayor or
designee for the health, safety and welfare of citizens and special event
attendees. Special event rules and regulations may include, but are not limited
to the following: processes; procedures; cost recovery for public safety,
sanitation and transportation personnel; safety regulations; resource
requirements; and surety and insurance requirements.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 3-16-2016)
§ 96.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold a special event, sponsor a
special event or cause a special event to be held without first having obtained
a special event permit from the city.
   (B)   No special event permit shall be denied, nor shall the applicant be
given less favorable consideration as to time, manner, or place based upon:
      (1)   Race, color, creed, religion, gender, domestic relationship status,
parental status, sexual orientation, transgender, gender identity or gender
expression, national origin, or political affiliation of the applicant and/or
the participants of the special event;
      (2)   The message of the special event, or the identity or associational
relationships of the applicant and/or participants; or
      (3)   Any assumption or predictions as to the amount of hostility which
may be aroused in the public by the content of speech or message conveyed by
the special event, provided that reasonable accommodation as to time, manner,
and place may be required in order for the city to provide the resources
necessary for police, fire and emergency services to preserve and protect
public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   A special event permit is not required for:
      (1)   Any city-sponsored event in which the City of Palm Valley is a
participant, sponsor, or active organizer of the event, regardless of whether
the event is located on city-owned property or private property;
      (2)   Property owned or controlled by the city subject to a contract,
lease or management/operating agreement with a private party where the
agreement addresses events on the property or the event is included within the
permitted uses in the agreement;
      (3)   Processions of vehicles operated in compliance with ordinary
traffic laws or a procession of pedestrians along or upon public sidewalks,
public parks, or private property;
      (4)   First Amendment activity conducted entirely on sidewalks, in public
parks or on private property; or
      (5)   Events conducted under the supervision of, or with the permission
of, a governmental entity on property owned, leased, or operated by a
governmental entity other than the city, if the event does not require the
closing or rerouting of a public street, the entity employs certified peace
officers to provide security for the event, and the entity adopts and provides,
to the city, a written plan addressing emergency services, crowd, traffic and
parking control.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 3-16-2016)
§ 96.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A special event permit shall not be issued until a completed Special Event
Permit Application, together with any additional information requested, and
payments of all applicable fees are received by the city. The Special Event
Permit Application must comply with this chapter, the special event rules and
regulations, and other applicable law.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 3-16-2016)
§ 96.05 PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicant shall file a Preliminary Special Event Permit Application
and a Final Special Event Permit Application with the city upon forms provided
by the city.
   (B)   The Preliminary Special Event Permit Application shall set forth, as a
minimum, the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
name, address and telephone number of the applicant's designated representative
if applicant is an entity, association or organization;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of the person conducting the
special event if different from the applicant, with a written statement from
the person conducting the special event showing the applicant's authority to
make the Special Event Permit Application;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the event representative and who will be responsible for conducting the special
event;
      (4)   The proposed location(s) for the special event;
      (5)   The purpose of the special event;
      (6)   The date(s) and time(s) the special event will start and terminate;
and
      (7)   The time at which on-site activities in preparation for the special
event will begin.
   (C)   The Final Special Event Permit Application shall set forth, as a
minimum, the following information, if applicable, in addition to the
Preliminary Special Event Permit Application information:
      (1)   The date when clean up of the property will be complete;
      (2)   The proposed parking areas and number of parking spaces provided;
      (3)   The approximate number of persons who are attending per day for the
duration of the special event;
      (4)   The number and types of animals and vehicles that are part of the
special event;
      (5)   The location and size of tents, awnings, canopies, food service
booths, or other temporary structures shall be shown on a map;
      (6)   Details for all signage shall be included;
      (7)   The location and orientation of loud speakers and any other
amplification devices shall be shown on a map;
      (8)   Details regarding food service including planned cooking;
      (9)   Details regarding whether alcohol will be sold or allowed;
      (10)   Details for planned amusement rides;
      (11)   Details regarding any traffic control plan;
      (12)   Map(s) showing streets and pedestrian ways that are impacted, as
well as site setup indicating all equipment that will be used by the special
event; and
      (13)   Proof of insurance for the special event.
      (14)   For parades, also include:
         (a)   A route map;
         (b)   Approximate number of participants and type of participants (ex.
animals, floats, etc.); and
         (c)   Proof that all property owners adjacent to the parade route have
been notified of the route, date and duration of the parade.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 3-16-2016)
§ 96.06 FEES AND COSTS.
   (A)   Applicant shall pay all required fees with the Special Event Permit
Application. Applicant shall also be required to pay all fees and costs
required by other city ordinances to conduct specific activities in conjunction
with or as part of a special event.
   (B)   If the city determines that a special event may require the special
attention and involvement of city personnel or city facilities, the city shall
notify the applicant. Prior to issuance of a special event permit:
      (1)   Applicant and city shall agree upon the additional costs the city
will incur as a result of the special event and applicant shall pay those costs
to the city; and
      (2)   Applicant shall agree in writing to pay any additional costs to the
city incurred as a result of the special event within five days of the date
upon which the city informs the applicant of the amount of such additional
costs.
   (C)   No special event permit fee shall be charged for a First Amendment
Event. An applicant for a special event permit shall pay fees for street
closures to conduct specific activities in conjunction with, or as part of, a
First Amendment Event, but the amount of the fees shall not be in excess of the
city's cost to close the street(s) for traffic control.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 3-16-2016)
§ 96.07 TIMEFRAMES AND DEADLINES.
   (A)   A Preliminary Special Event Permit Application shall be filed not more
than 365 days before the commencement of the proposed special event.
   (B)   A Final Special Event Permit Application shall be filed no less than
45 days, nor more than 365 days, before the commencement of the proposed
special event. The Mayor or designee may consider a Final Special Event
Application that is filed less than 45 days before the commencement of the
proposed special event where good and compelling cause is shown.
   (C)   The city may issue a special event permit for a First Amendment Event
when the Final Special Event Permit Application is filed less than 45 days
before the commencement of the First Amendment Event provided there is adequate
time for the city to process the application and to assure that there are
adequate traffic measures in place for the orderly movement of the First
Amendment Event participants and traffic. The city and the applicant shall
communicate with the Police Department prior to the First Amendment Event.
   (D)   When a timeframe or deadline established in this section resulted in
an application being due on a weekend, holiday or a day the city is closed for
business, the application shall be due on the business day immediately
following said weekend, holiday or closed business day.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 3-16-2016)
§ 96.08 APPLICATION PROCESS AND REVIEW.
   The Special Event Permit Application will be processed and reviewed pursuant
to the special event rules and regulations. The Mayor or designee may appoint
an Events Committee or an individual designee responsible for the application
process.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 3-16-2016)
§ 96.09 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT.
   A special event permit will be issued only if the Mayor, or designee, finds
that the following standards for issuance of a special event permit are met:
   (A)   The special event will not unnecessarily interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of traffic near its location or route;
   (B)   The special event will not require the diversion of such a number of
police officers to properly police the special event locale or line of movement
and the adjacent areas as to prevent adequate police protection for the city;
   (C)   The concentration of people, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection or ambulance
service to areas near such assembly points or the city;
   (D)   A parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point of
termination without unreasonable delays in route; and
   (E)   Other licenses and permits, restrictions, regulations, fees for the
city services, safeguards or other conditions deemed necessary by individual
city departments for the safe and orderly conduct of a special event are
requested, submitted, and approved.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 3-16-2016)
§ 96.10 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF A PERMIT.
   (A)   The Mayor or designee shall deny issuance of a special event permit
if:
      (1)   The special event will conflict in time or location with another
special event or event;
      (2)   The applicant fails to comply with, or the special event will
violate, the special event rules and regulations, any city ordinance or any
other applicable law;
      (3)   The applicant makes or allows the making of a false or misleading
statement or omission of material fact on a special event application;
      (4)   The applicant has violated this chapter or has had a special event
permit revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (5)   The applicant fails to provide proof of a license or permit
required by any city ordinance or by other applicable law for the special
event;
      (6)   The applicant fails to provide proof that the insurance
requirements for the special event have been met; and
      (7)   The special event would severely hinder the delivery of normal or
emergency public services or constitutes a public threat.
   (B)   If the Mayor or designee determines that the special event permit
shall be denied, the Mayor or designee shall consider alternatives to the time,
place or manner of the special event that would allow the special event to
occur.
   (C)   A special event permit shall be revoked upon the following conditions:
      (1)   If the Police Chief or other city official, or their designated
representatives, find that any of the provisions of this chapter, another city
ordinance, special event rule or regulation, or other applicable law is being
violated, they shall immediately notify the Mayor or designee and based on that
information, the Mayor or designee shall determine whether the special event
permit shall be revoked;
      (2)   When, in the judgment of any of the above named city officials, a
violation exists which requires immediate abatement, the city official shall
have authority to revoke a special event permit in the absence or
unavailability of the Mayor or designee; and
      (3)   The applicant made or allowed to be made a false or misleading
statement or omission of material fact on a Special Event Application that was
not discovered until after the special event permit was issued.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 3-16-2016)
§ 96.11 APPEAL.
   If the Mayor or designee denies the issuance of a special event permit, or
if the city revokes an issued special event permit, the applicant shall be
notified, within three business days, in writing. Such written notice shall
include the reasons for the decision to deny or revoke the special event
permit. The applicant or permittee may appeal the denial or revocation to the
City Council who shall make a ruling on the appeal at the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 3-16-2016)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GARAGE SALES
      
111.   DOOR-TO-DOOR SALESPERSONS
CHAPTER 110: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Sale prohibited; violation of requirements
   
110.03   Permit required
   
110.04   Locations, times and limitations
   
110.05   Posting permit
   
110.06   Responsible person
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE.
      (1)   An occasional sale of personal and/or household property at a non-
business location for a temporary period of time not exceeding three
consecutive days between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
      (2)   The term shall also include YARD SALES, PATIO SALES, MOVING SALES,
ESTATE SALES and other terms that refer to an occasional sale of personal or
household property in a residential area.
      (3)   No live auctions or liquidation sales of any kind will be permitted
to be held in the city.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-25-2008; Ord. 2014-9, passed 10-21-2014)
§ 110.02 SALE PROHIBITED; VIOLATION OF REQUIREMENTS.
   No garage sale shall be held within the city, except as specifically
provided by this chapter. Any person holding a garage sale in violation of the
requirements set forth herein shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-25-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to conducting a garage sale, the person conducting the sale shall
obtain a garage sale permit at City Hall at a cost of $10. The person obtaining
the permit must show evidence of the right to occupy the premises for which the
permit is sought. Further, the goods to be sold shall belong to the property
owner and/or resident of said property, unless several property owners and/or
residents hold the garage sale jointly. No outside goods from other sources
shall be brought in for sale.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-25-2008; Ord. 2014-9, passed 10-21-2014) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 LOCATIONS, TIMES AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No more than two garage sales may be held at the same location within
any 12-month period.
   (B)   No garage sale shall be held for more than three consecutive days. All
garage sales shall be held only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-25-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 POSTING PERMIT.
   The permit issued by the city shall be and remain posted on the property
identified therein in a manner readily visible to and accessible to the persons
attending the garage sale for the duration of the sale.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-25-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 RESPONSIBLE PERSON.
   The person named in the permit shall be responsible to ensure that no signs
relating to the garage sale shall be posted on any public property in violation
of any applicable ordinance, rule, regulation or law of the city or the state.
The person named in the permit shall be responsible to ensure that all signs
relating to the garage sale shall be removed within 72 hours of the expiration
of the permit.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-25-2008)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $10, nor more than $200.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-25-2008)
CHAPTER 111: DOOR-TO-DOOR SALESPERSONS
Section
   
111.01   Registration
   
111.02   Permit issuance
   
111.03   Return of bond
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 REGISTRATION.
   Door-to-door sales and solicitations of literature and/or consumer goods or
services at or near the residences or homes (within 100 feet) within the city
is expressly prohibited, unless, at least 24 hours beforehand, the individuals
or business entities proposing to engage in door-to-door sales or solicitations
shall have registered with the city the prescribed form and posted a $250 cash
property security and indemnity bond.
(2004 Code, § 5-101) (Ord. 82-6, passed 6-23-1982) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon satisfaction of the registration in §
111.01 of this chapter, the city shall issue a permit valid for a 48-hour
period.
   (B)   This permit may be renewable by the city upon written application by
the registrant.
(2004 Code, § 5-102) (Ord. 82-6, passed 6-23-1982)
§ 111.03 RETURN OF BOND.
   The cash bond shall be returned to such individuals or entities upon
satisfactory compliance with the ordinance of the city and upon the
satisfaction that property or persons within the city have not incurred injury,
damage or harm.
(2004 Code, § 5-103) (Ord. 82-6, passed 6-23-1982)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter within the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $1,
nor more than $200, and each single violation or failure to comply with the
chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(2004 Code, § 5-104) (Ord. 82-6, passed 6-23-1982)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   JUVENILE CURFEW
      
131.   FIREARMS
      
132.   NOISE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: JUVENILE CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Definition
   
130.02   Children in public streets, alleys and other places prohibited
   
130.03   Permitting children to violate curfew
   
130.04   Detention of violators
   
130.05   Delinquent juveniles
   
130.06   Defenses to prosecution
   
130.07   Compliance with state law
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUVENILE. A person less than 17 years of age.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-26-2009)
§ 130.02 CHILDREN IN PUBLIC STREETS, ALLEYS AND OTHER PLACES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a juvenile to be or remain upon any street, alley
or other public place in the city during the curfew hours of 10:00 p.m. to 6:00
a.m. on Sunday through Thursday and 12:00 p.m. (midnight) to 6:00 a.m. on
Friday and Saturday.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-26-2009) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 PERMITTING CHILDREN TO VIOLATE CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for a parent, or anyone having legal care and custody
of a juvenile, to permit the juvenile to violate §
130.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-26-2009) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DETENTION OF VIOLATORS.
   An officer of the city’s Police Department witnessing a juvenile violating
the provisions of §
130.02 of this chapter shall detain such juvenile until the parent or guardian
of such juvenile shall take him or her into custody. The city’s Police
Department, if possible, shall immediately notify the parent or guardian of a
juvenile taken into custody.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-26-2009)
§ 130.05 DELINQUENT JUVENILES.
   If it shall appear to an officer detaining a juvenile under this chapter
that such juvenile is, due to lack of proper parental care, growing up in
vagrancy or is incorrigible, or has no home, such juvenile shall be placed in
the care of the County Child Welfare Board.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-26-2009)
§ 130.06 DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION.
   It shall be a defense to prosecution for a violation of this chapter that
the juvenile was:
   (A)   Accompanied by a parent or guardian, or other person having custody of
such juvenile;
   (B)   Performing or returning home from a duty directed by a parent,
guarding or other person having custody of such juvenile, and traveling by a
direct route;
   (C)   Performing or returning home from a duty directed by the juvenile’s
employer, and traveling by a direct route;
   (D)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (E)   On a sidewalk abutting the juvenile’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor and the neighbor does not complain to the
police about the juvenile’s presence;
   (F)   Attending or returning from an official school or religious activity,
and traveling by a direct route;
   (G)   Exercising rights granted by the First Amendment to the United States
Constitution; and/or
   (H)   Married, had been married, or otherwise had the disabilities of
minority removed in accordance with Tex. Family Code Ch. 31.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-26-2009)
§ 130.07 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   In enforcing and applying this chapter, the police officer or officers
taking into custody a person younger than 17 years of age for a violation of
this chapter shall comply with the requirements of Tex. Code of Criminal
Procedure Art. 45.059.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-26-2009)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter is a Class C misdemeanor and shall be punishable
by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-26-2009)
CHAPTER 131: FIREARMS
Section
   
131.01   Discharging firearms prohibited
   
131.02   Exception
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DISCHARGING FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, air gun, BB gun, slingshot,
bow and arrow or crossbow, or any similar instrument projecting lead, metal,
rock, wood or any missile, in the city.
(2004 Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 81-7, passed 3-26-1981) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 EXCEPTION.
   The prohibition provided in §
131.01 of this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit any peace officer
from discharging a firearm in the performance of his or her duties.
(2004 Code, § 6-102) (Ord. 81-7, passed 3-26-1981)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate the provision of §
131.01 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than $1, nor more than $100, for each
such offense.
(2004 Code, § 6-103) (Ord. 81-7, passed 3-26-1981)
CHAPTER 132: NOISE REGULATIONS
Section
   
132.01   Prohibiting loud or raucous noise
   
132.02   Scope
   
132.03   Definitions
   
132.04   Factors for determining whether a sound is unreasonably loud or
raucous
   
132.05   Per se violations
   
132.06   Exemptions
   
132.07   Method of enforcement
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 PROHIBITING LOUD OR RAUCOUS NOISE.
   No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued:
   (A)   Any unreasonably loud or raucous noise;
   (B)   Any noise which unreasonably disturbs, injures or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensitivity, within the jurisdictional limits of the city; and/or
   (C)   Any noise which is so harsh, prolonged, unnatural or unusual in time
or place as to occasion unreasonable discomfort to any persons within the
neighborhood from which said noises emanate, or as to unreasonably interfere
with the peace and comfort of neighbors or their guests, or operators or
customers in places of business, or as to detrimentally or adversely affect
such residences or places of business.
(2004 Code, § 6-701) (Ord. 2003-8, passed 8-18-2003) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 SCOPE.
   Section 132.01 of this chapter applies to the control of all sound
originating within the jurisdictional limits of the city.
(2004 Code, § 6-702) (Ord. 2003-8, passed 8-18-2003)
§ 132.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NOISE SENSITIVE AREA. Includes, but is not limited to, a posted area where a
school, hospital, nursing home, church, court, public library or similar
institution is located.
   PUBLIC SPACE. Any real property or structures on real property, owned by a
government entity and normally accessible to the public.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any real property which contains a structure or building
in which one or more persons reside; provided that, the structure or building
is properly zoned, or is legally non-conforming, for residential use in
accordance with the terms and maps of the city’s Zoning Ordinance.
   SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT. Any machine or equipment or device for the
amplification of the human voice, music or any other sound. SOUND AMPLIFYING
EQUIPMENT shall not include warning devices on authorized emergency vehicles or
horns or other warning devices on vehicles used for traffic safety purposes.
(2004 Code, § 6-703) (Ord. 2003-8, passed 8-18-2003)
§ 132.04 FACTORS FOR DETERMINING WHETHER A SOUND IS UNREASONABLY LOUD OR
RAUCOUS.
   Factors for determining whether a sound is unreasonably loud and raucous
include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (A)   The proximity of the sound to sleeping facilities, whether residential
or commercial;
   (B)   The land use, nature and zoning of the area from which the sound
emanates and the area where it is received or perceived;
   (C)   The time of day or night the sound occurs;
   (D)   The duration of the sound; and
   (E)   Whether the sound is recurrent, intermittent or constant.
(2004 Code, § 6-704) (Ord. 2003-8, passed 8-18-2003)
§ 132.05 PER SE VIOLATIONS.
   The following acts, including, but not limited to these, are declared to be
per se violations of this chapter:
   (A)   Unreasonable noises. The unreasonable making of, or knowingly and
unreasonably permitting to be made, any unreasonably loud, boisterous or
unreasonably loud and raucous noise, disturbance, commotion or vibration in any
boarding facility, dwelling, place of business or other structure, or upon any
public street, park or other place or building. The ordinary and usual sounds,
noises, commotion or vibration incidental to the operation of these places when
conducted in accordance with the usual standards of practice and in a manner
which will not unreasonably disturb the peace and comfort of adjacent
residences or which will not detrimentally affect the operators of adjacent
places of business are exempted from the foregoing provisions;
   (B)   Commercial establishments adjacent to residential property.
Unreasonably loud and raucous noise from the premises of any commercial
establishment, including any outdoor area which is part of, or under the
control of the establishment, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.,
which is plainly audible at a distance of five feet from any residential
property;
   (C)   Sound production devices. The use or operation of a radio, television,
boom box, stereo, musical instrument or similar device that produces or
reproduces sound in a manner that is plainly audible to any person other than
the player or operator of the device, and those who are voluntarily listening
to the sound, and which unreasonably disturbs the peace, quiet and comfort of
neighbors, or is plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from any person in a
commercial, industrial area or public space, or which unreasonably disturbs the
peace, quiet and comfort of neighbors in residential or noise sensitive areas,
including multi-family or single-family dwellings;
   (D)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers, public address systems and similar devices.
The unreasonably loud and raucous use or operation of a loudspeaker, amplifier,
public address system or other device for producing or reproducing sound
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays, and 10:00 p.m. and
10:00 a.m. on weekends and holidays in the following areas:
      (1)   Within or adjacent to residential or noise-sensitive areas; and
      (2)   Within public space if the sound is plainly audible across the
property line of the public space from which the sound emanates, and is
unreasonably loud and raucous. (This shall not apply to any public performance,
gathering or parade for which a permit or permission has been obtained from the
city.)
   (E)   Construction or repair of buildings, excavation of streets and
highways. The construction, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or
the excavation of streets and highways other than between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m. weekdays and 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. weekends. (In case of
emergency construction or repair, noises are exempt from the provisions hereof.
In cases of non-emergency construction or repair, the Mayor may issue
permission to continue construction if he or she determines that loss or
inconvenience would result to a party in interest.); and/or
   (F)   Noise sensitive areas; schools, courts, churches, hospitals and
similar institutions. The creation of any unreasonably loud and raucous noise
adjacent to any noise sensitive area while it is in use, which unreasonably
interferes with the workings of the institution or which disturbs the persons
in these institutions; provided that, conspicuous signs delineating the
boundaries of the noise sensitive area are displayed on the property boundaries
toward the streets surrounding the noise sensitive areas.
(2004 Code, § 6-705) (Ord. 2003-8, passed 8-18-2003) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   Sounds caused by the following are exempt from the prohibitions set out
above:
   (A)   Any bell or chime from any clock, school or church;
   (B)   Any siren, whistle, horn or bell used by emergency vehicles or any
other alarm systems used in case of fire, collision, civil defense, burglary,
police activity or imminent danger; provided, however, that, no false alarms
shall remain activated for more than 15 minutes after being activated; and,
further provided that, no burglar alarm shall be allowed to produce alarm
sounds in excess of those specified above for more than 15 minutes in any two-
hour period. (Alarms as a result of an actual fire, burglary and the like will
be exempt from this time limit.);
   (C)   Trains blowing the whistle for intersection safety precaution;
   (D)   Any activity of a temporary duration which is permitted by law and for
which a license, permit or permission has been granted by the city, including,
but not limited to, parades, sporting events, concerts and fireworks displays;
   (E)   Any construction equipment operated upon a residential premise during
the time period between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. weekdays and 10:00 a.m. and 8:
00 p.m. weekends. Such construction equipment shall be equipped with properly
installed muffler in good working order;
   (F)   Any domestic power equipment operated upon any residential,
commercial, industrial or public premises during the time period between 7:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m. weekdays and 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. weekends;
   (G)   Any emergency work. EMERGENCY WORK shall be defined as work that must
be completed immediately in order to protect an individual or groups health,
safety or welfare or is otherwise necessary to restore property to safe
condition following a fire, accident or other natural or human-made disaster or
which is required to protect a persons property;
   (H)   Any detonation of explosives used to fragment rock for mining,
quarrying, excavation and construction;
   (I)   Any recreational and educational activity including, but not limited
to, school bands and school/neighborhood ball games. Reasonable activities
conducted on public playgrounds and public or private school grounds, which are
conducted in accordance with the manner in which such spaces are generally
used, including, but not limited to, school athletic and school entertainment
events;
   (J)   Licensed refuse collection vehicles;
   (K)   Aircraft; and/or
   (L)   Repairs or excavations of bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf
of the city, the state or the federal government, between the hours of 8:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., when public welfare and convenience renders it impractical
to perform the work between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
(2004 Code, § 6-706) (Ord. 2003-8, passed 8-18-2003)
§ 132.07 METHOD OF ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any peace officer or official responsible for code enforcement may be
responsible for enforcing all the provision of this chapter. In addition, a
complainant may individually enforce these provisions on his or her own behalf.
   (B)   Where a violation of any provision of the foregoing sections is found,
the peace officer, Code Enforcement Officer or any person acting under his or
her supervision, or individual acting on his or her own behalf are authorized
to:
      (1)   Appear before a Municipal Court Magistrate to make an affidavit
under oath and request that a summons be issued for a person or persons, where
there is probable cause for believing that the person or persons are in
violation of the foregoing provisions, requiring said person or persons to
appear in Municipal Court to answer charges of the violation;
      (2)   To serve as a witness, and to provide evidence of the violation, at
the request of a person or persons who have registered a noise complaint and
wish to appear before a Municipal Court Magistrate for the purpose of making an
affidavit under oath and requesting that a summons be issued for the person or
persons where there is probable cause to believe that the person or persons are
in violation of the foregoing provisions, requesting said person or persons to
appear in Municipal Court of the city to answer charges of the violation; and
      (3)   A peace officer, Code Enforcement Official or other individual may
proceed with enforcement under any method available to him or her pursuant to
the laws of the state, including issuance of summons.
   (C)   Nothing in divisions (A) and (B) above shall prevent the enforcement
official from obtaining voluntary compliance by way of warning, notice or
education.
   (D)   If a person’s conduct would otherwise violate the foregoing provisions
and consists of speech or communications; of a gathering with others to hear or
observe speech or communication; or of a gathering with others to picket or
otherwise express in a non-violent manner a position on social, economic,
political or religious questions; the person must be ordered to, and have
opportunity to move, disperse or otherwise remedy the violation prior to arrest
or a citation being issued.
(2004 Code, § 6-707) (Ord. 2003-8, passed 8-18-2003)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Each person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor which is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 and each
occurrence of a violation or, in the case of continuous violations, each day a
violation occurs or continues, constitutes a separate offense and may be
punished separately.
(2004 Code, § 6-708) (Ord. 2003-8, passed 8-18-2003)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SUBSTANDARD PROPERTY
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   STORM DRAINAGE; ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
      
154.   STORM WATER; WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
      
155.   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
      
156.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
157.   ZONING
      
158.   SIGNS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
General Provisions
   
150.001   Definitions
   
150.002   Adoption of Building Codes
City Building Inspector
   
150.015   Office created
   
150.016   Qualifications
   
150.017   Duties
   
150.018   Stop work orders
   
150.019   Appeal
   
150.020   Compensation
Building Permits
   
150.035   Permit required
   
150.036   Contractor registration; fee
   
150.037   Application for permit
   
150.038   Review of application, examination of plans and action by Building
Inspector
Fees
   
150.050   General
   
150.051   Refunds
Enforcement
   
150.065   Enforcement by Building Inspector
   
150.066   Right to enter premises
   
150.067   Notice in writing
   
150.068   Civil action
Compliance
   
150.080   Failure to comply
   
150.081   Posting permit on site
   
150.082   Variances
   
150.083   Additional fee for permit issued after commencement of construction
Land Usage
   
150.095   Use of land
   
150.096   No drilling and mining operations
   
150.097   Family dwellings
   
150.098   Home occupations
   
150.099   Fences
   
150.100   Accessory buildings
   
150.101   Non-use for dumping
Rules and Regulations
   
150.115   Construction plans
   
150.116   Improvements requiring Building Inspector's approval
   
150.117   Plan presentation
   
150.118   Plot plan
   
150.119   Foundation plan
   
150.120   Floor plan
   
150.121   Elevation plans
   
150.122   Drainage plans
   
150.123   Landscape sprinkler systems plan
   
150.124   Building must conform to zone requirements
   
150.125   No subdividing of lots
   
150.126   No noxious or offensive activities permitted
   
150.127   Electric service request
   
150.128   Permanent electric service
   
150.129   Utility connections
   
150.130   Hazardous systems
   
150.131   Portable toilets
   
150.132   Refuse containers
   
150.133   Paved off-street parking
   
150.134   Roofs
Structure Inspections
   
150.145   Timely response for inspections
   
150.146   Required inspections
   
150.147   New homes, patio homes, townhouses, condos, commercial construction,
home additions and renovations
   
150.148   Sprinkler systems
   
150.149   Appeal to City Council
   
150.150   Special use permit
 
   
150.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: City of Palm Valley Schedule of Building Permit Fees
   
Appendix B: Uses Allowed in the Single Family Dwelling District
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. Buildings that will be used for storage, pool houses,
greenhouses, playhouses, tree houses and similar type buildings.
   APPLICATION. The written application for a building permit filed with the
City Secretary or designees.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The individual or his designee duly appointed and
authorized by the city to inspect and approve all structures constructed within
the city.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. Refers to written authorization by the Building
Inspector to permit the owner of a residence to occupy the building upon its
completion in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   CITY. The City of Palm Valley, Texas.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City of Palm Valley, Texas.
   CITY LIMITS. The legal boundary limits of the City of Palm Valley, Texas.
   CONDOMINIUMS. A building in which owners of the units own what is inside the
walls of their unit but all common areas are owned jointly.
   CONSTRUCTION. The process of creating or building a new structure, or
repairing or improving an existing structure.
   DWELLING. Any building used for residential purposes, including house,
townhouse, condominium and apartment.
   FAIRWAY. A strip of land known as the golf fairway of the Harlingen Country
Club adjacent to recorded lots in the City of Palm Valley.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier enclosing, separating, or
screening area of land, serving as a boundary, a means of protection, a buffer
or a decorative element.
   IMPROVEMENT. A valuable addition made to a lot or structure within the city.
   NUISANCE. Any act, occupation or structure that unreasonably annoys and
disturbs another in the lawful possession and use of his or her property or
endangers life or health.
   OPACITY. The degree of openness which light or views are blocked measured
perpendicular to the fence for each fence section between supports.
   OPEN STORAGE. Storage of items outside of a structure.
   PATIO HOMES. A single family dwelling that is constructed on or near the lot
lines.
   PERMITTEE. The person or entity that has been issued a building permit by
the city.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A motor home, motorized dwelling, boat, jet ski, boat
trailer, travel trailer, utility trailer, livestock trailer, pop-up tent
trailer, self-contained pickup camper, and the like.
   SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING. A living unit of multiple rooms for the use of one
or more persons as a single housekeeping unit with space for eating, living and
sleeping, with a single space with provisions for cooking, a single utility
connection for water, wastewater, gas and electricity, and within which there
are no solid partitions without access door (or doors) into the adjoining area.
   STRUCTURE. Any construction or any piece of work artificially built up or
composed of parts joined together, including buildings, fence, slabs, swimming/
wading pools, portable buildings, greenhouses, building alterations, building
additions, garages and carports.
   TOWNHOUSES. A single family dwelling of one to three stories that is
connected to a similar house by a common sidewall.
   ZONE. A division within the city into districts to which certain structural
regulations are imposed in accordance with a comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.002 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODES.
   The city adopted and enforced the most current editions of the International
Building Code, International Residential Code, International Fire Code,
International Performance Code for Buildings and Facilities, International
Existing Building Code, International Plumbing Code, International Mechanical
Code, International Property Maintenance Code, International Fuel Gas Code,
International Energy Conservation Code and National Fire Protection Association
70 (National Electrical Code).
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.015 OFFICE CREATED.
   There is hereby created a position of City Building Inspector which shall be
appointed by the Mayor with concurrence of the City Council. A designee
approved by the City Council may serve in the absence of the Building
Inspector.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.016 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The City Building Inspector and his or her approved designees may be
nonresidents of the City of Palm Valley so long as they are otherwise qualified
to conduct building inspections for the city.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.017 DUTIES.
   The Building Inspector shall be responsible for the inspection of all
structures which require the issuance of a permit to insure they are
constructed in accordance with building standards and to enforce the terms of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.018 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, by reason of defective
or illegal work in violation of a provision of this code and ordinances of the
city and laws of the state, the continuance of a building operation is contrary
to public welfare, the Building Inspector may order all further work stopped
and may require suspension of work until the condition in violation of a
provision of this code and ordinances of the city and laws of the state has
been remedied.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.019 APPEAL.
   Work suspensions order by the Building Inspector may be appealed to the City
Council by the property owner, and the decision of the City Council shall be
final; provided, however, that nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to
abrogate the provisions of §
150.097 that provide for a request for a variance from the City Council.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.020 COMPENSATION.
   The Building Inspector shall be paid a set amount per year plus an amount of
half of the cost of the building permit to review sets of plans and a specified
amount for each inspection as set by the City Council. A re-inspection will be
a separate charge.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.035 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   There shall be no construction or erection of any type of structure or
manufacture of any kind, temporary or permanent, without obtaining a building
permit from the city. Every person or entity shall make application for a
building permit prior to the commencement of any type or kind of construction
of any nature within the city and shall pay, therefore, the fees established. A
permit shall be obtained if any existing structure is remodeled or rebuilt
which involves any structural changes or additions to said structure. A
building permit for remodeling shall be valid for a period of six months from
the date it is issued and construction must be completed within that time
period. A building permit for new construction shall be valid for a period of
nine months from the date it is issued and construction must be completed
within that time period. The holder of a building permit may apply to the
Building Inspector for an extension of the time to complete construction. Each
extension shall be for a period of no more than three months. If the Building
Inspector finds good cause for the extension and the extension is granted, the
holder of the permit shall pay the appropriate fee for the extension.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.036 CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION; FEE.
   (A)   Before any building and/or construction contractor or subcontractor
may commence any work within the city for which a building permit is required,
he or she must first register with the City Secretary and pay the registration
fee.
   (B)   The registration fee is $100 and is good for one year from the date of
registration.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.037 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   An application for a building permit under this subchapter shall be filed
with the city along with two copies of all plans. The application for a
building permit shall be in such form and manner as may be required by the City
Council. If, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the valuation of the
building, alteration or structure appears to be underestimated on the
application, the permit shall be denied unless the applicant can show detailed
estimated cost to meet the approval of the Building Inspector. Permit valuation
shall include total cost, such as plumbing, electrical, mechanical equipment
and other systems. All applications for remodeling an existing structure or
rebuilt which involves any of the plumbing, electrical, structural or an
addition to said structure should be referred to the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.038 REVIEW OF APPLICATION, EXAMINATION OF PLANS AND ACTION BY BUILDING
INSPECTOR.
   Plans along with a permit application are to be submitted to the Building
Inspector for approval or disapproval. The Building Inspector shall review the
proposed package and give its approval/disapproval within 30 days after the
date the applicant has submitted its application. After approval or
disapproval, the Building Inspector shall return one set of the plans to the
contractor with any needed corrections. The Building Inspector shall enforce
all easements, property lines, applicable setback requirements, applicable
state and federal building codes, zoning, building and land use ordinances of
the city. The Building Inspector will review and consider requests for approval
on the installation of structures in the city right-of-way, and within the city
established side, front and back setback requirements.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
FEES
§ 150.050 GENERAL.
   (A)   No building permit will be issued until all fees are paid in full.
After all the above requirements in §§
150.036 through
150.038 are completed and the Building Inspector has approved all documents,
the administrative staff will be advised to collect the required fees and issue
a building permit.
   (B)   All residential and commercial fees are incorporated into the fee and
permit schedule attached to this chapter as
 Appendix "A".
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.051 REFUNDS.
   No portion of the permit fee will be refunded after the construction permit
is issued.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.065 ENFORCEMENT BY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the City Building
Inspector or his designee. Certain inspections will be made during the progress
of the construction. It shall be the duty of the owner/building/contractor to
call for the various inspections as the construction progresses and no
additional work is to be done in the inspected area until each of these
inspections has been made and approved at its proper time. The Building
Inspector may make other unannounced inspections as the project progresses.
These inspections will not interfere with the progress of the project.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.066 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The Building Inspector, or his duly authorized designee, shall have the
right to enter any premises at any reasonable time to inspect sites or
buildings, so as to insure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.067 NOTICE IN WRITING.
   The Building Inspector or his designee may, by written notice to the owner/
builder/contractor, stop any work or construction which is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter. Such construction shall not proceed until it is
authorized by the Building Inspector or his designee.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.068 CIVIL ACTION.
   The City Council may bring a civil action for the enforcement of this
chapter as authorized by the Texas Local Government Code.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
COMPLIANCE
§ 150.080 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter will be considered an
offense subject to the penalty provisions in §
150.999. No building permit for any future construction within the city will be
issued to such violator until all permit fees and all penalties assessed have
been paid in full.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.081 POSTING PERMIT ON SITE.
   A copy of the building permit shall be posted at a visible position on the
construction site by permittee/contractor/building owner.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.082 VARIANCES.
   The Building Inspector shall grant no variance from the applicable building
codes, state or federal mandated codes. Any matters not addressed by the
various building codes may be referred to the City Council by the citizen to
seek a variance.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.083 ADDITIONAL FEE FOR PERMIT ISSUED AFTER COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION.
   When work for which a permit is required by §§
150.035 et seq. is started prior to obtaining a permit, the fees herein
specified shall be doubled. However, the payment of such double fee shall not
relieve any persons or entities from fully complying with the requirements of
this code and this chapter in the execution of the work.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
LAND USAGE
§ 150.095 USE OF LAND.
   No unfinished structure or recreational vehicle may be used as a residence.
All factory manufactured homes and mobile homes are prohibited within the city.
No land shall be used except for a purpose permitted in the designated zone in
which it is located. Open storage on any land, vacant or improved, within the
city of any trash, debris, boxes, crates, containers (other than residential
type garbage cans), empty or otherwise, inoperable vehicles or unused vehicular
equipment, structures, construction materials, devices, or contrivances of any
nature or kind whatsoever which is not necessary to or customarily found in a
restricted neighborhood or single family residential units shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.096 NO DRILLING AND MINING OPERATIONS.
   Drilling, quarrying, mining and prospecting are prohibited. No drilling,
refining, quarrying, mining or prospecting for oil, gas, or other minerals of
any kind shall be permitted within the city.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.097 FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   There shall be only one single family dwelling per lot within the applicable
zone. It shall be unlawful, after the original construction of a single-family
dwelling to make any alterations and/or additions thereto which would convert
its use to other than its original purpose.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.098 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   A home occupation is a commercial use that is accessory to a residential
use. A home occupation must comply with the requirements of this section.
   (A)   A home occupation must be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit
or one accessory garage.
   (B)   Participation in a home occupation is limited to occupants of the
dwelling unit, except that one person who is not an occupant may participate in
a medical, professional, administrative, or business office if off-street
parking is provided for that person.
   (C)   The residential character of the lot and dwelling must be maintained.
A home occupation that requires a structural alteration of the dwelling to
comply with a non-residential construction code is prohibited. This prohibition
does not apply to modifications to comply with accessibility requirements.
   (D)   A home occupation may not generate more than three vehicle trips each
day of customer-related vehicular traffic.
   (E)   The sale of merchandise directly to a customer on the premises is
prohibited.
   (F)   Equipment or materials associated with the home occupation must not be
visible from locations off the premises.
   (G)   A home occupation may not produce noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor,
heat, glare, fumes, electrical interference, or waste run off outside the
dwelling unit or garage.
   (H)   Parking a commercial vehicle on the premises or on a street adjacent
to residentially zoned property is prohibited.
   (I)   Advertising a home occupation by a sign on the premises is prohibited.
Advertising the street address of a home occupation through signs, billboards,
television, radio, or newspapers is prohibited.
   (J)   The following are prohibited as home occupations:
      (1)   animal hospitals, animal breeding
      (2)   clinics, hospitals
      (3)   hospital services
      (4)   contractors' yards
      (5)   dance studios
      (6)   scrap and salvage services
      (7)   massage parlors other than those employing massage therapists
licensed by the state
      (8)   restaurants
      (9)   cocktail lounges
      (10)   rental outlets
      (11)   equipment sales
      (12)   adult oriented businesses
      (13)   recycling centers
      (14)   drop-off recycling collection facilities
      (15)   automotive repair services
      (16)   businesses involving the repair of any type of internal combustion
engine, including equipment repair services
      (17)   bed and breakfast facilities; hotels/motels; nursing home
facilities; adult day care centers; multi-family rentals.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.099 FENCES.
   (A)   Regulations governing the height and locations of fences apply to
hedges or landscaping used in lieu of a fence or in combination with a fence. A
fence is any part of a fence including the base, footings and supporting
columns, posts, braces, structural members, or any other appendages.
   (B)   The total fence height including posts or any other attachments may
not exceed six feet measured to the ground on both sides along the length of
said fence except as provided elsewhere. Decorative gate embellishments are
allowed. They shall not exceed the height of the fence by more than two feet.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the total fence height including posts or any
other attachments such as decorative embellishments for fences located, placed,
or constructed along the exterior boundary of the City of Palm Valley, save and
expect for the exterior boundaries located along Wilson Road and Stuart Place
Road, shall not exceed eight feet measured to the ground on both sides along
the length of said fence.
   (C)   The fence may contain a base wall which must be constructed of face
brick or of masonry material covered with stucco that is attached and is
compatible with the dwelling or building to which it is appurtenant in terms of
its design and material composition, and may not exceed two feet in height.
   (D)   No fence shall be constructed within any drainage easements unless an
engineer shall have first determined and advised the Building Inspector, in
writing, that he believes such fence shall, in all probability, not interfere
with or impair the natural flow of water across the drainage easement.
   (E)   Wooden fences must meet the following standards:
      (1)   All vertical posts must be 4x4 treated wood, cedar or (16) gauge
galvanized steel spaced at a maximum of eight feet on center set two feet deep
in a concrete footing.
      (2)   All pickets shall be a minimum of 1/2" in thickness.
      (3)   Wood material shall be an insect resistant wood such as cedar or
pressure treated yellow pine.
      (4)   The fence shall have its backside (the side with exposed post or
rails) oriented away from view from the streets in Palm Valley.
      (5)   All materials shall be securely fastened, vertical boards to
horizontal stringers, stringers to vertical post, or rail to ensure an ongoing
attractive appearance and safe condition, free from rot, rust, vandalism, and
other sources of decay.
      (6)   A gate is required. Every fence enclosure constructed shall have a
least one gate in its perimeter a minimum of three feet in width. Properties
that border Dilworth Road or the alleyway of Country Club Estates shall have a
gate on the rear fences.
      (7)   Decorative gates. Subject to the restriction that a fence may not
extend past the front of each side of the house, a decorative gate of no more
than eight feet in height in the front yard may be utilized as long as it
allows minimum 50% opacity.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained within the
ordinances of the town, fences erected in compliance with this section may be
built on the side or common property line with the following setback
requirements.
      (1)   Fences on golf course lots. On lots abutting the golf course, no
fence or wall, hedge may be built nearer the rear lot line abutting the golf
course than the building set back line therefrom. The set back line is
contained in the property's deed restrictions.
   (G)   A fence permit must be obtained from the Building Inspector prior to
installation. It shall be unlawful for any person to install or cause to be
installed, or to permit any person to install a fence, or to make any
alterations, additions or changes to a fence, without first having procured a
permit to do so from the Building Inspector. No fence or wall may be built on
any location prior to submitting a detailed drawing to the City Secretary for
written approval by the city's Building Inspector. An inspection of the
finished installation by the Building Inspector shall be required.
   (H)   No fence may extend past the front wall of each side of the house.
   (I)   Any fence that is constructed or erected to comply with the
requirements of the Standard Swimming Pool Code shall comply with both the
requirements of said code and this chapter.
   (J)   No person shall build and/or maintain any fence composed, in whole or
in part, of:
      (1)   Chain link fencing material
      (2)   Barbed wire or razor wire welded or woven wire such as chicken
wire, hog wire, stockade panels and similar agricultural wires.
      (3)   Electric fences.
      (4)   Galvanized sheet metal, corrugated metal, or corrugated fiberglass.
      (5)   Materials not approved for exterior exposure.
      (6)   Used materials.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-17-2019)
§ 150.100 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   An accessory building is a subordinate building, the use of which is
incidental to and used only in conjunction with the main building.
   (A)   Every accessory building and connecting covered walkway must be on a
concrete foundation and shall be compatible with the building to which it is
appurtenant in terms of its designs and material composition. Accessory
buildings, if required to be attached pursuant to
Appendix B, must be connected to the main building/home by no more than an 18
foot covered walkway. No more than one accessory building is allowed per
residential lot. All accessory buildings are considered a part of the main
building and all set back and building codes must be adhered to. No accessory
building may be constructed upon a lot until the construction of the main
building has actually commenced, and no accessory building may be used unless
the main building on a lot is completed and occupied. No accessory building may
be used as a rental. An accessory structure which is not intended for human
occupancy/not used as a human dwelling which is located on residential property
and of which the use is incidental or secondary to that of the dominant or
primary building may be unattached. Foundation, permit and location
requirements are available in the chart (
Appendix B). Storage units or containers of any kind to include those
prefabricated and made of metal, wood, plastic, vinyl etc. are prohibited from
being used as accessory structures in the town.
   (B)   Temporary buildings to be used for construction purposes only and
which shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of construction work.
   (C)   (1)   Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses, when
situated in the same dwelling and not involving the conduct of a business,
including home occupations when engaged in by the occupants of the dwelling and
used as their private dwelling and when said home occupation involves no
outside signs, little or no increase in traffic, and with only occasional
visits by members of the public to the home. Said incidental use, however,
shall never be permitted as a principal use, but only as a secondary use when
indispensably necessary to the enjoyment of the premises for any of the uses by
this section and actually made of the premises but not otherwise.
      (2)   Special exceptions may be granted by the City Council for a public
service facility.
      (3)   
Appendix B is a listing of uses that are allowed in the single family dwelling
district.
   (D)   Area regulations for accessory buildings in residential and multi-
family districts.
      (1)   Front yard. Any detached accessory building located on a combined
building site must be located in the rear yard or in a side yard, to the rear
of the line joining the midpoint of one side lot line with the midpoint of the
opposite side lot line.
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   There shall be a side yard for any detached accessory building
of not less than three feet from any side lot line, alley line or easement
line, except that adjacent to a side street the side yard requirement shall be
the same as that required for the main building. An attached or detached
accessory building on corner lot which opens directly to and is entered from
the side street shall provide a side yard of not less than 20 feet. Maximum
overhang of roof on an accessory building into the required side yard is 18
inches.
         (b)   Any detached accessory building to be located on a combined
building site shall have a side yard that is not less than ten feet from any
side lot line, alley, line or easement line. All other provisions shall apply
to any detached accessory building located on a combined building site.
      (3)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard for any accessory building of
not less than three feet from the rear property lot line, alley line, or
easement line, except that if no alley exists, the rear yard shall not be less
than eight feet as measured from the rear property lines. The main and all
accessory buildings shall not cover more than 60% of that portion of the lot
lying to the rear of a line erected, joining the midpoint of one side lot with
the midpoint of the opposite side lot line. Carports, garage or other detached
accessory buildings located within the rear portion of the lot as heretofore
described shall not be located closer than ten feet to the main building nor
nearer than three feet to any side lot line, except that a breezeway not
exceeding 15 feet in height and six feet in width, as measured to the outside
face of support posts and exclusive to a maximum eight (18") inch roof
overhang, shall be permitted connecting the dwelling to an accessory building,
provided it is open on all sides from the eaves of the roof to the ground.
Carports and garages which open directly and are entered from an alley shall
not be located nearer than ten feet to the rear lot. Maximum overhang for roofs
of accessory buildings into the required rear yard is 18 inches.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.101 NON-USE FOR DUMPING.
   No lot (developed or undeveloped) or city street shall be used or maintained
as a dumping ground for rubbish, trash, garbage or any other waste. During
structure construction, the owner/building/ contractor shall maintain an
adequate-sized container for disposal of all construction materials.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.115 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   All plans for construction, improvements and additions to be made on
any of the lots located within the City of Palm Valley must be approved by the
Building Inspector. No clearing of a building lot, removal of trees (except for
dead trees), lot leveling or building pad installation may occur without a
building permit or the written approval of the Building Inspector. The Building
Inspector's approval of plans is not a certification of the designs or
materials.
   (B)   All plans and construction must comply with the most recent
International Building Codes as adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.116 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRING BUILDING INSPECTOR'S APPROVAL.
   The following improvements must be approved by the Building Inspector.
   (A)   new houses
   (B)   townhouses
   (C)   condominiums
   (D)   haciendas
   (E)   all commercial construction
   (F)   house renovations/alterations involving plumbing or electrical
modifications.
   (G)   house additions
   (H)   swimming pools, hot tubs, spas, in ground wading pools
   (I)   patios
   (J)   sprinkler systems
   (K)   slabs
   (L)   solar panels (small solar energy systems)
      (1)   Accessory use: A small solar energy system is allowed as an
accessory use in all districts.
      (2)   General standards: Small solar energy systems must be designed and
located to avoid glare or reflection onto 1) neighboring properties, inclusive
of properties across an alley, easement, or street, and 2) adjacent roadways.
The devices shall not interfere with traffic or create a safety hazard, and
must meet the following applicable requirements:
         (a)   1.   Ground-mounted small solar energy systems are considered
structures and must meet applicable setbacks for the zoning district and shall
be located in the rear yard.
            2.   The solar panel collector and supporting framework of the
small solar energy system cannot exceed more than six feet above the existing
grade.
         (b)   Roof-mounted small solar energy systems located on pitched roofs
shall be mounted as flush as possible to the roof, but in any case, shall not
extend more than 12 inches above the point of attachment.
            1.   Roof-mounted small solar energy systems on flat roofs cannot
extend more than six feet above the roof surface.
            2.   Roof-mounted small solar energy systems must also be in
compliance with the maximum building height for the applicable zoning district.
   (M)   towers/antennas/ham radio satellites
      (1)   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (WCF).  A WCF is any unstaffed
facility for the transmission and/or reception of wireless telecommunications
services, usually consisting of an antenna array, connection cables, an
equipment facility, and a support structure to achieve the necessary elevation.
      (2)   ANTENNA ARRAY (ANTENNAS).  An antenna array is one or more rods,
panels, discs or similar devices used for the transmission or reception of
radio frequency signals, which may include omni-directional antenna (rod),
directional antenna (panel) and parabolic antenna (disc).
      (3)   WCFs and antennas are prohibited from use in any residential zoned
district.
      (4)   Exclusion for amateur radio facilities.  This chapter shall not
govern the installation of any amateur radio facility that is owned and
operated by a federally-licensed amateur radio station operator or is used
exclusively for receive only antennas, which are governed elsewhere in this
chapter.
      (5)   Amateur radio antennas (ARA). An ARA is a permitted land use and
shall be subject to the following standards:
         (a)   Applicability. This section applies to all new construction and
expansion of existing ARA's.
         (b)   Setbacks. All ARA must comply with the setback requirements for
the zoning district in which it is located, or be setback 100% of its height
from all property lines or rights-of-way.
         (c)   Height. In no case shall a proposed ARA exceed 45 feet in
height, as measured from the average grade of the lot or tract, within the
corporate limits, except where a height variance is authorized by the City of
Palm Valley Council to allow a tower or antenna that demonstrates a hardship.
         (d)   Aesthetic standards. All ARA shall be constructed with materials
and colors that match or blend in with the surrounding natural or built
environments, to the maximum extent practicable. Unless otherwise required,
muted (flat or non-reflective) colors, earth tones and subdued hues shall be
used. If an antenna is mounted on a support structure other than a tower, the
antennas and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a
neutral color that is identical to, or significantly compatible with, the color
of the supporting structure so as to make the antenna and equipment as visually
unobtrusive as possible.
         (e)   Maintenance. Maintenance of the ARA and its grounds is the
responsibility of the owner/operator of the ARA. The owner/operator shall
prevent the facility from entering a state of disrepair due to negligence,
vandalism, natural hazard or any other source of disrepair.
         (f)   Lighting. All ARA must be illuminated only as necessary to
comply with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or other applicable state
and federal requirements. However, security lighting may be used as long as it
is designed and installed to prevent glare or allow excess light spillover onto
adjacent properties.
         (g)   Signage. ARA may not be used to exhibit any permanent or
temporary signs, writing, symbols, or any graphic representation of any kind
other than safety related signs.
         (h)   Attachment. ARA may attach to the exterior of any building
provided the antenna and antenna support structure or equipment is mounted
flush with the vertical exterior of the building or projects no more than 24
inches from the surface of the building to which it is attached. The attached
ARA must be textured and colored so as to blend with the surface of the
building.
         (i)   Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Compliance. The owner/
operator must comply with all applicable FCC rules and regulations governing
ARA's and shall submit copies of his or her license to own/operate such device
at the time of application for a building permit to construct an ARA. The
owner/operator must maintain the required license(s) at all times that such ARA
structures are in place. Failure to do so shall make a presumption of
abandonment of the use and structure, requiring its removal as described in
paragraph (j), below.
         (j)   Abandonment.  If the use of an ARA is discontinued for a
continuous period of six months, the city may declare the facility to be
abandoned, which excludes any dormancy period between construction and the
initial use of the facility. The facility's owner/operator will receive written
notice from the city and will be instructed to either re-activate the ARA's use
within 90 days, or dismantle and remove the ARA. If re-activation or
dismantling does not occur within 90 days, the city may remove the facility or
cause it to be removed and assess the costs to the owner/operator.
   (N)   Wind energy devices and/or systems prohibited. Wind energy devices
shall be prohibited from all zoning districts of the City of Palm Valley.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015; Ord. 2020-3, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 150.117 PLAN PRESENTATION.
   Plans along with a permit application are to be submitted to the Building
Inspector for approval. The Building Inspector shall review the proposed
package and give its written approval/disapproval within 30 days.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.118 PLOT PLAN.
   This plan must show the location of the proposed structure with respect to
the lot lines and set back lines. Lot and first level elevations must be shown
on this plan. All elevations must be referenced to the centerline of the street
or streets adjacent to the lot shown on the plot plan. Plot plans must be
reviewed, sealed, signed and dated by a registered Texas land surveyor.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.119 FOUNDATION PLAN.
   This plan must include the location, with respect to the structure floor
plans, of all grade beams and piers (if required). Tops of foundations must be
designed so that the top of the first floor level of the structure will be a
minimum of eight inches above the adjacent finish ground level at a point
around the perimeter of the slab. This plan must also include the location and
specifications of all reinforcing steel and concrete. All foundation plans must
be reviewed, signed and sealed by a Texas registered professional engineer.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.120 FLOOR PLAN.
   This plan must include room dimensions, electrical fixture and wiring
schematic, air conditioning duct schematic, and gas pipe schematic and
plumbing.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.121 ELEVATION PLANS.
   These plans must show the appearance of the front, side and back of the
structure to be constructed. These plans must indicate the construction
material for the exterior wall of the structure and the exterior dimensions of
the structure.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.122 DRAINAGE PLANS.
   (A)   A drainage plan must be submitted to and approved, in writing, by the
Building Inspector prior to the construction of any residence or driveway. All
drainage plans must show the lot address, elevations of the lot corners and
house first level corners relative to the centerline of the street in the front
of the house. Lot drainage must also be indicated on this plan. All drainage
must be directed away from the slab at a slope of four inches in ten feet where
possible. All foundations must be a minimum of 12 inches above the 100-year
flood plain. All lot drainage shall not be harmful, destructive or a nuisance
to the adjacent lots. Driveways shall permit the free flow of water in road
ditches.
   (B)   Where possible all drainage shall flow to the street. In some cases
gutters may be required on structures, in which case the downspouts and
underground drain conduits must be installed so as to direct the flow of runoff
toward the streets. Requirements for gutters will be determined at the time of
plan approval. Any and all culverts or conduits installed in street ditches
shall be of a minimum diameter of 18 inches, must extend the entire width of
the driveway or be at least ten feet in length, and must be kept clean. All
culverts must end in a concrete headwall with driveway curbs and inlet/outlet
flow detectors.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.123 LANDSCAPE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS PLAN.
   New landscape sprinkler system plans must be signed, sealed and dated by a
registered Texas sprinkler system designer. All signatures and seals must be
originals.
   (A)   System must have a testable backflow preventer, and test results must
be provided to the city upon installation.
   (B)   System must have a shut-off valve to provide separation of house
service and sprinkler line.
   (C)   System must be inspected by a designated city inspector.
   (D)   Once the new landscape sprinkler system has been approved and placed
in operation, modifications or additions to the system may be made without a
permit, provided the back flow preventer meets the requirements of both the
city and state.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.124 BUILDING MUST CONFORM TO ZONE REQUIREMENTS.
   All buildings shall conform to the regulations of the zone in which they are
located. Any deviations from the Zone requirements must be reviewed by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.125 NO SUBDIVIDING OF LOTS.
   No lots may be subdivided in whole or in part without the written consent of
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.126 NO NOXIOUS OR OFFENSIVE ACTIVITIES PERMITTED.
   No noxious or offensive trade or activity that adversely affects the health
or safety of the public shall be carried on or upon any lot or tract in the
city, nor shall anything be done thereon which may be or become an unreasonable
annoyance or nuisance to the neighborhood.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.127 ELECTRIC SERVICE REQUEST.
   Temporary electric service. The contractor must erect a temporary pole and
appropriate meter box, circuit breaker panel and receptacles on the lot where
the structure is being erected if the contractor wants the local electric
utility company to provide electric service during construction. After the
temporary electric facilities have been erected and inspected by the Building
Inspector, the Building Inspector will advise the local electric utility
company that the temporary electric facility for the proposed construction site
is ready for service. It is the responsibility of the contractor to make
application for service with the local electrical utility. Temporary electric
service will be permitted at the construction site only during the initial six-
month construction period allowed by the original permit. Extensions can be
granted with Committee approval.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.128 PERMANENT ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   Upon completion of the structure and after all appliances are in place, the
contractor must contact the Building Inspector and request an inspection. It is
the responsibility of the owner/contractor to arrange the electric service
installation with the local electric utility.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.129 UTILITY CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to apply to a utility company, public or
private, which supplies any type of energy system, such as natural gas, LPG,
electric, or any other potentially dangerous substance, to connect the service
to any structure or other project within the City without first obtaining
written confirmation that the construction has been approved by the Building
Inspector. It is the responsibility of the owner/builder/contractor to arrange
the gas service installation with the local gas provider.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.130 HAZARDOUS SYSTEMS.
   From time to time, other requirements concerning the installation of
potentially hazardous systems may be added or amended as part of this chapter
and, after due notice, will become as effective and enforceable as any previous
requirements.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.131 PORTABLE TOILETS.
   All contractors shall be required to provide a portable toilet at each
building site, and said toilet must be located on the lot where construction is
occurring.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.132 REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   All construction refuse materials must be placed in a refuse container
during construction and removed from the lot before a Certificate of Occupancy
can be issued by the city.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.133 PAVED OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Each dwelling shall have a paved driveway and a garage. The design and
construction materials of garages must correspond to the design and
construction materials of the residence.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.134 ROOFS.
   All new extensions or replacements of roofs must be permitted. The builder/
owner/contractor must apply for a permit and provide a windstorm certification
certificate upon completion of the job. The certificate must be turned in to
the Administration office at City Hall.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
STRUCTURE INSPECTIONS
§ 150.145 TIMELY RESPONSE FOR INSPECTIONS.
   All permits require certain inspections. After an applicant/owner/building/
contractor requests an inspection, the City Building Inspector (or his or her
designee) will make the requested inspection within 48 hours. Should additional
inspections be required, the applicant/owner/builder/contractor will be
assessed a fee as set out in the fee and permit schedule found in
Appendix A of this chapter for each additional inspection until the original
requested inspection is satisfactory. Inspections on holidays are not included
unless there is an emergency need.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.146 REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
   All permits require certain inspections. Below are the required inspections.
After an owner/builder/ contractor requests an inspection, the City Building
Inspector or his or her designee will make the requested inspection within 48
hours. Should additional inspections be required, the owner/building/contractor
will be assessed a fee as set out in the Fee and Permit Schedule found in
Appendix "A" of this chapter, for each additional inspection until the original
requested inspection is satisfactory.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.147 NEW HOMES, PATIO HOMES, TOWNHOUSES, CONDOS, COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION,
HOME ADDITIONS AND RENOVATIONS.
   (A)   Foundation inspection. This inspection verifies the location of the
structure with respect to building lines.
   (B)   Slab inspection. This inspection must be completed prior to the
placement of concrete within the foundation forms. Verification of steel
placement, elevation, and slab thickness will occur at this inspection.
   (C)   Cover-up inspection. This inspection is completed when all electrical,
plumbing, and air conditioning rough-in is complete and prior to the placement
of insulation or dry wall.
   (D)   Utility inspection. This inspection must be done prior to the
connection of sewer and water connections.
   (E)   Driveway inspection. This inspection must be completed prior to
placement of concrete or macadam in the driveway. All drainage culverts and
steel reinforcement must be complete prior to this inspection.
   (F)   Final inspection. This inspection will be completed when the structure
is ready for occupancy. If the structure passes this inspection, a Certificate
of Occupancy will be issued.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.148 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   A final inspection is required to verify the installation of the back flow
protection device.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.149 APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL.
   Any person shall have the right to appeal directly to the City Council any
ruling of the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.150 SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The City Council, may, upon recommendation of the Building Inspector, grant
a building permit for a special use or special project in any district (or
zone), provided such use or project shall not adversely affect the overall
comprehensive plan of this chapter and shall not adversely affect the property
or property values in the district (or zone).
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter herein shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined an
amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each and every violation
of such provisions shall constitute a separate offense, and each day such
violation shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
APPENDIX A
CITY OF PALM VALLEY
SCHEDULE OF BUILDING PERMIT FEES
(EFFECTIVE MAY 7, 2015)
For the building only:
Figure the square footage first. Then take the square footage and figure the
dollar amount. Example: If the structure is 30' x 100', the total square
footage is 3,000 sq. ft. If the estimated construction cost is $50 per square
foot, then the total value of the building permit is $150,000.
Total Valuation Fee
Total Valuation                    Fee
                                   
                                   $60.00 for the first $1,000 plus $5.00 for
Up to $50,000                      each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                   up to and including $50,000.
                                   
                                   $305.00 for the first $50,000 plus $4.00 for
$50,000 to $100,000                each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                   up to and including $100,000.
                                   
                                   $505.00 for the first $100,000 plus $3.00
$100,000 to $500,000               for each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                   thereof, up to and including $500,000.
                                   
                                   $1,705.00 for the first $500,000 plus $2.00
$500,000 and up                    for each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                   thereof.
                                   
Inspection and re-inspection fees: $60.00 per inspection
 
CONTRACTOR'S REGISTRATION FEE:
$100.00 for one year.
MOVING FEE: (relocating a structure from one location to another)
$150.00
DEMOLITION FEE:
For the demolition of any building or structure, the fee shall be:
Up to 100,000 Cu. Ft. of material:    $75.00
100,000 Cu. Ft. and over:          $0.51 / 1,000 cubic ft.
PLAN CHECK FEES:
Plan check fees are 1/2 of the building permit fee and are in addition to the
building permit fee. Example: if the building permit fee totals $1,000, the
plan check fee is $500 for a total of $1,500.
GAS PERMIT FEE:
The gas permit fee is a $60;00 minimum fee or $2.00 per outlet (whichever is
greater).
ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE:
The electrical permit fee is a $60.00 minimum fee or $1.50 per circuit
(whichever is greater); $5.00 for the temporary pole and $5.00 for the meter.
PLUMBING PERMIT FEE:
The plumbing permit fee is a $60.00 minimum fee or $1.00 per fixture (whichever
is greater); $2.50 for the yard line; $2.50 for the water heater and an
additional permit fee of $10.00.
CURB BREAK FEE:
There is a charge of $60.00 per curb break.
MECHANICAL FEE:
There is a charge of $60.00.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
There is a charge of $25.00 for the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy.
DRIVEWAYS PERMIT:
There is a charge of $60.00.
FENCE PERMIT:
There is a charge of $60.00.
PENALTIES
When work for which a permit is required by this Building Ordinance is started
prior to obtaining a permit, the fees herein specified shall be DOUBLED.
However, the payment of such double fee shall not relieve any persons from
fully complying with requirements of this Code in the execution of the work.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
APPENDIX B
USES ALLOWED IN THE SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
BUILDING ATTACHED UNATTACHED FOUNDATION NO FOUNDATION COMPATIBLE PERMIT NEED
TYPE
BUILDING     ATTACHED UNATTACHED FOUNDATION NO         COMPATIBLE PERMIT NEED
TYPE                                        FOUNDATION
Art/Music    X                  X                    X          X
Exercise/    X                  X                    X          X
work out gym
Garage       X                  X                    X          X
Guest        X                  X                    X          X
quarters
Observation  X                  X                    X          X
tower
Servant's    X                  X                    X          X
quarters
Work/hobby   X                  X                    X          X
shop
Observatory/ X                  X                    X          X
solarium
Golf Cart            X          X                    X          X
storage
Tool Storage         X          X                    X          X
Potting/             X          X                    X          X
garden ing
Pool house   X                  X                    X          X
Greenhouse           X          X                    X          X
                                                             
Accessory                                                     
Structure
BBQ pit/
cooking              X          X                    X          X
pavilion
Gazebo               X          X                    X          X
Fish pond            X                                        X
Bird bath            X                    X                     
Fountain             X          X                              X
Permanent
tree house/          X                    X          X           
fort
Permanent
playhouse/           X          X                    X          X
doll house
Pre-fab play
house/ doll          X                    X          X           
house
Play eqpt/
jungle gym/          X                    X          X           
trampoline
Dog Run              X                              X          x
Dog/pet              X                    X          X           
house
Resaca pump          X                              X           
house/cover
Tennis court         X          X                    X          X
Shade
canopy/      X        X          X                              X
structure
Flag pole            X          X                    X           
Mail box             X          X                    X          X
(masonry)
 
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-7-2015)
CHAPTER 151: SUBSTANDARD PROPERTY
Section
   
151.01   Declaration of substandard property as public nuisance
   
151.02   Definition
   
151.03   Condemnation Officer
   
151.04   Posting placard
   
151.05   Placarded building to be secured
   
151.06   Emergency cases
   
151.07   Procedure for condemnation
   
151.08   Guide for repair, vacation or demolition
   
151.09   Posting of warnings of unsafe buildings
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DECLARATION OF SUBSTANDARD PROPERTY AS PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The city, by and through its City Council, declares that every substandard
building or structure as defined in §
151.02 of this chapter to be a public nuisance and subject to repair, vacation
or demolition to abate such nuisance as herein provided in order to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the occupants and the public.
(2004 Code, § 4-601) (Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 151.02 DEFINITION.
   Any building or structure, whether on public or private property, of any
type of material existing within the city which is determined to be
dilapidated, substandard or unfit for human habitation, pursuant to the
standards set forth in this chapter, shall be declared and be and become a
CONDEMNED BUILDING OR STRUCTURE:
   (A)   Any building or structure which, for want or repair or by reason of
age or dilapidated condition, or for any cause, is especially liable to fire,
and which is so situated as to endanger other buildings or property, or so
occupied that fire would endanger persons or property therein;
   (B)   Any building or other structure which shall be determined to have a
permanent or temporary plumbing condition in violation of the Building Codes,
Plumbing Code, Fire Code, Gas Code and/or Electrical Code and/or any other
codes or ordinances of the city dealing with buildings or other structures
presently duly enacted or to be duly enacted from time to time, and which shall
be further determined, by virtue of such condition in violation of said
provisions of said codes to endanger the safety of said building or structure
or other buildings or structures or other property; and/or to endanger the
safety and health of persons who may have occasion to occupy and/or be in, on
or about said premises, or adjoining property, whether they be the owner
thereof or not;
   (C)   Any building or structure which shall be determined to have a
permanent or temporary sanitary condition existing in violation of the various
health and sanitation ordinances duly enacted and to be enacted from time to
time, and which shall be further determined, by virtue of such condition in
violation of said provisions of said sanitation ordinances to endanger the
safety of said building or structure or other buildings or structures or other
property, and/or to endanger the safety and health of persons who may have
occasion to occupy and/or be in, on or about said premises, whether they be the
owner thereof or not;
   (D)   Any building or other structure, regardless of its structural
condition, unoccupied by its owners, lessees or other invitees and is unsecured
from unauthorized entry to the extent that it could be entered or used by
vagrants or other uninvited persons as a place of harborage or could be entered
or used by children; and/or
   (E)   A building or other structure that is boarded up, fenced or otherwise
secured in any manner if:
      (1)   The building constitutes a danger to the public even though secured
from entry; or
      (2)   The means used to secure the building are inadequate to prevent
unauthorized entry or use of the building in the manner described in division
(D) above.
(2004 Code, § 4-602) (Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 151.03 CONDEMNATION OFFICER.
   The Building Inspector of the city, as said office is created and duly
existing under the ordinances of the city, shall be the Condemnation Officer
for the city and shall carry out the provisions of this chapter as hereinafter
provided for.
(2004 Code, § 4-603) (Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 151.04 POSTING PLACARD.
   (A)   If the Condemnation Officer or a designated representative shall, upon
inspection of any building within the city, find the same to be uninhabitable
and dangerous, he or she shall place a placard on the uninhabitable and
dangerous building reading as follows:
 
WARNING
 
This building has been found to be an UNINHABITABLE AND DANGEROUS STRUCTURE by the Condemnation Officer or a
designated representative. This building is to be vacated immediately. This placard is to remain on the structure
until it is repaired or demolished in accordance with the notice dated                               , which has been
mailed to all known persons having an interest in this building or property as shown by the County Clerk. It is a
violation of City Ord. 2003-4, punishable by a fine up to $2,000 for anyone to remove this placard until such notice
has been complied with.
 
Signed                                                        
      Condemnation Officer of Designee
 
 
   (B)   No person shall occupy any building posted with such placard, nor
shall any person deface, destroy or remove any such placard.
   (C)   A copy of such notice shall be posted on the front door or as near to
the front door as practicable on the uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or
building to which it relates.
(2004 Code, § 4-604) (Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-17-2003) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 PLACARDED BUILDING TO BE SECURED.
   When the placard authorized by this chapter has been posted on any building
in the city found to be in violation of this chapter, the owner or occupant
thereof shall render it secure from entry by unauthorized persons.
(2004 Code, § 4-605) (Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 151.06 EMERGENCY CASES.
   In cases where it reasonably appears that there is immediate danger to the
life or safety of any person unless an uninhabitable and dangerous building is
immediately secured, the Condemnation Officer or a designated representative
shall cause the building to be immediately secured.
   (A)   The Condemnation Officer must determine:
      (1)   The building violates the minimum standards of this chapter; and
      (2)   The building is unoccupied or is occupied only by persons who do
not have a right of possession of the building.
   (B)   Before the eleventh day after the date the building is secured, the
city shall give notice to the owner by:
      (1)   Personally serving the owner with written notice;
      (2)   Depositing the notice in the United States mail addressed to the
owner at the owner’s post office address;
      (3)   Publishing the notice at least twice within a ten-day period in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the building is located
if personal service cannot be obtained and the owner’s post office address is
unknown; or
      (4)   Posting the notice on or near the front door of the building if
personal service cannot be obtained and the owner’s post office address is
unknown.
   (C)   The notice must contain:
      (1)   An identification, which is not required to be a legal description,
of the building and the property on which it is located;
      (2)   A description of the violation of the municipal standards that is
present at the building;
      (3)   A statement that the city will secure or has secured, as the case
may be, the building; and
      (4)   An explanation of the owner’s entitlement to request a hearing
about any matter relating to the city’s securing the building.
   (D)   The city shall conduct a hearing at which the owner may testify or
present witnesses or written information about any matter relating to the
city’s securing the building if, within 30 days after the date the city secures
the building, the owner files with the city a written request for the hearing.
The city shall conduct the hearing within 20 days after the date the request is
filed.
   (E)   Any expenses incurred by the city in securing the building may be
assessed against the property and the lien created under this section is
created in the same manner that a lien is created under §
151.07 of this chapter.
(2004 Code, § 4-606) (Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 151.07 PROCEDURE FOR CONDEMNATION.
   The following procedure shall be followed in applying the foregoing
conditions in determining if a building or other structure within the city is
to be condemned and in condemning said building or other structure.
   (A)   Right of inspection.
      (1)   The Condemnation Officer or his or her designated representative
shall cause to be inspected any building or structure for the purpose of
determining whether conditions exist which render such place uninhabitable or
substandard within the terms of this chapter. Cause for inspection may be based
on any of the following:
         (a)   A complaint filed by any person;
         (b)   A report filed by the City Building Inspector, the Police
Department or any other city department of any building or structure which is
or may be uninhabitable or substandard within the terms of this chapter; or
         (c)   General information or knowledge about the building or
structure.
      (2)   The Condemnation Officer shall have the right to enter upon and
inspect the premises of any building or other structure, permanent or
temporary, of any type of material, within the city, at any time (being
reasonable and commensurate with any dangerous conditions reasonably believed
to exist and with due consideration and regard for the safety, respect and
dignity of the owners or other occupants of said premises) for the purpose of
inspecting the same to determine if there is any imminently dangerous existing
condition as defined above.
   (B)   Notice of violation. Upon determination of a violation of this
chapter, the Condemnation Officer shall give notice of said violation as
follows.
      (1)   Service. The Condemnation Officer or his or her authorized designee
shall give notice of a violation of this chapter. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be served by personal delivery or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the record owners of the affected property, and to all
unknown owners, by posting a copy of the notice on the front door of each
affected improvement situated on the property or as close to the front door as
practicable; and, if the owner’s address is different than the address shown
for the property involved, to the address of the property, addressed to the
occupant of such address. It is not necessary that the notice to the occupant
of the property list any occupant by name or that the notice be mailed by
certified mail or by personal delivery to any occupant of the property who is
above the age of 18 years or older.
      (2)   Contents. The notice shall contain the following:
         (a)   The names of all persons to whom the notice is being served
pursuant to this chapter;
         (b)   The street address or legal description of the premises;
         (c)   A general description of the building, structure, improvements
or condition deemed substandard or otherwise in violation of this chapter;
         (d)   A description of the violation of municipal standards that are
present at the building or structure;
         (e)   Notice of the date, time and place of the public hearing to
determine whether the building complies with the standards set out in this
chapter;
         (f)   At statement that the owner, lienholder or mortgagee will be
required to submit at the public hearing proof of the scope of any work that
may be required to comply with this chapter and the time it will take to
reasonably perform the work; and
         (g)   Whether or not the building shall be vacated by the occupants
and, if so, the date by which such vacation shall be effected.
   (C)   Hearing. Upon the determination of the Condemnation Officer that a
violation of this chapter exists, the Condemnation Officer shall set a time,
date and place for a hearing before the City Council. The following procedures
shall control said hearing.
      (1)   A quorum of the City Council shall constitute the hearing board.
      (2)   A record of the entire proceedings shall be made by tape recording
or by any other means of permanent recording determined to be appropriate by
the City Council.
      (3)   A copy of the tape of the proceedings shall be made available to
all parties upon request and upon payment of the fee prescribed therefor.
      (4)   The City Council may grant continuances for good cause shown.
      (5)   In proceedings under this chapter, the Mayor or any Council member
has the power to administer oaths and affirmations and to certify the official
acts.
      (6)   Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses. However, oral evidence shall be taken only
on oath or affirmation.
      (7)   Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is the type of
evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of
serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory
rule which might make improper the admission of such evidence over objection in
civil actions in court of competent jurisdiction in the state.
      (8)   Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.
      (9)   Each party shall have these rights on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing:
         (a)   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing;
         (b)   To introduce documentary and physical evidence;
         (c)   To cross-examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to
the issues of the hearing;
         (d)   To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called
him or her to testify;
         (e)   To rebut the evidence against him or her; and
         (f)   To represent himself or herself or to be represented by anyone
of his or her choice who is lawfully permitted to do so.
      (10)   The City Council may inspect any building or premises involved in
the appeal during the course of the hearing; provided that:
         (a)   Notice of such inspection shall be given to the parties before
the inspection is made; and
         (b)   The parties are given opportunity to be present during the
inspection.
      (11)   The decision of the City Council shall be in writing and shall
contain findings of fact, a determination of the issues presented and the
requirements to be complied with. A copy of the decision shall be delivered to
the appellant personally or sent to him or her by certified mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested.
      (12)   The effective date of the order shall be as stated therein.
   (D)   Order of the City Council.
      (1)   After the public hearing before the City Council, if the building,
structure or dwelling is found in violation of the standards set out in this
chapter, the city may order that the building be vacated, secured, repaired,
removed and/or demolished by the owner within the time provided for in this
chapter. The city may also order that the occupants be relocated within a
reasonable time. If the owner does not take the ordered action within the
allotted time, the city shall make a diligent effort to discover each mortgagee
and lienholder having an interest in the building, structure or dwelling or in
the property on which the building is located. The city shall send each
identified mortgagee and lienholder a notice containing:
         (a)   An identification, which is not required to be a legal
description, of the building and the property on which it is located;
         (b)   A description of the violation of the standards that are present
at the building; and
         (c)   A statement that the city will vacate, secure, remove or
demolish the building or relocate the occupants of the building if the ordered
action is not taken within the time set out in this chapter.
      (2)   As an alternative to the procedure prescribed above, the city may
make a diligent effort to discover each mortgagee and lienholder before
conducting the public hearing and may give them notice of and an opportunity to
comment at the hearing. In addition, the city may file notice of the hearing in
the official public records of the real property of the county. The notice must
contain the name and address of the owner of the affected property if that
information can be determined from a reasonable search of the instruments on
record in the office of the County Clerk, a legal description of the affected
property and a description of the hearing. The filing of the notice is binding
on subsequent grantees, lienholders or other transferees of an interest in the
property who acquire such interest after the filing of the notice, and
constitutes notice of the hearing on any subsequent recipient of any interest
in the property who acquires such inters after the filing of the notice. The
order issued by the city may specify a reasonable time for the building to be
vacated, secured, repaired, removed or demolished by the owner or from the
occupants to be relocated by the owner and an additional reasonable time for
the ordered action to be taken by any of the mortgagees or lienholders in the
event the owner fails to comply with the order within the time provided for
action by the owner. The city is not required to furnish any notice to a
mortgagee or lienholder other than a copy of the order in the event the owner
fails to timely take the ordered action.
      (3)   Within ten days after the date that the order is issued, the city
shall:
         (a)   File a copy of the order in the office of the City Secretary;
and
         (b)   Publish in the newspaper of general circulation in the city a
notice containing:
            1.   The street address or legal description of the property;
            2.   The date of the hearing;
            3.   A brief statement indicating the results of the order; and
            4.   Instructions stating where a complete copy of the order may be
obtained.
      (4)   After the hearing, the city shall promptly mail by certified mail,
return receipt requested, a copy of the order to the owner of the building and
to any lienholder or mortgagee of the building. The city shall use its best
efforts to determine the identity and address of any owner, lienholder or
mortgagee of the building through records of the County Clerk and through other
sources available to the city.
      (5)   In conducting a hearing authorized under this chapter, the city
shall require the owner, lienholder or mortgagee of the building to within 30
days:
         (a)   Secure the building from unauthorized entry; or
         (b)   Repair, remove or demolish the building, unless the owner of
lienholder establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be
performed within 30 days.
      (6)   If the city allows the owner, lienholder or mortgagee more than 30
days to repair, remove or demolish the building, the city shall establish
specific time schedules for the commencement and performance of the work and
shall require the owner, lienholder or mortgagee to secure the property in a
reasonable manner from unauthorized entry while the work is being performed, as
determined by the City Council.
      (7)   The city will not allow the owner, lienholder or mortgagee more
than 90 days to repair, remove or demolish the building or fully perform all
work required to comply with the order unless the owner, lienholder or
mortgagee:
         (a)   Submits a detailed plan and time schedule for the work at the
hearing; and
         (b)   Establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be
completed within 90 days because of the cope and complexity of the work.
      (8)   If the city allows the owner, lienholder or mortgagee more than 90
days to complete any part of the work required to repair, remove or demolish
the building, the owner, lienholder or mortgagee must regularly submit progress
reports to the city to demonstrate that the owner, lienholder or mortgage has
complied with the time schedules established for commencement and performance
of the work. The order may require that the owner, lienholder or mortgagee
appear before the City Council to demonstrate compliance with the time
schedules. If the owner, lienholder or mortgagee owns property, including
structures or improvements on the property, within the municipal boundaries
that exceeds $100,000 in total value, the city may require the owner,
lienholder or mortgagee to post a cash or surety bond in an amount adequate to
cover the cost of repairing, removing or demolishing a building under this
chapter. In lieu of a bond, the city may require the owner, lienholder or
mortgagee to provide a letter of credit from a financial institution or a
guaranty from a third party approved by the city. The bond must be posted, or
the letter of credit or third party guaranty provided, not later than the
thirtieth day after the date the city issues the order.
      (9)   In a public hearing to determine whether a building complies with
the standards set out in this chapter, the owner, lienholder or mortgagee has
the burden of proof to demonstrate the scope of the work that may be required
to comply with the chapter and the time it will take to reasonably perform the
work.
      (10)   If the building is not vacated, secured, repaired, removed or
demolished, or the occupants are not relocated within the allotted time, the
city may vacate, secure, remove or demolish the building or relocate the
occupants at its own expense.
      (11)   If the city incurs expenses under division (D)(10) above or any
other section of this chapter, the city may assess the expenses on, and the
city has a lien against, unless it is a homestead as protected by the State
Constitution, the property on which the building was located. The lien is
extinguished if the property owner or another person having an interest in the
legal title to the property reimburses the city for the expenses. The lien
arises and attaches to the property at the time the notice of the lien is
recorded and indexed in the office of the County Clerk. The notice must contain
the name and address of the owner, if that information can be determined with a
reasonable effort, a legal description of the real property on which the
building was located, the amount of expenses incurred by the city and the
balance due.
      (12)   If the notice is given and the opportunity to relocate the tenants
of the building or to repair, remove or demolish the building is afforded to
each mortgagee and lienholder as authorized by this chapter, the lien is a
privileged lien subordinate only to tax liens.
(2004 Code, § 4-607) (Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 151.08 GUIDE FOR REPAIR, VACATION OR DEMOLITION.
   The following guide shall be followed by the City Council in determining
whether to order the repair, vacation or demolition of any uninhabitable or
dangerous building, structure or dwelling.
   (A)   Repair. If a building, structure or dwelling can reasonably be
repaired so that it will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this
chapter, the City Council shall order it repaired within the time provided in
this chapter.
   (B)   Vacation. If a building, structure or dwelling is in such conditions
as to make it a danger to the health, safety or general welfare of its
occupants or the citizens of the city or if deemed necessary for the abatement
of the nuisance, the City Council shall order it vacated.
   (C)   Demolition. The City Council may order a building, structure or
dwelling demolished if it:
      (1)   Is at least 50% damaged or deteriorated, on either a structural or
original value basis;
      (2)   Is an immediate danger to life or safety of any person and such
danger is not immediately remedied or corrected to eliminate the danger;
      (3)   Is in need of repair under this chapter and is not repaired within
the reasonable time set forth in the order; and/or
      (4)   Is in such condition as to make it dangerous to the health, safety
or general welfare, has been ordered vacated by the City Council and has not
been cured of the defects within a reasonable time.
(2004 Code, § 4-608) (Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 151.09 POSTING OF WARNINGS OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In the event the City Council makes a determination after the public
hearing that the building is deemed to be in violation of the terms of this
chapter, the Condemnation Officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to
such building a notice to read as follows:
 
DANGEROUS.
DO NOT ENTER, UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
 
Condemnation Officer of the City of Palm Valley
 
 
   (B)   Such notice shall remain posted until required repairs, demolition or
removal is completed and such premises have been rendered safe. Such notice
shall not be removed without written permission of the Condemnation Officer,
and not person shall enter the building, except for making inspections or
required repairs or to demolish such building.
(2004 Code, § 4-610) (Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-17-2003) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   After any order of the City Council made pursuant to this chapter
shall become effective, no person to whom any such order is directed shall
fail, neglect or refuse to obey any such order. Any such person who fails to
comply with any such order is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, such person shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,000 per
day that such failure, neglect or refusal to obey continues, each day
constituting a separate offense under this chapter.
   (B)   If, after any order of the City Council made pursuant to this chapter
has become effective, the person to whom such order is directed shall fail,
neglect or refuse to obey such order, the Condemnation Officer may cause such
person to be prosecuted under division (A) above, and/or the city may institute
any appropriate action to abate such building as a public nuisance.
   (C)   No person shall occupy any building which has been posted as specified
in this chapter. No persons shall remove or deface any such notice so posted
until the repairs, demolition or removal ordered by the City Council have been
completed pursuant to the provisions of all the applicable building codes and
ordinances.
   (D)   No person shall obstruct, impede or interfere with any officer,
employee, contractor or authorized representative of the city, or with any
person who owns or holds any estate or interest in any building which has been
ordered repaired, vacated or demolished under the provision of this chapter,
whenever such officer, employee, contractor or authorized representative of the
city, person having an interest or estate in such building or structure or
purchaser is engaged in the in the work of repairing, vacating and repairing,
or demolishing any such building pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, or
in performing any necessary act preliminary to or incidental to such work or
authorized or directed pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   Any owner, lienholder or mortgagee of record of property jointly or
severally aggrieved by an order of the city issued under this chapter may file
in District Court in the county, a verified petition setting forth that the
decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of the
illegality. The petition must be filed by an owner, lienholder or mortgagee
within 30 calendar days after the respective dates a copy of the final decision
of the city is personally delivered or mailed to them by first class mail,
certified, return receipt requested, or such decision shall become final as to
each of them upon the expiration of each such 30 calendar day period.
(2004 Code, § 4-609) (Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-17-2003)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
152.08   Development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.25   Floodplain Administrator; duties
   
152.26   Permit procedures
   
152.27   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.43   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones)
   
152.44   Floodways
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations; Construction, see
Ch. 150
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 156
   Zoning, see
Ch. 157
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the state has, in Tex. Water Code § 16.315, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City Council does ordain as follows.
(2004 Code, § 4-701) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(2004 Code, § 4-702) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolong business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to pubic facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(2004 Code, § 4-703) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodations of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(2004 Code, § 4-704) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH or VO zone on a community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% chance or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as ZONE A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed
ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavations or drilling operations.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.
      (1)   A non-basement building:
         (a)   Built, in the case of a building in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in Zones V1-30, VE or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means
of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of
the water; and
         (b)   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity
of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
      (2)   In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, Z and D,
ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundations perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movement of flood waters. In the case of Zones V1-30, VE or V,
ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of
ELEVATED BUILDING, even though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway
walls if the breakaway walls meet the standards of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(e)(5) of
the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before 1-1-1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION
may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See definition of FLOODING.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extend of the areas
within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY). The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for the following purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used for storage purpose only is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevations of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME also included park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
180 consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME does
not include park trailers, travel trailers and other similar vehicles.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501
et seq., (Pub. Law No. 97-348), includes substantial improvement and means the
date the building permit was issued; provided, the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within
180 days of the permit date. The actual START means either the first placement
of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab
or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purpose of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not the alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (3)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or Local Health, Safety, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications
which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
VARIANCE, therefore, permits constructions or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by this chapter. (For full requirement, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.6 of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in VIOLATION until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(2004 Code, § 4-705) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(2004 Code, § 4-706) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, “The Flood
Insurance Study for Palm Valley”, dated January 1967, revised May 1968, with
accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps (FIRM
and FBFM) and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
(2004 Code, § 4-707) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.08 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(2004 Code, § 4-708) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(2004 Code, § 4-709) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(2004 Code, § 4-710) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(2004 Code, § 4-711) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations.
   (B)   On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood heights
may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (C)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages.
   (D)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the community
or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(2004 Code, § 4-712) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.25 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 C.F.R. (National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining
to floodplain management.
(2004 Code, § 4-713)
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building
site will be reasonable safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
      (4)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies (including § 404 of the federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.) from which prior approval is
required;
      (5)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact locations of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation;
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency, which is the State Commission on Environmental Quality,
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (7)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
      (8)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
152.07 of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
form a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
§§
152.40 through
152.44 of this chapter; and
      (9)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
(2004 Code, § 4-714)
(Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of
special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the non-residential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
152.41(B) of this chapter;
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
152.25(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternate locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
(2004 Code, § 4-715) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.27 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgement on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision to the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall maintain a record of all actions involving an
appeal and shall report all variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
152.26(B) of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter.
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   (1)   Variance shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (J)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use; provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) above are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(2004 Code, § 4-716) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(2004 Code, § 4-717) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
152.07,
152.25(B) or
152.42(D) of this chapter, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A) as proposed in
§
152.26(A) of this chapter is satisfied.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division (B). A record of such certification which includes the
specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes be place within Zone A, shall
be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For the
purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored
to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   All manufactured homes shall be in compliance with division (D)(1)
above.
      (3)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
or above the base flood elevation; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provision of this division
(D)(3).
(2004 Code, § 4-718) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
152.02,
152.03 and
152.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet development permit
requirements of §§
152.08 and
152.26 of this chapter and the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions which are greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is lesser,
if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
152.07 and
152.25(B) of this chapter.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
(2004 Code, § 4-719) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.43 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES).
   (A)   Located within areas of special flood hazards established in §
152.07 of this chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding.
   (B)   These areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood
depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and
where the path of flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow;
therefore, the following provisions apply.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community’s FIRM (at lease two feet if no depth number is specified).
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor (including basement elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the dept number specified in feet on
the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if not depth number is specified); or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in §
152.26(A) of this chapter, are satisfied.
      (4)   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(2004 Code, § 4-720) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 152.44 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Floodways located within areas of special flood hazards established in
§
152.07 of this chapter are areas designated as floodways.
   (B)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion
potential, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development unless certification by a
professional registered engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels within the
community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (B)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this subchapter.
(2004 Code, § 4-721) (Ord. 88-1A, passed 2-16-1988)
CHAPTER 153: STORM DRAINAGE; ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose and intent
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Applicability
   
153.04   Responsibility for administration; ultimate responsibility
   
153.05   Severability
Protections and Prohibitions
   
153.20   Discharge prohibitions
   
153.21   Suspension of MS4 access
   
153.22   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
153.23   Monitoring of discharges
   
153.24   Requirement to prevent, control and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
153.25   Watercourse protection
   
153.26   Notification of spills
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.40   Enforcement generally
   
153.41   Appeal of notice of violation
   
153.42   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
153.43   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
153.44   Injunctive relief
   
153.45   Compensatory action
   
153.46   Violations deemed a public nuisance
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Flood Damage Prevention, see
Ch. 152
   Storm Water; Water Pollution Control, see
Ch. 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of non-storm
water discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable
as required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the Texas Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (TPDES) and the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit process.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) by storm water discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the Director of the
municipal agency, the TCEQ and/or the EPA designated to enforce this chapter
and/or to enforce the TPDES and/or to enforce the NPDES regulations.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to storm
water, receiving waters or storm water conveyance systems. BMPs also include
treatment practices, operating procedures and practices to control site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to TPDES construction permits.
Currently, these include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
one acre or more, as defined by the TPDES program. Such activities include, but
are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
153.20 of this chapter.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including,
but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
including sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent records and approved by the authorized enforcement agency, or
approved by an individual NPDES or TPDES permit.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that
authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether
the permit is applicable on an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which storm water is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water conveyance
systems and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   TEXAS POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (“TPDES”) STORM WATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the state, namely the Texas Commission on
Environmental Commission (TCEQ), under authority delegated pursuant to 33
U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the
United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group or
general area-wide basis.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 153.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
an authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 153.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION; ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   (1)   The city’s Water Service shall administer, implement and enforce
the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the Director of
the authorized enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency.
      (2)   Solely the authorized individual under this section designated to
enforce this chapter shall have the authority to enforce this chapter in its
entirety and shall be designated as a TPDES Storm Water Manager and/or
Inspector. The city’s Water Service shall issue these individuals a badge,
identification credentials and provide for annual training to assure compliance
with the laws of the state and federal regulators.
      (3)   All municipal departments shall comply with the requirements of
this chapter and are required to incorporate the authority of the authorized
individual into its respective daily operations.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
   (B)   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this
chapter are minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor
imply that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no
contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 153.05 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence or paragraph of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person, establishment or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
PROTECTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS
§ 153.20 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
municipal storm drain system or watercourses any materials, including, but not
limited to, pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or
contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than
storm water.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the storm drain system is prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes,
illicit connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection, except as described as follows:
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter:
            1.   Water line flushing or other potable water sources, landscape
irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising ground water, ground
water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped ground water,
foundation or footing drains (not including active ground water dewatering
systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs, non-
commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wet-land flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than one PPM chlorine),
firefighting activities and any other water source not containing pollutants;
            2.   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement
agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety; and
            3.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires
authorization by the authorized enforcement agency, prior to the time of the
test.
         (b)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under a TPDES or NPDES permit, waiver or waste discharge order issued
to the discharger and administered under the authority of the TCEQ or the EPA;
provided that, the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of
the permit, waiver or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and
provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm
drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.21 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
city’s Water Service may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to
a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps
as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the
United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may
have his or her MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce
an illicit discharge. The authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator
of the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the
authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 153.22 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity TPDES or NPDES
storm water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the city’s Water Service prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 153.23 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have storm
water discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction
activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The city’s Water Service shall be permitted to enter and inspect
facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized enforcement
agency.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the city’s Water Service ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of a
TPDES or NPDES permit to discharge storm water, and the performance of any
additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
      (3)   The city’s Water Service shall have the right to set up on any
permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the
authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the
facility’s storm water discharge.
      (4)   The city’s Water Service has the right to require the discharger to
install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and
monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to
measure storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their
accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the city’s Water Service and shall
not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city’s Water Service access to
a permitted facility is a violation of a storm water discharge permit and of
this chapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with a TPDES or NPDES
permit to discharge storm water associated with industrial activity commits an
offense if the person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable
access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity
authorized or required by this chapter.
      (7)   If the city’s Water Service has been refused access to any part of
the premises from which storm water is discharged, and he or she is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter
or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety
and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 153.24 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The city’s Water Service will adopt requirements identifying best management
practices for any activity, operation or facility which may cause or contribute
to pollution or contamination of storm water, the storm drain system or waters
of the state and United States. The owner or operator of a commercial or
industrial establishment shall provide, at his, her or their own expense,
reasonable protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or
other wastes into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the
use of these structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person
responsible for a property or premises, which is, or may be, the source of an
illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said person’s expense,
additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge
of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all
terms and conditions of a valid TPDES or NPDES permit authorizing the discharge
of storm water associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable,
shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs
shall be part of a storm water pollution prevention plan (SWP3) as necessary
for compliance with requirements of the TPDES or NPDES permit.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 153.25 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.26 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into storm water, the storm drain system or waters of the state or
the United States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a
release of hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency
response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the
event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the
authorized enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than
the next business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed
by written notice addressed and mailed to the city’s Water Service within three
business days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials
emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator
of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the
discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall
be retained for at least three years.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
153.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.40 ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   Whenever the city’s Water Service finds that a person has violated a
prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the authorized
enforcement agency may order compliance by written notice of violation to the
responsible person. Such notice may require, without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   Violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 153.41 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be received within
ten days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before
the appropriate authority or his or her designee shall take place within 15
days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the
municipal authority or its designee shall be final.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 153.42 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation or, in the event of an appeal, within ten days
of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency
or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.43 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within ten days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property
will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The
property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of the
assessment within ten days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely
manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by the
expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a
special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city by reason of such
violation. The liability shall be paid in not more than 12 equal payments.
Interest at the rate of 10% per annum shall be assessed on the balance
beginning on the first day following discovery of the violation.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 153.44 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the authorized
enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.45 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup and the like.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 153.46 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal prosecution. Any person that has violated or continues to
violate this chapter shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest
extent of the law, and shall be subject to a criminal penalty of $100 per
violation per day and/or imprisonment for a period of time not to exceed ten
days. The authorized enforcement agency may recover all attorneys’ fees court
costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including
sampling and monitoring expenses.
   (B)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the authorized enforcement
agency to seek cumulative remedies.
   (C)   Fines and policy. The city’s Water Service is authorized to develop a
schedule of fines and to develop policy from time to time to assure the
requirements of §
153.01 of this chapter are met. The schedule of fines shall adhere to all
applicable local, state and federal laws. The policy shall include, but will
not be limited to, development of a comprehensive TPDES enforcement program,
staff training requirements, development of job descriptions, assignment of
fines to specific violations, budget requirements and job assignments.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
CHAPTER 154: STORM WATER; WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Scope and intent
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Acceptable waters
   
154.05   Release reporting and cleanup
   
154.06   Right of entry, inspection and sampling
   
154.07   Citizen participation
Prohibitions
   
154.20   General
   
154.21   Used oil or vehicle fluid
   
154.22   Household hazardous waste
   
154.23   Discharge from fueling or vehicle washing areas
   
154.24   Discharge from oil-water separator or grease trap
   
154.25   Petroleum underground storage tanks (PUST)
   
154.26   Utility manhole or vault discharge
   
154.27   Industrial waste or effluent discharge
   
154.28   Sewage and waste water discharges
   
154.29   Chlorinated discharge
   
154.30   Construction, development, redevelopment and land disturbance run-off
   
154.31   Pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers
   
154.32   Commercial dumpster washing
   
154.33   Ready mix concrete truck washing
   
154.34   Illicit connection
   
154.35   Pavement, parking lot and window washing
   
154.36   Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) elimination
   
154.37   Asbestos elimination
   
154.38   Grass trimmings, leaves and limbs
   
154.39   Landscape, lawn and other irrigation
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to control pollution and prevent polluted
water discharge into the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) and/or
waterbodies from residential, business and commercial establishments, and to
preserve the natural flow of water and waterways within the city. The
provisions in this chapter are intended to provide a natural environment, to
control non-storm water runoff to the MS4 at its source, to minimize the
adverse effects of water pollution and to preserve the drinking water supplies.
It is also the purpose of this chapter to prevent and eliminate the wrongful
discharge of waste water and to prevent wash water discharges into the MS4. The
resulting discharges pollute storm water flows in ditches, streams and other
waterways, and thereby create an unhealthy situation, degrade water quality,
cause loss of aquatic life and pose a threat to public health and safety.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 154.02 SCOPE AND INTENT.
   This chapter sets forth guidelines, standard practices, rules and
regulations to control polluted storm water runoff and non-storm water
discharges from residential, commercial and industrial establishments.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the pollution of waters of the United States. BMP also includes
treatment requirements, operating procedures and practices to control site
runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw
material storage.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen by weight, expressed
in mg/l, utilized in the biological oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory conditions for five days at a temperature of 20°C.
   CHLORINATED DISCHARGE. Any discharge having a quantity of chlorine (free or
total) that exceeds the surface water quality standard of the state.
   CITY. The City of Palm Valley, Texas.
   COMMERCIAL DUMPSTER WASHING. The washing of commercial garbage or rubbish
dumpsters and the immediate area around them in order to remove putrescible
animal and vegetable waste material or other debris from said areas and
dumpsters.
   COMPOSITE. A sample used to determine average loadings or concentrations of
pollutants. A COMPOSITE can be developed based on time or flow.
   CWA. Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., (formerly referred to
as the federal Water Pollution Control Act or federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972).
   DISCHARGE. Any addition or introduction of any pollutant, storm water or any
other substance whatsoever into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4)
or into waters of the United States.
   DISCHARGE LIMITS. Any limit on discharges set by the local, state or federal
governments. These limits may apply to quantity, rate, quality of discharge and
concentration or any combination thereof. These are also called EFFLUENT/
IMITATIONS.
   DISCHARGER. Any person who causes, allows, permits or is otherwise
responsible for a discharge including, without limitation, any operator of a
construction site or industrial facility.
   DO IT YOURSELF (DIY) USED OIL. Used oil that is generated by a person who
changes the person’s own automotive oil.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The United States Environmental
Protection Agency, the regional office thereof, any federal department, agency
or commission that may succeed to the authority of the EPA, and any duly
authorized official of the EPA or such successor agency.
   EXCESSIVE WATER RUNOFF. Discharges deemed by the city to be significant
contributors of pollutants to the MS4 or other surface waters.
   FACILITY. Any building, structure, installation, process or activity from
which there is or may be a discharge of a pollutant.
   FUELING/VEHICLE WASHING AREAS. Any commercial location where any type of
motor vehicle or piece of heavy equipment is washed, waxed, cleaned or
degreased in any manner or any location where any type of motor vehicle is
fueled with petroleum products or any other type of fuel.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable wastes and residue from preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food; and from handling, processing, storage and sale of food
products and produce.
   HARMFUL/HAZARDOUS QUANTITY. The amount of any substance that will cause
pollution of water under state and federal law.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any material, substance, byproduct, spent, obsolete or used
chemical or chemical compound which meets the standards for classification of a
hazardous waste or acutely hazardous waste as those terms are defined in 40
C.F.R. parts 261 et seq. and any appendices thereto.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE (HHW). Any material generated in a household
(including, but not limited to, single and multiple residences, hotels and
motels, bunk houses, ranger stations, crew quarters, camp grounds, picnics
grounds and day use recreational areas) by a consumer such as, but not limited
to, batteries, paint brushes, paint containers, except for the exclusion
provided in 40 C.F.R. § 261.4(b)(1), would be classified as a hazardous waste
under 40 C.F.R. part 261.
   ILLEGAL DUMPING. The act of illegally placing any material in any location
including, but not limited to, the MS4, waters of the state, waters of the
United States or any location other than the appropriate place of disposal
whether the location is public or private.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any human-made conveyance connecting an illicit
discharge directly to a municipal separate storm sewer or waters of the United
States.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Liquids or other character of wastes resulting from any
commercial, manufacturing or industrial operations or process, excluding normal
domestic sanitary sewage unless it exceeds 280 mg/l BOD or 280 ml/L total
suspended solids, which waterborne or liquid wastes enter the sewage system, or
any portion thereof, of the city.
   INLET. An entrance into a ditch, storm sewer or other waterway.
   LANDFILL. An area of land or excavation in which wastes are placed for
permanent disposal, which is permitted or registered by the state, and which is
not a land application unit, surface impoundment, injection well or waste pile.
   MOTOR VEHICLE FLUID. Any fluid used in any type of engine including, but not
limited to, fuel, oil, transmission fluid, coolant, brake fluid, windshield
washing fluid and power steering fluid.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). The system of conveyances
(including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs,
gutters, inlets, ditches, human-made channels or storm drains) owned and
operated by the city and designed or used for collecting or conveying storm
water and which is not used for collecting or conveying sewage or waste water.
   NON-COMPLIANCE. Any infraction of the revised code of civil and criminal
ordinances of the city, state regulations/laws or federal regulations/laws.
   NON-POINT SOURCE POLLUTION. Pollution contained in storm water runoff from
ill-defined, diffuse sources.
   NOTIFY. Contacting the appropriate city official in writing in order to
request permission to apply or reapply for a specified permit, or to make the
official aware of an existing discharge or structure.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued by the EPA or by the state that authorizes the
discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is
applicable to an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
   OIL. Any kind of oil in any form, including, but not limited to, petroleum,
fuel oil, crude oil sludge, oil refuse and oil mixed with waste or any fraction
thereof which is liquid at standard conditions of temperature and pressure.
   OIL FILTER. An integral part of an oil-flow system, the purpose of which is
to remove contaminants from the flowing oil contained within the system.
   OIL WATER SEPARATOR/INTERCEPTOR. A device installed, usually at the entrance
of an inlet drain, which removes oil and grease from water flows entering
either the MS4 or sewer.
   OPERATOR. The person or persons who, either individually or in a group, meet
the following two criteria:
      (1)   They have operational control over the facility specifications
(including the ability to make modifications in specifications); and
      (2)   They have the day-to-day operational control over those activities
at the facility necessary to ensure compliance with pollution prevention
requirements and any permit conditions.
   OWNER. The person who owns a facility or part of a facility or his or her
assignee.
   OXYGEN DEMANDING SUBSTANCE. The chemical and/or microorganism-mediated
oxidation of organic matter; and/or the bio-oxidation of nitrogenous material;
and/or chemical or biochemical oxidation of chemical reducing agents.
   PAVEMENT WASH WATER. Any water used to wash any debris, sediment, fluid or
putrescible matter from any paved area of a commercial or public facility.
   PERMITTEE. Any person or entity to whom a permit is issued pursuant to this
chapter and any authorized representative, agents or designee of such person or
entity.
   PERSON or ENTITY. An individual, firm, co-partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint-stock association, including any trustee, receiver, assignee
or similar representative thereof, or government, Indian tribe, agency or
instrumentality of any government or Indian tribe, but such term does not
include:
      (1)   The United States Postal Service; or
      (2)   For the purpose of 49 U.S.C. §§ 5123 and 5124, any agency or
instrumentality of the federal government.
   PETROLEUM SUBSTANCE. A crude oil or any refined or unrefined fraction or
derivative of crude oil which is liquid at standard conditions of temperature
and pressure. A PETROLEUM SUBSTANCE shall be limited to one or a combination of
the substances or mixtures in the following list, except for any listed
substance regulated as a hazardous waste under the federal Solid Waste Disposal
Act, Subtitle C (42 U.S.C. §§ 6921 et seq.):
      (1)   Basic petroleum substances - crude oils, crude oil fractions,
petroleum feed stocks and petroleum fractions;
      (2)   Motor fuel - petroleum substance which is typically used for the
operation of internal combustion engines (including stationary engines and
engines used in transportation vehicles and marine vessels) and which is one of
the following types of fuels: leaded or unleaded gasoline, aviation gasoline,
Number 1 diesel fuel, Number 2 diesel fuel and any grades of gasohol;
      (3)   Aviation gasoline - Grade 80, Grade 100 and grade 1 00-LL;
      (4)   Aviation jet fuels - Jet A, Jet A-1, Jet B, JP-4, JP-5, and JP-8;
      (5)   Distillate fuel oils - Number 1-D, Number 1, Number 2-D and Number
2;
      (6)   Residual fuel oils - Number 4-D, Number 4-light, Number 4, Number
5-light, Number 5 heavy and Number 6;
      (7)   Gas turbine fuel oils - Grade O-CT, Grade 1-GT, Grade 2-GT, Grade
3-GT and Grade 4-GT;
      (8)   Illuminating oils - kerosene, mineral seal oil, long time burning
oils, 300 oil and mineral colza oil;
      (9)   Solvents - Stoddard solvent, petroleum spirits, mineral spirits,
petroleum ether, varnish makers; and painters’ naphthas, petroleum extender
oils and commercial hexane;
      (10)   Lubricants - automotive and industrial lubricants;
      (11)   Building materials - liquid asphalt and dust-laying oils;
      (12)   Insulating and waterproofing materials - transformer oils and
cable oils;
      (13)   Used oils - any oil or similar petroleum substance that has been
refined from crude oil, used for its designed or intended purposes, and
contaminated as a result of such use by physical or chemical impurities; and
including spent motor vehicle and aircraft lubricating oils (e.g., compressor,
turbine, bearing, hydraulic, metalworking, gear electrical, refrigerator oils
and spent industrial process oils); and
      (14)   Any other petroleum-based material having physical and chemical
properties similar to the previously listed materials.
   PETROLEUM UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (PUST). Any underground storage tank
system that contains, has contained or will contain a petroleum substance, a
mixture of two or more petroleum substances or a mixture of one or more
petroleum substances with very small amounts of one or more hazardous
substances. In order for a UST system containing a mixture of petroleum
substances with small amounts of hazardous substances to be classified as a
PUST system, the hazardous substance shall be at such dilute concentration that
the overall release detectability, effectiveness of corrective action and
toxicity of the basic petroleum substance is not altered to any significant
degree.
   pH. The logarithm to the base ten of the reciprocal of the concentration in
grams per liter of hydrogen ions; a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a
solution, expressed in standard units. The pH may range from zero to 14, where
zero is the most acidic and 14 is the most basic. Examples of substances having
a pH lower than 6.0 would be muratic acid, sulfuric acid and acetic acid.
Examples of substances having a pH above 10.5 would be drain cleaner (sodium
hydroxide), bleach and ammonia.
   POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance including,
but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
fissure, container, roiling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation,
landfill leachate collection system, vessel or other floating craft from which
pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does not include return flows
from irrigated agriculture or agricultural storm water runoff.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage,
sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and
industrial municipal, and agricultural wastes discharged into water. The term
POLLUTANT does not include tail water or runoff water from irrigation or
rainwater runoff from cultivated or uncultivated range land, pasture land and
farm land.
   POLLUTION. The alteration of the physical, thermal, chemical or biological
quality of, or the contamination of, any water in the state that renders the
water harmful, detrimental or injurious to humans, animal life, vegetation or
property, or to the public health, safety or welfare, or impairs the usefulness
or the public enjoyment of the water for any lawful or reasonable purpose.
   POLLUTION PREVENTION MEASURES. Prescribed measures to reduce pollutants in
discharge through outfalls. These measures include, but are not limited to,
treatment, pretreatment, a best management practice or a method to reduce the
pollution of projects classified as light construction and land disturbance
activities.
   POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYL (PCBs). A series of technical mixtures consisting
of many isomers and compounds that vary from mobile oil liquids to white
crystalline solids and hard non-crystalline resins. Technical products include,
but are not limited to, Arochlor, Chlophen, Chlorextol, Chloro Biphenyl,
Chloro-l,l-Biphenyl, Chlorodiphenylene, Clophen, Kykanol, Fenclor, Inerteen,
Kanechlor, Montar, Noflamol, PCB (DOT, USDA), Phenochlor, Pyranol, Santotherm,
Sovol and Therminol Fr-1 . PCBs are confirmed carcinogens and tumorigens and
are listed on the EPA Extremely Hazardous Substances List.
   PUBLIC USED OIL COLLECTION CENTER. A facility which accepts do-it-yourself
used oil. Such centers include:
      (1)   Automotive service facilities that in the course of business accept
for recycling, small quantities of used oil from private citizens;
      (2)   Facilities that store used oil in aboveground tanks, and that in
the course of business accept, for recycling, small quantities of used oil from
private citizens; and
      (3)   Publicly sponsored collection facilities that are designated and
authorized by the State Department of State Health Services to accept for
recycling, small quantities of used oil from private citizens.
   QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. Persons who possess the appropriate competence, skills
and ability (as demonstrated by sufficient education, training, experience and/
or, when applicable, any required certification or licensing) to perform a
specific activity in a timely and complete manner consistent with the
applicable regulatory requirements and generally-accepted industry standards
for such activity.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, infecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or disposing into the
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) or the waters of the United States.
   REPORTABLE QUANTITY (RQ). The quantity specified in Column 3 of the appendix
to 49 C.F.R. § 107.101 for any material identified in Column 1.
   RIPARIAN HABITAT. The area of the banks of any river, creek, lake, pond or
other waterway where specialized life forms exist.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste, excluding ashes, that consist of:
      (1)   Combustible waste materials, including paper, rags, cartons, wood,
excelsior, furniture, rubber, plastics, yard trimmings, leaves and similar
materials; and
      (2)   Non-combustible waste materials, including glass, crockery, tin
cans, aluminum cans, metal furniture and similar materials that do not burn at
ordinary incinerator temperatures (1,600°F to 1,800°F).
   SANITARY SEWER or SEWER. The system of pipes, conduits and other conveyances
which carry industrial waste and domestic sewage from residential dwellings,
commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities and institutions,
whether treated or untreated, to the city sewage treatment plant (and to which
storm water, surface water and ground water are not intentionally admitted).
   SEDIMENT. Solid particulate matter, both mineral and organic, that is in
suspension, is being transported or has been moved from its site of origin by
water, air, ice or gravity and has come to rest on the earth’s surface either
above or below sea level.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any domestic sewage from holding tanks such as from
vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE or SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals,
lavatories, sinks, bath tubs, showers, household laundries, basement floor
drains, garage floor drains, store rooms, soda fountains, cuspidors,
refrigerator drips, fountain and stable floor drains and all other similar
fixtures and receptacles that discharge wastes into sewage system.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling unit contained in a freestanding
structure designed for occupancy by a single family.
   SITE. The land or water area where any facility or activity is physically
located or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection with the
facility or activity.
   SOIL. Naturally occurring superficial deposits overlaying bedrock.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, rubbish, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment
plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility, and
other discarded material, including, solid, liquid, semisolid or contained
gaseous material resulting from industrial, municipal, commercial, mining and
agricultural operations, and from community and institutional activities.
   STATE. The State of Texas.
   STORM WATER. Storm water runoff, snow melt runoff and surface runoff and
drainage.
   TCEQ. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.
   TRANSPORTER. Any person who transports or plans to transport over public
highways of the state more than 500 gallons of used automotive oil annually.
   UNCONTAMINATED. Not containing a harmful quantity of any substance under
state and federal law.
   UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK. Any one or combination of underground tanks and
any connecting underground pipes used to contain an accumulation of regulated
substances, the volume of which, including the volume of the connecting
underground pipes, is 10% or more beneath the surface of the ground.
   USED OIL. Any oil that has been refined from crude oil or as a synthetic oil
that, as a result of use, storage or handling, has become unsuitable for its
original purpose because of impurities or the loss of original properties, but
that may be suitable for further use and is recyclable.
   UTILITY VAULT. An underground or enclosed structure installed or constructed
for the purpose of enclosing utility lines including, but not limited to,
electrical transmission lines, telephone connection lines, natural gas
conveyance lines, cable television lines, but not water mains, storm sewer or
sanitary sewer lines.
   WASH WATER. Any water used to wash any structure, parking lot, vehicle or
piece of heavy equipment.
   WATERBODIES. Any ground water, percolating or otherwise, lakes, bays, ponds,
impounding reservoirs, springs, rivers, streams, creeks, estuaries, marshes,
inlets, canals, the Gulf of Mexico, inside the territorial limits of the state,
and all other bodies of surface water, natural or artificial, inland or
coastal, fresh or salt, navigable or non-navigable, including the beds and
banks of all watercourses and bodies of surface water that are wholly or
partially inside or bordering the state or inside the jurisdiction of the
state.
   WATERS OF THE STATE or WATER. Any ground water, percolating or otherwise,
lakes, bays, ponds, impounding reservoirs, springs, rivers, streams, creeks,
estuaries, marshes, inlets, canals, the Gulf of Mexico, inside the territorial
limits of the state and all other bodies of surface water, natural or
artificial, inland or coastal, fresh or salt, navigable or non-navigable,
including the beds and banks of all watercourses and bodies of surface water
that are wholly or partially inside or bordering the state or inside the
jurisdiction of the state.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES.
      (1)   Waters which are currently used, were used in the past, or may be
susceptible to use in interstate or foreign commerce, including all waters
which are subject to the ebb and flow of the tide;
      (2)   All interstate waters, including interstate wetlands;
      (3)   All other waters such as interstate lakes, rivers, streams
(including intermittent streams), mudflats, sandflats, wetlands, sloughs,
prairie potholes, wet meadows, playa lakes or natural ponds the use,
degradation or destruction of which would affect or could affect interstate or
foreign commerce including any such water:
         (a)   Which are or could be used by interstate or foreign travelers
for recreational or other purposes;
         (b)   From which fish or shell fish are or could be taken and sold in
interstate or foreign commerce; or
         (c)   Which are used or could be used for industrial purpose by
industries in interstate commerce.
      (4)   All impoundments of waters otherwise defined as WATERS OF THE
UNITED STATES under this definition;
      (5)   Tributaries of waters identified in divisions (1) through (4) of
this definition;
      (6)   The territorial sea; and
      (7)   Wetlands adjacent to waters (other than waters that are themselves
wetlands) identified in divisions (1) through (6) of this definition.
   WASTE TREATMENT SYSTEMS. Including treatment ponds or lagoons designed to
meet the requirements of CWA are not waters of the United States. This
exclusion applies only to human-made bodies of water which neither were
originally created in waters of the United States (such as disposal areas in
wetlands), nor resulted from the impoundment of waters of the United States.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARD. The designation of a body or segment of surface
water in the state for desirable uses and the narrative and numerical criteria
deemed by the state to be necessary to protect those uses, as specified in Tex.
Administrative Code Title 31.
   WETLANDS. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface or ground water
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for
life in saturated soil conditions. WETLANDS generally include swamps, marshes,
bogs and similar areas.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 154.04 ACCEPTABLE WATERS.
   The following non-storm water sources, according to 40 C.F.R. § 122.26 and/
or the city’s MS4 permit, may be discharged from the small MS4 and are not
required to be addressed in the small MS4’s illicit discharge and detection or
other minimum control measures, unless they are determined by the city or the
TCEQ to be significant contributors of pollutants to the small MS4:
   (A)   Water line flushing (excluding discharges of hyper-chlorinated water,
unless the water is first de-chlorinated and discharges are not expected to
adversely affect aquatic life);
   (B)   Runoff or return flow from landscape irrigation, lawn irrigation and
other irrigation utilizing potable water, ground water or surface water sources
(excessive runoff can be deemed to be significant contributors of pollutants to
the small MS4);
   (C)   Discharges from potable water sources (excessive runoff can be deemed
to be significant contributors of pollutants to the small MS4);
   (D)   Diverted stream flows;
   (E)   Rising ground waters and springs;
   (F)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration;
   (G)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
   (H)   Foundation and footing drains;
   (I)   Air conditioning condensation;
   (J)   Water from crawl space pumps;
   (K)   Individual residential vehicle washing (excessive runoff can be deemed
to be significant contributor of pollutants to the small MS4);
   (L)   Flows from wetlands and riparian habitats;
   (M)   De-chlorinated swimming pool discharges;
   (N)   Street wash water (excessive runoff can be deemed to be significant
contributor of pollutants to the small MS4);
   (O)   Discharges or flows from firefighting activities (firefighting
activities do not include washing of trucks, run-off water from training
activities, test water from fire suppression systems and similar activities);
   (P)   Other allowable non-storm water discharges listed in 40 C.F.R. §
122.26(d)(2)(iv)(B)(1) (excessive runoff can be deemed to be significant
contributor of pollutants to the small MS4);
   (Q)   Non-storm water discharges that are specifically listed in the TPDES
MS4 permit or a site specific TPDES construction general permit (CGP); and
   (R)   Other similar occasional incidental non-storm water discharges, unless
the TCEQ develops permits or regulations addressing these discharges.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 154.05 RELEASE REPORTING AND CLEANUP.
   (A)   The person in charge of any facility, vehicle or other source of any
spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, escaping,
leaching, dumping, disposing or any other release of any of the following
quantities of any of the following substances that may flow, leach, enter or
otherwise be introduced into the MS4 and/or waters of the state and/or United
States, shall immediately telephone and notify either the City Water
Department, Fire Department or the Police Department concerning the incident:
      (1)   An amount equal to or in excess of a reportable quantity of any
hazardous substance, as established under 40 C.F.R. part 302;
      (2)   An amount equal to or in excess of a reportable quantity of any
extremely hazardous substance, as established under 40 C.F.R. part 355;
      (3)   An amount of oil that either:
         (a)   Violates applicable water quality standards; or
         (b)   Causes a film or sheen upon or discoloration of the surface of
the water or an adjoining shoreline or causes a sludge or emulsion to be
deposited beneath the surface of the water or upon an adjoining shoreline.
      (4)   Any harmful quantity of any pollutant.
   (B)   The immediate notification required by division (A) above shall
include the following information:
      (1)   The identity or chemical name of the substance released, and
whether the substance is an extremely hazardous substance;
      (2)   The exact location of the release, including any known name of the
waters involved or threatened and any other environmental media affected;
      (3)   The time and duration (thus far) of the release;
      (4)   An estimate of the quantity and concentration (if known) of the
substance released;
      (5)   The source of the release;
      (6)   Any known or anticipated health risks associated with the release
and, where appropriate, advice regarding medical attention that may be
necessary for exposed individuals;
      (7)   Any precautions that should be taken as a result of the release;
      (8)   Any steps that have been taken to contain and/or clean up the
released material and minimize its impacts; and
      (9)   The names and telephone numbers of the person or persons to be
contacted for further information.
   (C)   (1)   Within 15 days following such release, the responsible person in
charge of the facility, vehicle or other source of the release shall submit,
unless waived by both the City Water Department and Fire Department, a written
report containing each of the items of information specified above in divisions
(B)(1) through (B)(8) above, as well as the following additional information:
         (a)   The ultimate duration, concentrations and quantity of the
release;
         (b)   All actions taken to respond to, contain and clean up the
released substances, and all precautions taken to minimize the impacts:
         (c)   Any known or anticipated acute or chronic health risks
associated with the release;
         (d)   The identity of any governmental/private sector representatives
responding to the release; and
         (e)   The measures taken or to be taken by the responsible person(s)
to prevent similar future occurrences.
      (2)   The notifications required by divisions (B) and (C)(1) above shall
not relieve the responsible person of any expense, loss, damage or other
liability which may be incurred as a result of the release, including any
liability for damage to the city, to natural resources or to any other person
or property; nor shall such notification relieve the responsible person of any
fine, penalty or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter,
state or federal law.
   (D)   Any person responsible for any release as described in division (A)
above shall comply with all state, federal and any other local law requiring
reporting, cleanup, containment and any other appropriate remedial action in
response to the release.
   (E)   Any person responsible for a release described in division (A) above
shall reimburse the city for any cost incurred by the city in responding to the
release.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 154.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY, INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to enter the premises of any person
discharging storm water to the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) and/
or to waters of the state and/or United States to determine if the discharger
is complying with all requirements of this chapter, and with any state or
federal discharge permit, limitation or requirement. Dischargers shall allow
the city ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, records examination, photo recording and copying, and for
the performance of any additional duties. Dischargers shall make available to
the city, upon request, any pollution control measures or modifications
thereto, self-inspection reports, monitoring records, compliance evaluations,
notices of intent, and any other records, reports or documents related to
compliance with this chapter and with any state or federal discharge permit.
   (B)   Where a discharger has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon
presentation of suitable identification, the city will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing responsibilities.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to set up on the discharger’s property,
or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling
and/or metering of the discharger’s operations.
   (D)   The city may require, at his or her reasonable discretion, any
discharger to conduct specified sampling, testing, analysis and other
monitoring of its storm water discharges, and may specify the frequency and
parameters of any such required monitoring.
   (E)   The city may require, at his or her reasonable discretion, the
discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary at the discharger’s
expense. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its
own expense. All devices used to measure storm water flow, waste water and
quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
   (F)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
discharger at the written or verbal request of the city and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the discharger.
   (G)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to the discharger’s
premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 154.07 CITIZEN PARTICIPATION.
   All citizens are encouraged to report to the city’s Water Department or to
the hotline (956) 423-8384, any spills, releases, illicit connections or any
other instances of anyone discharging pollutants into MS4 storm sewer system or
waters of the state or waters of the United States and any other violation of
this chapter which they become aware.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 154.20 GENERAL.
   (A)   No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the MS4 or
waterbodies any discharge that causes or contributes to causing the city to
violate a water quality standard, the city’s TPDES permit or any state-issued
discharge permit for discharges from its MS4 or waterbodies.
   (B)   No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the MS4 or
waterbodies any harmful quantity of sediment, silt, earth, soil or other
material associated with clearing, grading, excavations or other construction
activities in excess of what could be retained on site or captured by employing
sediment and erosion control measures to the maximum extent practicable; for
the duration of the project.
   (C)   No person shall dump, spill, leak, pump, pour, emit, empty, discharge,
leach, dispose or otherwise, cause, allow or permit to be introduced any of the
following substances into the MS4 or waterbodies.
   (D)   No person shall introduce or discharge or cause or permit to be
discharged into the MS4 or waterbodies within the city limits any of the
following (§§
154.21 to
154.23 of this chapter), except as authorized by a valid permit from the city
or the TCEQ or the EPA.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.21 USED OIL OR VEHICLE FLUID.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce the amount of
pollutants like oil, grease, heavy metals and oxygen demanding substances in
storm water discharges.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall:
      (1)   Introduce used oil, used oil filters or any other motor vehicle
fluids to the MS4 or waterbodies;
      (2)   Apply used oil and/or vehicle fluid to a road or land for dust
suppression, weed abatement or other similar use that introduces used oil
contamination into the environment;
      (3)   Introduce flammable or explosive liquids, solids or gases such as,
but not limited to, gasoline, motor oil, benzene, naphtha and similar
substances to any waterbodies and/or the MS4; or
      (4)   Introduce any wax, grease, oil, antifreeze or any other motor
vehicle fluid to any waterbodies and/or to the MS4.
   (C)   Implications. This section implies that all citizens shall recycle
their used motor oil and vehicle fluids by disposing of them at appropriate
recycling centers and locations, rather than disposing of them improperly. This
applies only to residential do-it-yourself (DIY) motor oil and vehicle fluids.
Commercial and industrial businesses should have their own vendors for proper
disposal or for recycling.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.22 HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to discourage the practice
of disposing household hazardous waste such as paint, batteries, cleaning
agents and fertilizers, to the MS4 and/or waterbodies, so as to reduce the
pollutants such as heavy metals, nutrients, toxic material, oil and grease in
storm water discharges.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall:
      (1)   Introduce any type of hazardous waste generated in and around a
household including, but not limited to, batteries, used paints, solvents, used
pesticide bottles/cans and used toiletries in to the MS4;
      (2)   Discharge a household hazardous waste having a pH value lower than
6.0 or higher than 10.5; or
      (3)   Place, or cause, or allow to be placed, a household hazardous waste
within the MS4 and/or waterbodies. It shall be also unlawful for any person to
place, or cause or allow to be placed, a household hazardous waste in a inlet
within any street in the corporate limits of the city in such a manner that the
same may be washed by the flow of water into the MS4 and/or waterbodies.
   (C)   Implications. This section implies that unused portions of household
hazardous products that are considered to be household hazardous waste should
be disposed of properly at a household hazardous waste collection site or
through the city’s Household Hazardous Waste Collection and Proper Disposal
Program. In the absence of a reasonably nearby household hazardous waste
collection site or of a city’s Household Hazardous Waste Collection and Proper
Disposal Program, household hazardous products that are considered to be
household hazardous waste should be disposed of properly through the local
solid waste sanitary landfill collection program.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.23 DISCHARGE FROM FUELING OR VEHICLE WASHING AREAS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to discourage the practice
of discharging contaminated water or waste such as grease trap waste, oil/water
separator waste, into the MS4 and/or waterbodies and to reduce pollutants such
as detergents, sediments, oil, grease, heavy metals and oxygen demanding
substances in the discharges from fueling and vehicle washing areas.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall:
      (1)   Introduce into the MS4 and/or waterbodies any contaminated water or
waste from a commercial car wash facility, from any vehicle washing, cleaning
or maintenance area at any new or used automobile or other vehicle dealership,
rental agency, body shop, repair shop, maintenance facility or from any
washing, cleaning or maintenance area of any commercial or public service
vehicle, including any truck, bus or piece of heavy equipment, by any business
or public entity;
      (2)   Introduce into the MS4 and/or waterbodies any wash water from the
washing, cleaning, deicing or other maintenance of aircraft; or
      (3)   Discharge into the MS4 and/or waterbodies any contaminated water or
waste from commercial establishments including, but not limited to, gas
stations, service stations and auto repair shops with areas exposed to weather
conditions.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.24 DISCHARGE FROM OIL-WATER SEPARATOR OR GREASE TRAP.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as oil, grease, oxygen demanding substances and nutrients from illicit
connections of oil water separators/grease traps into the MS4 and/or
waterbodies.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall:
      (1)   Discharge from an oil water separator or an oil/water interceptor
or grease trap into the MS4 and/or waterbodies; or
      (2)   Discharge flow from an oil/water separator or an oil/water
interceptor having a pH value lower than 6.0 or higher than 10.5.
   (C)   Implications. All the oil/water separator or interceptor users who are
discharging to the MS4 shall notify the city’s Water Department of the
existence of such connections to the MS4 and/or waterbodies. Such notification
shall be completed within 60 days of the approval of this chapter. It is the
responsibility of the operator to notify the city’s Water Department. If the
notification is not made during the allocated 60 days, then the detected
connections to MS4 and/or waterbodies of an oil/water separator or interceptor
shall be considered an illicit connection. The city reserves the right to
terminate such connection immediately, without prior notice.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.25 PETROLEUM UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (PUST).
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as oil, grease, oxygen demanding substances and heavy metals that may be
introduced into the MS4 and/or waterbodies during the removal, replacement or
remediation of petroleum underground storage tanks and sites.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall release from a petroleum underground
storage tank (PUST), or any leachate or runoff from soil contaminated by a
leaking PUST, or any discharge of pumped, confined or partially treated
wastewater from the remediation of any such PUST release is prohibited unless
the discharge satisfies all of the following criteria:
      (1)   Compliance with all local, state and federal standard requirements
and regulations;
      (2)   No discharge contains no harmful quantity of any pollutant; or
      (3)   Shall not have a pH value lower than 6.0 or higher than 10.5.
   (C)   Implications. It is the responsibility of the owner of the property to
notify the city’s Water Department of the removal or replacement of a PUST.
Such notification shall be completed not less than three days before any
activity begins on the site. If the notification is not made at least three
days before the site activities commence, the owner will be considered in non-
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 154.26 UTILITY MANHOLE OR VAULT DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as bacteria, nutrients, sediments, oil, grease and any unknown substance
discharges from utility manholes or vaults into the MS4 and/or waterbodies.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall:
      (1)   Discharge from any public or private underground utility manhole
(including, but not limited to, electric power, gas pipeline, cable companies,
telephone companies) to discharge its collected water (due to rain or surface
runoff or cross connection or illegal discharge) into the MS4 and/or
waterbodies or watercourse; or
      (2)   Discharge into MS4 and/or waterbodies from a utility manhole a flow
having pH value
lower than 6.0 or higher than 10.5.
   (C)   Implications. All the utility manhole/vault operators who are
discharging potentially contaminated collected water into the MS4 and/or
waterbodies shall notify the city’s Water Department of the existence of such
utility manholes, vaults and discharges into the MS4 and/or waterbodies. Such
notification shall be completed within 60 days of the approval of this chapter.
It is the responsibility of the operators to obtain a single use discharge
permit from the Water Department for every discharge and also prove with the
aid of analytical testing that the discharged flow is not contaminated, if the
discharged flow is not pretreated.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.27 INDUSTRIAL WASTE OR EFFLUENT DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as toxic materials, heavy metals, oil, grease and untreated sewage in
storm water discharges from industrial facilities.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall:
      (1)   Discharge or introduce any effluent including, but not limited to,
a cooling tower, condenser, compressor, emissions scrubber, emissions filter or
the blow down from a boiler into the MS4 and/or waterbodies; or
      (2)   Discharge or introduce any type of industrial waste or effluent
and/or any discharge having a pH value lower than 6.0 or higher than 10.5 into
the MS4 and/or waterbodies.
   (C)   Implications. This section implies that none of the aforementioned
unpermitted industrial discharges will be allowed in the MS4 and/or
waterbodies. The industries are encouraged to apply for individual TPDES
permits from the TCEQ.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.28 SEWAGE AND WASTE WATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as sewage entering surface waterbodies from septic systems.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall:
      (1)   Discharge any type of waste water from residential, commercial or
industrial sources into the MS4 and/or waterbodies;
      (2)   Discharge or introduce any domestic sewage or septic tank waste,
grease trap waste or grit trap waste from either residential, commercial or
industrial sites into the MS4 and/or waterbodies; or
      (3)   Discharge any runoff or washdown water from any animal pen, kennel
or fowl or livestock containment area.
   (C)   Implications. This section implies that no domestic sewage, septic
tank waste, grease trap waste, waste from animal containment areas or grit trap
waste may enter into the MS4 and/or waterbodies. This includes areas where the
naturally occurring movement of water through the soil may cause the sewage to
migrate into said waterbodies and/or the MS4.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.29 CHLORINATED DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to reduce the pollutants
such as excess chlorine in water discharges from swimming pools, fountains,
ponds and water line disinfection.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall:
      (1)   Discharge any swimming pool water or filter backwash from a
swimming pool or fountain into the MS4 and/or waterbodies;
      (2)   Discharge from a water line if it has been disinfected by super
chlorination or other means and the total residual chlorine exists in any
harmful quantity or any other chemical has been used in line disinfection; or
      (3)   Treat sewage overflows with harmful amounts (detrimental to aquatic
life) of chlorine to the MS4 and/or waterbodies.
   (C)   Implications. This implies that discharges with hazardous amounts of
chlorine, including, but not limited to, the aforementioned discharges, may not
enter waterbodies and/or the MS4.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.30 CONSTRUCTION, DEVELOPMENT, REDEVELOPMENT AND LAND DISTURBANCE RUN-OFF.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as sediments, heavy metals, toxic material and nutrients in the storm
water discharges from construction, development, redevelopment and land
disturbance activities/sites.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall:
      (1)   Discharge from a construction site flow having a pH value lower
than 6.0 or higher than 10.5;
      (2)   Discharge any type of industrial waste from construction sites to
the MS4 and/or waterbodies;
      (3)   Introduce any garbage, rubbish or yard waste into the MS4 and/or
waterbodies;
      (4)   Discharge, including, but not limited to, paint or paint brush
cleaning water or solvents or thinners or turpentine or any other combination
from single-family dwelling or any construction;
      (5)   Leave unused construction materials or used construction materials
or debris on the construction, development, redevelopment and land disturbance
sites. All on-site debris shall be properly disposed of in the landfill within
30 days from the occupancy of the structures; or
      (6)   Wash any type of trucks, including, but not limited to, ready mix
trucks or material supply trucks on or around the construction site.
   (C)   Implications. This section implies that the aforementioned discharges
and/or materials associated with construction, development, redevelopment and
land disturbance activities may not enter waterbodies and/orMS4s.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.31 PESTICIDES, HERBICIDES AND FERTILIZERS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce pollutants such
as pesticides, fertilizers, heavy metals, oxygen demanding substances and
nutrients in the storm water discharges.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall dispose of, discard, store or transport a
pesticide, herbicide or fertilizer, or a pesticide, herbicide or fertilizer
container, in a manner that allows a harmful quantity of the pesticide,
herbicide or fertilizer to enter the MS4 and/or waterbodies.
   (C)   Implications. This section implies that pesticides, herbicides and
fertilizers must be applied responsibly. It is recognized that excess
pesticides will migrate into the MS4 even under normal and proper usage. It is
the intent of this chapter to restrict usage of those chemicals in a manner
deemed appropriate by their manufacturer and consistent with the federal
Insecticide, Fungicide, Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), being 7 U.S.C. §§ 136 et seq.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.32 COMMERCIAL DUMPSTER WASHING.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as bacteria and unknown substances in waste water discharges from dumpster
washing.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall wash a commercial dumpster, regardless of
its location, in an area where it discharges directly into MS4 and/or
waterbodies.
   (C)   Implications. This section implies that wash water from commercial
dumpster washings may not enter any waterbody and/or the MS4. This water must
be contained and entered into the sanitary sewer according to the requirements
set forth by the City Water Department.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.33 READY MIX CONCRETE TRUCK WASHING.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce pollutants such
as sediments, concrete, altered pH and oxygen demanding substances in the wash
water discharges.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall wash residual ready mix concrete from
concrete mixing trucks regardless of its location, in an area where discharges
might enter the MS4 and/or waterbodies.
   (C)   Implications. This section implies that wash water from concrete
mixing or excess concrete from concrete mixing trucks may not be discharged
into the MS4 and/or waterbodies. The washing is permitted in the ready mix
concrete plant only if collected, contained and pretreated before discharging
into the sanitary sewer in accordance with the requirements set forth by the
City Water Department. The washing is permitted within a construction site only
if collected, contained and disposed of in accordance with approved best
management practices set forth by the City Water Department.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.34 ILLICIT CONNECTION.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to eliminate illicit
connections to the MS4 and reduce the pollutants such as nutrients, oxygen
demanding substances, sewage, oil and grease introduced by said discharges into
the MS4 and/or waterbodies.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall connect a line conveying sanitary sewage,
domestic waste or industrial effluent to the MS4 and/or waterbodies, or allow
such a connection to continue.
   (C)   Implications. The City Water Department has an Illicit Discharge
Detection and Elimination Program to the MS4 and waterbodies in compliance with
state and federal storm water regulations. Any illicit connections detected
through this program will be dealt with expeditiously in the following manner:
It is the responsibility of the owner of the property to disconnect such
illicit connection within ten days upon written notification from the city. The
city will also notify the tenant about the illicit connection. If the owner
fails to respond to the notification, then the city will post the illicit
connection information with a legal description of the property in a local
newspaper with an additional ten days time to respond. If no response is
received from the owner, then the illicit connection will be disconnected by
the city without further notification.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.35 PAVEMENT, PARKING LOT AND WINDOW WASHING.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as sediments, detergents, oxygen demanding substances, heavy metals, oil
and grease in the wash water discharges from pavements or parking lots from
commercial and business establishments.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall:
      (1)   Discharge any waste water from the washing or cleaning of pavement
including, but not limited to, parking lots, driveways or carports that contain
soap, detergent, solvent, degreaser, emulsifler, dispersant or any other
harmful cleaning substance or any wastewater from the wash down or other
cleaning of any pavement where any spill, leak or other release of oil, motor
fuel or other petroleum or hazardous substance has occurred, unless all harmful
quantities of such released material have been previously removed or
pretreated; or
      (2)   Discharge any wash water from a commercial mobile power washer or
from the washing or other cleaning of a pavement or building exterior,
including, but not necessarily limited to, windows, that contains any soap,
detergent, degreaser, solvent or any other harmful cleaning substance to MS4
and/or waterbodies.
   (C)   Implications. This section implies that wash water from the washing of
pavement including, but not limited to, parking lots, driveways, building
exteriors or carports may not enter any waterbody and/or the MS4 without proper
treatment. The washing is permitted only if collected, contained and pretreated
before discharging into the sanitary sewer in accordance with the requirements
set forth by the city or if collected, contained and disposed of in accordance
with approved best management practices set forth by the City Water Department.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.36 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) ELIMINATION.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce the possibility
of contamination of storm water by PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls),
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall discharge, introduce, cause or permit any
PCB or any substance known or suspected of containing PCBs, or technical
products classified as PCBs, or derivatives of PCBs into the MS4 and/or
waterbodies, or any location that is susceptible to storm water runoff within
the city’s jurisdictional limits.
   (C)   Implications. This section implies that no PCBs, substance containing
PCBs or substance suspected of containing PCBs shall be introduced into any
waterbody and/or MS4. The public utility companies, such as power, gas and
telephone, shall notify the city’s Water Department of any such spills, leaks,
overflows from sources including, but not limited to, transformers and
capacitors within six hours of such mishaps.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.37 ASBESTOS ELIMINATION.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce the possibility
of contamination of storm water by asbestos.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall discharge, introduce, cause or permit to
be discharged any asbestos or any substance known or suspected of containing
asbestos, or technical products classified as asbestos, or derivatives of
asbestos into the MS4 and/or waterbodies, or any location that is susceptible
to storm water runoff within the city’s jurisdictional limits.
   (C)   Implications. This section implies that no asbestos, substance
containing asbestos or substance suspected of containing asbestos may be
introduced into any waterbody or MS4.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.38 GRASS TRIMMINGS, LEAVES AND LIMBS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce pollutants like
sediments, nutrients, floatable materials, oxygen demanding substances,
pesticides and unknowns in the storm water discharges from trimmings of grass,
leaves and limbs.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall intentionally place or cause or allow to
be placed, or dropped, brush cuttings, grass clippings, grass and/or rubbish in
the inlets of any street in the city limits in such a manner that the same may
be washed by water flowing into any bodies of water and/or the MS4.
   (C)   Implications. This section implies that no brush cuttings, grass
clippings, grass and/or rubbish shall be introduced into any waterbodies and/or
the MS4.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.39 LANDSCAPE, LAWN AND OTHER IRRIGATION.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as sediments, chlorine, pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers in the
water runoff discharges from runoff or return flow from landscape irrigation,
lawn irrigation and other irrigation, including agricultural irrigation.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall:
      (1)   Discharge any excessive water runoff from discharges resulting from
normal landscape irrigation, lawn irrigation and other irrigation; or
      (2)   Discharge any water runoff from discharges resulting from
inefficient practices, from faulty equipment, from improperly placed equipment,
from use of equipment in violation of local, state and/or federal regulations,
from unpermitted irrigation systems, where applicable, from leaking equipment
from leaking conveyance systems or from other leaking appurtenances.
   (C)   Implications. This section implies that excessive water runoff
discharges from runoff or return flow from landscape irrigation, lawn
irrigation and other irrigation, including agricultural irrigation, may not
enter any waterbody and/or the MS4. Landscape irrigation, lawn irrigation and
other irrigation, including agricultural irrigation, must be conducted in
accordance with approved best management practices set forth by the City Water
Department.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation.
      (1)   A penalty is hereby established whereby any person who shall
violate any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined a minimum amount of not less
than $500 per violation and a maximum amount of not more than $2,000 per
violation. Each day of violation and each violation of a particular section of
this chapter shall constitute a separable, offense for purposes of the city’s
enforcement of this chapter. A culpable mental state is not required to prove
an offense under this chapter.
      (2)   Upon the written certification by the city of the violation of any
section of this chapter, the City Attorney is authorized to petition any court
of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to enjoin the continuance of such
violation. This remedy shall be cumulative of and to all other enforcement
powers granted to the city by the terms of its Charter or any ordinance, or by
the laws of the state or the United States. No provision of this chapter is
intended, nor shall any part or portion hereof be construed so as to conflict
with the State Water Code, state regulations or federal regulations.
      (3)   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance shall be held to be invalid, the remainder of this
chapter and the application of such provision to other persons and
circumstances shall nevertheless be valid, and the City Council hereby declares
that this chapter would have been enacted without such invalid provision.
      (4)   If compliance is not achieved to the city’s satisfaction, the city
may, at its discretion, report the non-compliance to the USEPA, the TCEQ, the
USGS, the U.S. Wildlife and Fisheries, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or any
other state or federal agency for further action.
   (B)   Non-compliance flag and stop work orders. If the city determines that
activities are being carried out in violation of this chapter, a notification
of non-compliance shall be issued. In addition to the notification, if the
violation continues beyond five days, a non-compliance flag will be posted at
the site. Finally, if the violation continues after the five days after the
non-compliance flag is posted, the city may stop all work until corrective
measures have been completed. The site shall be posted with a stop work notice.
No other permits may be issued by the city until corrections have been made to
the satisfaction of the city. It is also against this chapter either to move or
interfere with non-compliance flag and/or stop work orders and shall be
considered as additional violation(s) of this chapter.
   (C)   Notification of violation. Any person found to be in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be required to correct the problem upon
written notification from the city. Such written notification may require that
certain conditions be adhered to in the correction of the problem. These may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Use of specific pollution prevention measures and techniques;
      (2)   Use of pretreatment procedures pollution prevention plans;
      (3)   Modification of existing plan;
      (4)   Completion of work within a specified time period; and
      (5)   Submission of pollution prevention plan or any other of its type.
   (D)   Appeals. Any person denied discharge to MS4 shall have the right to
appeal such to the City Manager’s office within 45 days of the date of such
denial.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
CHAPTER 155: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
   
155.01   Introduction and purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Responsibility for administration and permits
   
155.04   Review and approval
   
155.05   Erosions and Sediment Control Plan
   
155.06   Design requirements
   
155.07   Inspection
   
155.08   Enforcement
   
155.09   Separability
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   During the construction process, soil is highly vulnerable to erosion
by wind and water. Eroded soil endangers water resources by reducing water
quality and causing the siltation of aquatic habitat for fish and other
desirable species. Eroded soil also necessitates repair of sewers and ditches
and the dredging of lakes. In addition, clearing and grading during
construction cause the loss of native vegetation necessary for terrestrial and
aquatic habitat.
   (B)   As a result, the purpose of this local regulation is to safeguard
persons, protect property and prevent damage to the environment in city. This
chapter will also promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and
controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development or
other activity that disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in the movement
of earth on land in city.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFIED CONTRACTOR. A person who has received acceptable training and is
authorized by its employer to inspect and maintain erosion and sediment control
practices.
   CLEARING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to TPDES construction permits.
Currently, these include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
one acre or more, or as defined by the TPDES program. Such activities include,
but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and
demolition.
   DRAINAGE WAY. Any channel that conveys surface runoff throughout the site.
   EROSION CONTROL. A measure that prevents erosion.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL AGENCY. Employees or designees of the director
of the municipal agency, the TCEQ and/or the EPA designated to enforce this
chapter and/or to enforce the TPDES and/or to enforce the NPDES regulations.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A set of plans prepared by or under the
direction of a licensed professional engineer or other acceptable professional
indicating the specific measures and sequencing to be used to control sediment
and erosion on a development site during and after construction.
   GRADING. Excavation or fill of material, including the resulting conditions
thereof.
   PERIMETER CONTROL. A barrier that prevents sediment from leaving a site by
filtering sediment-laden runoff or diverting it to a sediment trap or basin.
   PHASING. Clearing a parcel of land in distinct phases, with the
stabilization of each phase completed before the clearing of the next.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Measures that prevent eroded sediment from leaving the
site.
   SITE. A parcel of land or a contiguous combination thereof, where grading
work is performed as a single unified operation.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the municipality for the
construction or alteration of ground improvements and structures for the
control of erosion, runoff and grading.
   STABILIZATION. The use of practices that prevent exposed soil from eroding.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first land-disturbing activity associated with a
development, including land preparation such as clearing, grading and filling;
installation of streets and walkways; excavation for basements, footings, piers
or foundations; erection of temporary forms; and installation of accessory
buildings such as garages.
   WATERCOURSE. Any body of water, including, but not limited to, lakes, ponds,
rivers, streams and bodies of water delineated by the city.
   WATERWAY. A channel that directs surface runoff to a watercourse or to the
public storm drain.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 155.03 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION AND PERMITS.
   (A)   The city’s Water Service shall administer, implement and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the Director of
the authorized enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency.
   (B)   Solely the authorized individual under this section designated to
enforce this chapter shall have the authority to enforce this chapter in its
entirety and shall be designated as a TPDES Storm Water Manager and/or
Inspector. The city’s Water Service shall issue these individuals a badge,
identification credentials and provide for annual training to assure compliance
with the laws of the state and federal regulators.
   (C)   All municipal departments shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter and are required to incorporate the authority of the authorized
individual into its respective daily operations.
   (D) No person shall be granted a site development permit for land-disturbing
construction activity without the approval of an Erosion and Sediment Control
Plan by the city’s Water Service.
   (E)   No site development permit is required for the following activities:
      (1)   Any emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the
protection of life, property or natural resources; and
      (2)   Existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a
permitted main or accessory use.
   (F)   Each application shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner
or developer of the site, and of any consulting firm retained by the applicant
together with the name of the applicant’s principal contact at such firm and
shall be accompanied by a filing fee.
   (G)   Each application shall include a statement that any land clearing,
construction or development involving the movement of earth shall be in
accordance with the Erosion and Sediment Control Plan and that a certified
contractor shall be on site on all days when construction or grading activity
takes place.
   (H)   The applicant will be required to file with the city a faithful
performance bond, letter of credit or other improvement security in an amount
deemed sufficient by the city’s Water Service to cover all costs of
improvements, landscaping, maintenance of improvements for such period as
specified by the city and engineering and inspection costs to cover the cost of
failure or repair of improvements installed on the site.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 155.04 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   The city’s Water Service will review each application for a site
development permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
regulation. Within 30 days after receiving an application, the city’s Water
Service shall, in writing:
      (1)   Approve the permit application;
      (2)   Approve the permit application subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this
regulation and issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
      (3)   Disapprove the permit application, indicating the reason(s) and
procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
   (B)   Failure of the city’s Water Service to act on an original or revised
application within 30 days of receipt shall authorize the applicant to proceed
in accordance with the plans as filed unless such time is extended by agreement
between the applicant and the city’s Water Service. Pending preparation and
approval of a revised plan, development activities shall be allowed to proceed
in accordance with conditions established by the city’s Water Service.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 155.05 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   The Erosion and Sediment Control Plan shall include the following:
      (1)   A natural resources map identifying soils, forest cover and
resources protected under other chapters of this code. This map should be at a
scale no smaller than one inch equals 100 feet;
      (2)   A sequence of construction of the development site, including
stripping and clearing; rough grading; construction of utilities,
infrastructure and buildings; and final grading and landscaping. Sequencing
shall identify the expected date on which clearing will begin, the estimated
duration of exposure of cleared areas, areas of clearing, installation of
temporary erosion and sediment control measures and establishment of permanent
vegetation;
      (3)   All erosion and sediment control measures necessary to meet the
objectives of this local regulation throughout all phases of construction and
after completion of development of the site. Depending upon the complexity of
the project, the drafting of intermediate plans may be required at the close of
each season;
      (4)   Seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seedbed
preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and fertilizer
application, and kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and permanent
vegetative control measures; and
      (5)   Provisions for maintenance of control facilities, including
easements and estimates of the cost of maintenance.
   (B)   Modifications to the plan shall be processed and approved or
disapproved in the same manner as §
155.04 of this chapter, may be authorized by the city’s Water Service by
written authorization to the permittee and shall include:
      (1)   Major amendments of the erosion and sediment control plan submitted
to the city’s Water Service; and
      (2)   Field modifications of a minor nature.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 155.06 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Grading, erosion control practices, sediment control practices and
waterway crossings shall be adequate to prevent transportation of sediment from
the site to the satisfaction of the city’s Water Service. Cut and fill slopes
shall be no greater than 2:1, except as approved by the city’s Water Service to
meet other community or environmental objectives.
   (B)   Clearing and grading of natural resources, such as forests and
wetlands, shall not be permitted, except when in compliance with all other
chapters of this code. Clearing techniques that retain natural vegetation and
drainage patterns and shall be used to the satisfaction of the city’s Water
Service.
   (C)   Clearing, except that necessary to establish sediment control devices,
shall not begin until all sediment control devices have been installed and have
been stabilized.
   (D)   Phasing shall be required on all sites disturbing greater than 30
acres, with the size of each phase to be established at plan review and as
approved by the city’s Water Service.
   (E)   Erosion control requirements shall include the following.
      (1)   Soil stabilization shall be completed within five days of clearing
or inactivity in construction.
      (2)   If seeding or another vegetative erosion control method is used, it
shall become established within two weeks or the city’s Water Service may
require the site to be reseeded or a non-vegetative option employed.
      (3)   Special techniques approved by the city’s Water Service on steep
slopes or in drainage ways shall be used to ensure stabilization.
      (4)   Soil stockpiles must be stabilized using approved BMP techniques or
covered at the end of each workday.
      (5)   The entire site must be stabilized, using a heavy mulch layer or
another method that does not require germination to control erosion, at the
close of the construction.
      (6)   Techniques approved by the city’s Water Service shall be employed
to prevent the blowing of dust or sediment from the site.
      (7)   Techniques approved by the city’s Water Service that divert upland
runoff past disturbed slopes shall be employed.
   (F)   (1)   Sediment controls requirements shall include, but are not
limited to:
         (a)   Settling basins, sediment traps or tanks and perimeter controls;
         (b)   Settling basins that are designed in a manner that allows
adaptation to provide long-term storm water management, if required by the
city’s Water Service; and
         (c)   Protection for adjacent properties by the use of a vegetated
buffer strip in combination with perimeter controls.
      (2)   All sediment control techniques shall be approved by the city’s
Water Service.
   (G)   (1)   Waterway and watercourse protection requirements shall include,
but are not limited to, a temporary stream crossing installed and approved by
the city’s Water Service if a wet watercourse will be crossed regularly during
construction:
         (a)   Stabilization of the watercourse channel before, during and
after any in-channel work;
         (b)   All on-site storm water conveyance channels shall be designed as
approved by the city’s Water Service; and
         (c)   Stabilization adequate to prevent erosion located at the outlets
of all pipes and paved channels.
      (2)   All waterway and watercourse protection requirements shall be
approved by the city’s Water Service.
   (H)   (1)   Construction site access requirements shall include, but are not
limited to:
         (a)   A temporary access road provided at all sites; and
         (b)   Other measures required by the city’s Water Service in order to
ensure that sediment is not tracked onto public streets by construction
vehicles or washed into storm drain.
      (2)   All construction site access requirements shall be approved by the
city’s Water Service.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 155.07 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The city’s Water Service or designated agent shall make inspections as
hereinafter required and either shall approve that portion of the work
completed or shall notify the permittee wherein the work fails to comply with
the Erosion and Sediment Control Plan as approved. Plans for grading,
stripping, excavating and filling work bearing the stamp of approval of the
city’s Water Service shall be maintained at the site during the progress of the
work. To obtain inspections, the permittee shall notify the city’s Water
Service at least two working days before the following:
      (1)   Start of construction;
      (2)   Installation of sediment and erosion measures;
      (3)   Completion of site clearing;
      (4)   Completion of rough grading;
      (5)   Completion of final grading;
      (6)   Close of the construction; and
      (7)   Completion of final landscaping.
   (B)   The permittee or his or her agent shall make regular inspections of
all control measures in accordance with the inspection schedule outlined on the
approved Erosion and Sediment Control Plan(s). The purpose of such inspections
will be to determine the overall effectiveness of the control plan and the need
for additional control measures. All inspections shall be documented in written
form and submitted to the city’s Water Service at the time interval specified
in the approved permit.
   (C)   The city’s Water Service or its designated agent shall enter the
property of the applicant as deemed necessary to make regular inspections to
ensure the validity of the reports filed under division (B) above.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 155.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Stop work order; revocation of permit. In the event that any person
holding a site development permit pursuant to this chapter violates the terms
of the permit or implements site development in such a manner as to materially
adversely affect the health, welfare or safety of persons residing or working
in the neighborhood or development site so as to be materially detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the
neighborhood, the city’s Water Service may suspend or revoke the site
development permit.
   (B)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the city’s Water Service finds that a person or entity has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the
city’s Water Service may order compliance by written notice of violation to the
responsible person. Such notice may require without limitation:
         (a)   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
         (b)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (c)   Violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease and
desist;
         (d)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         (e)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
         (f)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      (2)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
   (C)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of
violation may appeal the determination of the authorized enforcement agency.
The notice of appeal must be received within ten days from the date of the
notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority or
his or her designee shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt of
the notice of appeal. The decision of the municipal authority or their designee
shall be final.
   (D)   Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation or,
in the event of an appeal, within ten days of the decision of the municipal
authority upholding the decision of the authorized enforcement agency, then
representatives of the authorized enforcement agency shall enter upon the
subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures
necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be
unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises
to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon
the premises for the purposes set forth above.
   (E)   Cost of abatement of the violation.
      (1)   Within ten days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within ten days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely
manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by the
expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a
special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city by reason of such violation. The liability shall be
paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the rate of 10% per annum
shall be assessed on the balance beginning on the first day following discovery
of the violation.
   (F)   Injunctive relief. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a
person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the
city’s Water Service may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
   (G)   Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties and
remedies authorized by this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may
impose upon a violator alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain
stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup and the like.
   (H)   Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement
processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is a threat to public
health, safety and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be
summarily abated or restored at the violator’s expense, and/or a civil action
to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be
taken.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.09 SEPARABILITY.
   The provisions and sections of this chapter shall be deemed to be separable,
and the invalidity of any portion of this chapter shall not affect the validity
of the remainder.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair or maintain any
grading, excavation or fill, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in
violation of any terms of this chapter. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and each day
during which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
committed, continued or permitted shall constitute a separate offense. Upon
conviction of any such violation, such person, partnership or corporation shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $100 for each offense. In addition to
any other penalty authorized by this section, any person, partnership or
corporation convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be required to bear the expense of such restoration.
      (2)   Any person that has violated or continues to violate this chapter
shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and
shall be subject to a criminal penalty and/or imprisonment for a period of time
not to exceed ten days. The city’s Water Service may recover all attorneys’
fees court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this
chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
   (B)   Remedies no exclusive. The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the city’s Water Service to
seek cumulative remedies.
   (C)   Fines and policy. The city’s Water Service is authorized to develop a
schedule of fines and to develop policy from time to time to assure the
requirements of §
155.01 of this chapter are met. The schedule of fines shall adhere to all
applicable local, state and federal laws. The policy shall include, but will
not be limited to, development of a comprehensive TPDES enforcement program,
staff training requirements, development of job descriptions, assignment of
fines to specific violations, budget requirements and job assignments.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2010)
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
156.01   Definition
   
156.02   Submission of plats
   
156.03   Time for filing and copies required
   
156.04   Filing fees
   
156.05   Form and content of plats
   
156.06   Processing of final plat
   
156.07   Standards and specifications
   
156.08   Street signs, permanent survey reference monuments and lot markers
   
156.09   Utilities
   
156.10   Special provisions
   
156.11   Variances
§ 156.01 DEFINITION.
   The term SUBDIVISION means the division of a parcel of land into two or more
lots or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building
development; provided that, a division of land for agricultural purposes into
lots or parcels of five acres or more and not involving a new street or alley
shall not be deemed a SUBDIVISION. The term includes resubdivision and, when
appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to
the land subdivided.
(2004 Code, § 7-101) (Ord. 83-10, passed 12-22-1983; Ord. 82-9, passed 8-24-
1982; Ord. 2003-12, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 156.02 SUBMISSION OF PLATS.
   (A)   (1)   All persons desiring to subdivide or resubdivide a tract of land
within the city or within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city should
procure from the city a copy of the rules regulating the subdividing of
property. The subdivider shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat by a
surveyor or engineer.
      (2)   The preliminary plat and other data should then be filed with the
city for submission to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its approval. No
improvements should be begun, nor any contracts made, until this approval has
been given.
      (3)   When the preliminary plat has been approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, operations may be started in accordance therewith and final
revision of said plat can be completed and submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for further approval. The approval of the preliminary plat does not
constitute an acceptance of the subdivision.
(2004 Code, § 7-102)
   (B)   The final plat may be filed at the same time as the preliminary plat
or at a later date. If the final plat is a portion of a larger tract owned by
the applicant, a preliminary plat must be filed on the entire tract.
(2004 Code, § 7-103)
(Ord. 83-10, passed 12-22-1983; Ord. 82-9, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 2003-12,
passed 10-20-2003)
§ 156.03 TIME FOR FILING AND COPIES REQUIRED.
   The subdivider shall file with the Planning and Zoning Commission 13 blue or
black line copies of the plat together with the original and an application on
a form specified by the city at least 15 days prior to the date at which formal
application for the preliminary plat approval is made to the Planning and
Zoning Commission at its regular meeting.
(2004 Code, § 7-104) (Ord. 83-10, passed 12-22-1983; Ord. 82-9, passed 8-24-
1982; Ord. 2003-12, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 156.04 FILING FEES.
   Such plat shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $10.
(2004 Code, § 7-105) (Ord. 83-10, passed 12-22-1983; Ord. 82-9, passed 8-24-
1982; Ord. 2003-12, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 156.05 FORM AND CONTENT OF PLATS.
   (A)   The plat shall be drawn to a scale of not less than 100 feet to one
inch and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not have the same
spelling as or be pronounced similar to the name of any other subdivision
within the city or within its extraterritorial jurisdiction;
      (2)   Names of contiguous subdivisions and an indication of whether or
not contiguous properties are platted;
      (3)   Subdivision boundary lines, indicated by heavy lines and the
computed acreage of the subdivision;
      (4)   Existing sites as follows:
         (a)   The exact location, dimensions, name and description of all
existing or recorded streets, alleys, reservations, easements or other public
rights-of-way within the subdivision, intersecting or contiguous with its
boundaries or forming such boundaries;
         (b)   The exact location, dimensions, description and name of all
existing or residential lots, parks, public areas, permanent structures,
existing watercourses, irrigation canals, drainage structures and other sites
within or contiguous with the subdivision; and
         (c)   Regulatory flood elevations and boundaries of flood-prone areas,
including floodways, if known.
      (5)   The exact location, dimensions, description and name of all
proposed streets, alleys, parks, other public areas, reservations, easements or
other rights-of-way, blocks, lots and other sites within the subdivision;
      (6)   Date of preparation, scale of plat and north arrow;
      (7)   Topographical information shall include high and low elevations
within the subdivision and the elevation of all corners of the subdivision;
      (8)   A number or letter to identify each lot or site and each block;
      (9)   Location of city limits line, the outer border of the city’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction, and zoning district boundaries, if they traverse
the subdivision, form part of the boundary of the subdivision or are contiguous
to such boundary; and
      (10)   Along with the preliminary plat, the following shall be submitted:
         (a)   Letters from the various utilities that service is available and
can be provided to the site;
         (b)   Preliminary plans for the drainage system showing the location
of the discharge; and
         (c)   Proposed fills or other structure elevating techniques, levels,
channel modifications, seawalls and other methods to overcome flood or erosion
related hazards.
(2004 Code, § 7-106)
   (B)   (1)   The final plat and accompanying data shall substantially conform
to the preliminary plat as conditionally approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, incorporating any and all changes, modifications, alterations,
corrections and conditions imposed by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (2)   (a)   The final plat shall be drawn in India ink on linen or Mylar
sheets 30 inches by 20 inches and one-inch margins on the binding side of the
sheet, and margins of not less than two inches on the other three sides.
         (b)   The plat shall be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch or
greater.
         (c)   Where more than one sheet is necessary to accommodate the entire
area, an index sheet showing the entire subdivision at an appropriate scale
must be attached to the plat.
      (3)   Ten copies of the final plat shall be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Commission, and shall contain all of the features required for
preliminary plats in division (A) above, and it shall be accompanied by site
improvement data bearing the seal of an engineer and detailed cost estimates
shall be submitted to the Director of Public Works.
      (4)   In addition to the various requirements for the preliminary plat,
the final plat shall also include the following:
         (a)   Names of the subdivider, record owner, engineer and/or surveyor;
and
         (b)   Primary control points or descriptions, and ties to such control
points to which all dimensions, angles, bearings, block numbers closure data
and area as may be required by the Director of Public Works shall be rendered.
      (5)   (a)   The final plat shall also include the following:
            1.   Owner’s acknowledgment of the dedication to public use of all
streets, alleys, parks and other public places shown on such final plat;
            2.   The certification of the surveyor and/or engineer responsible
for surveying the subdivision area, attesting to its accuracy; and for the
preparation of the final plat and supporting data, attesting to its accuracy;
and
            3.   A blank statement from the Planning and Zoning Commission and
City Council that the final plat has been approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the City Council; to be executed upon final approval.
         (b)   Along with the final plat, the applicant shall submit in writing
statements from the various utilities that they have reviewed the subdivision,
that they can provide service and are prepared to do so when requested by the
subdivider.
         (c)   Before it is recorded, a certificate shall accompany the record
plat showing that all taxes payable shall have been previously paid in full.
         (d)   The subdivider shall submit with the final or record plat the
opinion of an attorney, licensed to practice law in the state, showing good
recorded liens and encumbrances affecting the title to said land as of the date
of submission of the record plat for approval. If any liens appear of record,
the subordination of such liens to the plat and dedications contained therein
shall be secured by the subdivider prior to final approval.
(2004 Code, § 7-107)
(Ord. 83-10, passed 12-22-1983; Ord. 82-9, passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 2003-12,
passed 10-20-2003)
§ 156.06 PROCESSING OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   If desired by the subdivider and approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the final plat may constitute only that portion of the approved
preliminary plat which he or she proposed to record and develop. However, such
portion shall conform to all the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   As soon as practical after the subdivider is notified of the approval
of the preliminary plat, his or her engineer shall submit to the Planning and
Zoning Commission the final plat of the subdivision or portion thereof.
   (C)   No final plat will be considered unless a preliminary plat has been
submitted. If an approved plat has been duly recorded and the subdivider wishes
to increase the size or the lots by combining two or more lots or by combining
one lot with a portion of the adjacent lot in such manner that no portion of a
lot remains smaller than the original lots, no preliminary replat will be
necessary.
   (D)   When the final plat is filed with the Planning and Zoning Commission
for approval, it shall be accompanied by the following fees: $25 per plat. A
check or checks shall be payable to the County Clerk in the amount of the
recording fee for the final plat.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the final plat is formally filed, the Planning
and Zoning Commission shall approve or disapprove such plat.
   (F)   When filed with the city for recording, the final plat shall be
accompanied by the following site improvement data. All plans and engineering
calculations shall bear the seal and signature of a registered engineer. Three
copies of the following along with cost estimates, shall be filed with the
city:
      (1)   Plans and profiles of all streets, alleys, sidewalks and monuments;
and
      (2)   Construction plans showing the following:
         (a)   Sanitary sewers. The location and dimensions of existing and
proposed sanitary sewer lines, indicating the depth and grades of the lines.
When a separate sewer system or treatment plant is proposed, the point of
discharge or disposal area, along with the plans and specifications of the
treatment plant shall also be submitted;
         (b)   Water lines. The locations, profile and size of existing and
proposed water lines and fire hydrants, showing the depth and grade of the
lines; and
         (c)   Storm drainage. All street widths and grades with elevations
shall be indicated on the plat. Runoff figures shall be indicated on the outlet
and inlet side of all drainage ditches and storm sewers, and at all points in
the street at changes of grade or where the water enters another street or
storm sewer or drainage ditch. Drainage easements shall be indicated as
follows:
            1.   A general location map of the subdivision showing the drainage
area of any existing or proposed drainage facilities;
            2.   Calculations showing the anticipated storm water flow,
utilizing a rainfall frequency of not less than five years including watershed
area, percent runoff and time of concentration. When a drainage ditch or storm
sewer is proposed, calculations shall be submitted showing basis for design;
and
            3.   When a drainage channel or storm sewer is proposed, complete
plans, profiles and specifications shall be submitted, showing complete
construction details.
   (G)   After the final plat has been approved and the subdivider has
constructed all the required improvements, and such improvements have been
accepted, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall cause the final plat to be
recorded with the County Clerk or clerks in the county or counties in which the
subdivision lies. They shall also cause the check or checks for the recording
fee or fees deposited at the time the final plat was filed for approval to be
delivered with the final plat to the County Clerk.
(2004 Code, § 7-108) (Ord. 83-10, passed 12-22-1983; Ord. 82-9, passed 8-24-
1982; Ord. 2003-12, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 156.07 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   No preliminary or final plat shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, and no completed plat shall be accepted unless it conforms to the
following standards and specifications.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Conformity with Comprehensive Plan. The subdivision shall conform
to the current Comprehensive Plan of the city, a defined herein and as defined
in
Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances, which is incorporated herein, as adopted or
amended by the City Council.
      (2)   Reserve strips prohibited. There shall be no reserve strips
controlling access to land dedicated or intended to be dedicated to public use.
      (3)   Subdivision names. Names of new subdivisions shall not duplicate,
nor cause confusion with the names of existing subdivisions, unless they are
continuations or subsequent units of a prior platted subdivision.
   (B)   Streets, alleys and curbs.
      (1)   The arrangement of streets in a new subdivision shall make
provisions for the continuation of the principal existing streets in adjoining
areas of their extension; where adjoining property is not subdivided, insofar
as they may be necessary for public requirements. In general such streets shall
be a width at least as great as the existing streets, and in no case shall they
be less than the minimum required below. The street and alley arrangements must
be such as to provide opportunity for access and use by adjoining property
owners. Dead ends or offsets in streets will not be approved unless
unavoidable. Streets that are continuous shall bear the same name throughout.
They must not duplicate or be similar to the recognized name of any other
street located elsewhere in the area subject to the approval of the City
Council.
      (2)   The width for major streets shall conform to the widths assigned to
such major streets by action of the City Council. In no case shall major
streets be less than 80 feet in width. A building line safeguarding future
widening may be required by the City Council in lieu of dedication of the
indicated width.
      (3)   Residential streets (streets serving primarily residential areas)
shall be laid out so as to discourage their use by through traffic. The minimum
width for residential streets shall be 60 feet unless the land use density
dictates the need for wider rights-of-way and paving as determined by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (4)   The minimum width of any alley shall be 20 feet, and alleys shall
be provided in all subdivisions where possible.
      (5)   Where alleys cannot be provided, easements not less than five feet
in width shall be provided on each side of all rear lots lines and side lines,
where necessary, for poles, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas and
water mains. Easements of greater width may be required along lines or across
lots where necessary for the extension of main sewers and similar utilities.
      (6)   Curbs shall be installed by the subdivider on both sides of all
interior streets, and or the subdivision side of all streets forming part of
the boundary of the development.
   (C)   Lots.
      (1)   In all rectangular lots, and so far as possible, all other lots,
the side lines shall be at right angles to the street on which the lot faces.
      (2)   Each lot shall front upon a public street.
      (3)   Lot sizes, setback lines and yards shall be in accordance with
Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances and, unless otherwise approved by the
Council for particular and appropriate reasons, the minimum dimensions for lots
for single-family dwellings shall be 80 feet for width and 100 feet for depth.
      (4)   Building lines shall be shown on all lots intended for residential
use or for neighborhood store development and, if within city limits, shall be
not less than minimum requirements of
Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances.
(2004 Code, § 7-109) (Ord. 83-10, passed 12-22-1983; Ord. 82-9, passed 8-24-
1982; Ord. 2003-12, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 156.08 STREET SIGNS, PERMANENT SURVEY REFERENCE MONUMENTS AND LOT MARKERS.
   (A)   Street name signs shall be installed by the city at the expense of the
subdivider at all intersections within or abutting the subdivision. Such signs
shall be of a type approved by the city, and shall be installed in accordance
with the standards of the city.
   (B)   The description and location of permanent survey reference monuments
shall be shown. These shall be other than and in addition to, markers set for
block or lot corners. They shall be of concrete and, wherever practical, they
shall be set so that the top of the monuments will be not less than 12 inches
below the ground surface after contemplated improvements are completed.
   (C)   Lot markers shall be metal, concrete or other reasonably permanent
material and shall be placed flush with the ground, or countersunk, if
necessary, in order to avoid being disturbed.
(2004 Code, § 7-110) (Ord. 83-10, passed 12-22-1983; Ord. 82-9, passed 8-24-
1982; Ord. 2003-12, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 156.09 UTILITIES.
   All utilities shall be installed underground.
(2004 Code, § 7-111) (Ord. 83-10, passed 12-22-1983; Ord. 82-9, passed 8-24-
1982; Ord. 2003-12, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 156.10 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any owner of any tract of land within the corporate limits of the
city, or its extraterritorial limits who wishes to accomplish a subdivision
shall comply with this chapter and submit same to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for its approval; and the final approval and acceptance by the City
Council.
   (B)   No building, repair, plumbing or electrical permit shall be issued by
the city for any structure on a lot in a subdivision for which a final plat has
not been approved and filed for record, nor for any structure on a lot within a
subdivision in which the standards contained herein have not been complied with
in full. No such permit shall be issued until all public improvements/utilities
have been installed and accepted by the city or, where appropriate, the
governing utility, provided however, if the final plat has been approved and
recorded, a building permit may be issued prior to final installation of public
improvements and utilities. However, no certificate of occupancy shall be
issued until all public improvements have been installed and accepted by the
various agencies involved.
   (C)   The city shall not repair, maintain, install or provide any streets or
public utility services in any subdivision for which a final plat has not been
approved and filed for record, nor in which the standards contained or referred
to herein have not been complied with in full, except as provided for in
division (B) above.
   (D)   The city, or any other utility, shall not sell or supply any water,
gas, electricity or sewage service within a subdivision for which a final plat
has not been approved and filed of record, nor in which the standards contained
or referred to herein have not been complied with in full, except as provided
for division (B) above.
   (E)   In behalf of the city, the City Attorney shall, when directed by the
City Council, institute appropriate action in a court of competent
jurisdiction, by injunction or otherwise, to enforce the provisions of this
chapter or the standards referred to herein with respect to any violation
thereof which occurs within the city, within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city, or within any area subject to all or part of the provisions of
this chapter.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
issuance of permits for any lots upon which a residence building exists and was
in existence prior to passage of the subdivision ordinance, nor to prohibit the
repair, maintenance, or installation of any street or public utility services
for, to or abutting any lot, the last recorded conveyance of which prior to
passage of this chapter was by metes and bounds, and/or any subdivision, or lot
therein, recorded or unrecorded, which subdivision was in existence prior to
the passage of this chapter.
   (G)   For subdivisions within the city limits, no final plat shall be
approved until the property is zoned in accordance with
Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances for the uses intended.
(2004 Code, § 7-112) (Ord. 83-10, passed 12-22-1983; Ord. 82-9, passed 8-24-
1982; Ord. 2003-12, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 156.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend to the City Council a
variance from these regulations when, in its opinion, undue hardship will
result from requiring strict compliance. Any variances requested must be
submitted in writing by separate instrument at the time the preliminary plat is
filed with the Planning and Zoning Commission. In recommending a variance, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall prescribe only conditions that it deems
necessary to or desirable in the public interest. In making the finding
hereinbelow required, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall take into
account the nature of the proposed use of the land involved, existing uses of
land in the vicinity, the number of persons who will reside or work in the
proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of such variance upon traffic
conditions and upon the public health, safety, convenience and welfare in the
vicinity.
   (B)   No variance shall be recommended unless the Planning and Zoning
Commission finds:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the land
involved such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the applicant; and
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not have the effect of preventing
the orderly subdivision of other land in the area in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. Such findings by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, together with the specific facts upon which such findings are
based, shall be set out in writing by the Planning and Zoning Commission at the
meeting at which such variance is recommended. Variances may be recommended
only when in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this chapter so
that the public health, safety and welfare may be secured and substantial
justice done. Pecuniary hardship to the subdivider, standing alone, shall not
be deemed to constitute undue hardship.
(2004 Code, § 7-113) (Ord. 83-10, passed 12-22-1983; Ord. 82-9, passed 8-24-
1982; Ord. 2003-12, passed 10-20-2003)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Definitions
   
157.002   Changes and amendments
   
157.003   Districts
   
157.004   Zoning Map
   
157.005   Restrictions on buildings and land
   
157.006   Regulations and rules applicable to all districts
“A” Recreational District
   
157.020   Use regulations
   
157.021   Temporary buildings prohibited
   
157.022   El Camino Real Esplanade
   
157.023   Animals
   
157.024   Parking regulations
   
157.025   Sanitation
   
157.026   Area and height regulations
“B” Single-Family Dwelling District
   
157.040   Use regulations
   
157.041   Temporary buildings
   
157.042   Animals
   
157.043   Definition
   
157.044   Parking regulations
   
157.045   Sanitation
   
157.046   Area and height regulations
“C” Townhouses and Condominiums District
   
157.060   Use regulations
   
157.061   Temporary buildings
   
157.062   Animals
   
157.063   Parking regulations
   
157.064   Sanitation
   
157.065   Area and height restrictions
“D” Club District
   
157.080   Use regulations
   
157.081   Temporary buildings
   
157.082   Animals
   
157.083   Parking regulations
   
157.084   Sanitation
   
157.085   Area and height regulations
“E” Retail District
   
157.100   General description
   
157.101   Uses permitted
   
157.102   Temporary buildings
   
157.103   Area regulations
   
157.104   Building regulations
   
157.105   Screening
   
157.106   Site landscaping
   
157.107   Animals
   
157.108   Parking regulations
   
157.109   Sanitation
   
157.110   Area and height regulations
   
157.111   Permits
“F” Utility District
   
157.125   Use regulations
   
157.126   Temporary buildings
   
157.127   Animals
   
157.128   Height
Non-Conforming Uses
   
157.140   Non-conforming uses
   
157.141   Continuation of non-conforming uses
Zoning Map Designations
   
157.155   District boundaries
   
157.156   Variance in street layouts and Zoning Map
   
157.157   Metes and bounds description of “A” Recreational District
Certificate of Occupancy and Compliance
   
157.170   Requirement of building permit
   
157.171   Certificate of occupancy
   
157.172   Permit for excavation
   
157.173   Requirement of architect or engineer
Zoning Commission
   
157.185   Appointment, number, terms, removal and qualifications
   
157.186   Vacancies
   
157.187   Compensation and holding other municipal office
   
157.188   Officers
   
157.189   Rules, records and meetings
   
157.190   Functions of Commission
   
157.191   Recommendation of Commission required
   
157.192   Submission of plans, plats and re-plats
   
157.193   Appointment of employees
   
157.194   Periodic reports
Board of Adjustment
   
157.205   Appointment, number and terms
   
157.206   Vacancies
   
157.207   Powers
   
157.208   Rules and meetings
   
157.209   Appeals to Board
   
157.210   Stay of proceedings
   
157.211   Time and notice of appeal
 
   
157.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future, words in singular
number include the plural number, and words in the plural number include the
singular; the word BUILDING includes the word STRUCTURE; the word LOT includes
the word PLOT; the word SHALL is mandatory and not directory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY. A subordinate use or building customarily incident to and
located on the lot occupied by the main use or building and must be attached to
the main building.
      ALLEY. A public thoroughfare not over 20 feet in width.
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in an apartment house or tenement
arranged, designed or occupied as the residence of a single family, individual
or group of individuals.
      CONDOMINIUM. A dwelling unit.
      CONDOMINIUM BUILDING. A group of condominiums in one building.
      CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS. Occupations ordinarily carried on in a home
that are not detrimental or injurious to adjoining property. These may include
dressmaking, millinery, washing and ironing. CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS shall
not include barbershop, flower shops, carpenter shops, electrician shops.
plumbers shops, radio shops, tinners shops, transfer or moving van offices,
auto repairing or sign painting.
      DEPTH OF REAR YARD. The main horizontal distance between the rear line of
a building other than an accessory building and the centerline of the alley
where an alley exists, otherwise the rear lot line.
      DEPTH OF LOT. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
      DISTRICT. A section of the city for which the regulations governing the
areas, heights or use of buildings are uniform.
      FAMILY. A family is one or more persons living together as a single
housekeeping unit, in which not more than two individuals are unrelated by
blood, marriage or adoption.
      FRONT YARD. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building,
said space lying between the font line of the building and the street line of
the lot.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. A garage with capacity of not more than three motor
driven vehicles, for storage only, for private use and in which not more than
one space shall be rented to persons not occupants of the premises. Of the
vehicles allowed as accessory to a dwelling, not more than one shall be a
commercial motor driven vehicle. In a dwelling district, a PRIVATE GARAGE may
exceed a three-vehicle capacity; provided, the area of the lot whereon such
private garage is located contains not less than 2,500 square feet for each
vehicle stored. In an apartment district, a PRIVATE GARAGE may exceed a three-
vehicle capacity; provided, the area of the lot whereon such private garage is
located shall contain not less than 1,000 square feet for each vehicle stored.
      GROSS FLOOR AREA. The gross floor area of an apartment house shall be
measured by taking outside dimensions of the apartment building at each floor
level excluding, however, the floor area of basements or attics not used for
resident purposes.
      HEIGHT. The height of a building or portion of a building shall be
measured from the average established grade at the street lot line or from the
average natural ground level if higher or if no street grade has been
established, to the highest point of the roof’s surface if a flat surface; to
the deck line of mansard roofs; and to the mean height level between eaves and
ridge for hip or gable roofs. In measuring the HEIGHT of a building the
following structures shall be excluded: chimneys.
      LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, and including such open spaces as are required under this chapter,
having its principal frontage upon a public street or officially approved
place.
         (a)   FRACTIONAL. A portion of a lot that has been cut off of a corner
lot, having the side line of an adjacent lot as its rear line and the rear line
of the remainder of the corner lot as a side line.
         (b)   FRONT LINE. The line of an interior lot which is adjacent to the
street. On corner lots, it is the prolongations of the front line of adjacent
interior lots as originally platted.
         (c)   INTERIOR. A lot other than corner lot.
         (d)   THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel, or approximately
parallel, streets.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of two or more streets.
      LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. A building or premises occupied by a use that does
not conform to the regulations of the use district in which it is situated.
      OPEN SPACE. Any unoccupied space on the lot that is open and unobstructed
to the sky and occupied by no buildings whatever.
      PERSONS. When used in this chapter, shall, for the purpose of this
chapter, mean every person, firm, co-partnership, associations, partnership,
corporation or society; and the term PERSON shall include both singular and
plural and masculine shall embrace the feminine gender.
      PLACE. An open unoccupied space reserved for purposes of access to
abutting property.
      PUBLIC USE BUILDING. A building which the public frequents, but which is
not a condominium, townhouse or other single-family dwelling.
      REAR YARD. A space unoccupied, except by a building of accessory use as
hereinbefore permitted, extending the full width of the lot between the
building other than a building of accessory use and the rear lot line. Where
there is an alley, the depth of the REAR YARD may be considered to extend to
the centerline of the alley.
      SIDE YARD. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building to be
situated between the building and the side line of the lot and extending
through from the street or from the front yard to the rear yard or to the rear
line of the lot. Any lot line not a rear line or a front line shall be deemed
to be a side line.
      SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A detached building having accommodations for and
occupied by only one single family.
      STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor next above it; or if there be no floor above
it, then the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it.
      STORY, HALF. A story having an average height of not more than eight feet
covering a floor area of not more than 50% of the area of the floor on the
first story below.
      STREET. Any public thoroughfare dedicated to the public or use of
property owner within the town.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or which is attached to something having location on the
ground.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
      TOWNHOUSE. A townhouse is a - dwelling unit constructed in a series or
group of attached units with property lines separating such units.
      WIDTH OF SIDE YARD. The mean horizontal distance between a side wall of a
building and the side line of the lot or to the centerline of any alley
adjacent to such side lot line.
(2004 Code, § 9-1501) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-4, passed 8-17-
1999)
§ 157.002 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may from time to time amend, supplement or change by order
the boundaries of the districts or the regulations herein in the manner
provided by law.
(2004 Code, § 9-1601) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-4, passed 8-17-
1999)
§ 157.003 DISTRICTS.
   The city is divided into six types of districts. These districts are: “A”
Recreational District; “B” Single-Family Dwelling District; “C” Townhouses and
Condominiums District; “D” Club District; “E” Retail District; and “F” Utility
District.
(2004 Code, § 9-101) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.004 ZONING MAP.
   All of the districts are fully shown upon the Zoning Map of the city which
is located in the office of the City Secretary. Said Zoning Map has been
divided into various districts and shaded in various colors to delineate the
various districts. All districts, areas, notations, references and other
information shown upon said Zoning Map are hereby made a part of this code and
shall be considered as much a part of same as if said matters and information
set forth by said Zoning Map were all fully described herein.
(2004 Code, § 9-102) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.005 RESTRICTIONS ON BUILDINGS AND LAND.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no building shall be erected or structurally
altered and no land shall be used, except in conformity with the regulations
herein prescribed for the use and area district in which such building or land
is located and shown by the Zoning Map.
(2004 Code, § 9-103)
§ 157.006 REGULATIONS AND RULES APPLICABLE TO ALL DISTRICTS.
   All improvements of any kind to be erected within the city shall conform and
be in strict compliance with all applicable zoning rules, regulations and
requirements as further set out in this chapter.
(2004 Code, § 9-201) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-4, passed 8-17-
1999; Ord. 2004-6, passed 8-18-2004)
“A” RECREATIONAL DISTRICT
§ 157.020 USE REGULATIONS.
   In an “A” Recreational District, no land, building or premises shall be used
and no building shall be erected or structurally altered which is arranged or
designed to be used for other than one or more of the following uses: the
recreational district may be used for the purpose of operating and maintaining
golf courses, swimming facilities, tennis courts, open green areas to serve for
open recreational activities and any other type and form of outdoor
recreational activity which does not require structures as an integral part of
the activity. Structures may be placed within the recreational district that
are a direct and integral use of the primary activity (i.e., restrooms and rest
areas that may be a direct support facility to recreational activity).
(2004 Code, § 9-301) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.021 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   Temporary buildings are prohibited within the recreational district, except
those that are used temporarily for the purpose of constructing and/or
improving the recreational areas and shall be removed upon completion or
abandonment of construction work within the “A” Recreational District.
(2004 Code, § 9-302) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.022 EL CAMINO REAL ESPLANADE.
   The esplanade which is located between the two one-way streets know as El
Camino Real, between Stuart Place Road and Palm Valley Drive West, shall
continue to be used as an esplanade, and no structures or manufacture of any
kind shall be permitted on said esplanade.
(2004 Code, § 9-303) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.023 ANIMALS.
   No horses, cows, poultry or livestock of any kind (except for water fowl on
the lakes) may be kept in the “A” Recreational District.
(2004 Code, § 9-304) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.024 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   Parking facilities may be provided within the recreational areas when said
parking facilities are for the use and designed primarily for the people
patronizing the recreational area.
(2004 Code, § 9-305) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.025 SANITATION.
   There shall be no sewerage disposal without water carriage.
(2004 Code, § 9-306) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.026 AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No structures shall be built in this area that are located within 200
feet of any boundary of a “B” Single-Family Dwelling District or “C” Townhouses
and Condominiums District.
   (B)   No vertical structures or manufacture of any kind, temporary or
permanent, will be placed within 30 feet of an edge of a street, road, golf
course fairway or golf cart path, which structure has a vertical height of more
than two feet at any given point.
   (C)   No vertical structure or manufacture, permanent or temporary,
including overhangs or any obstruction that would prevent the through movement
of a safety vehicle nor poles, nor any other device, will be permitted within
five feet of a lot line.
   (D)   No vertical structure or manufacture, permanent or temporary,
including buildings, poles or other manufacture, will exceed 15 feet in height
or vertical distance from the ground level at any given point.
   (E)   No retaining wall shall be built adjacent to any water that exceeds a
height of two feet elevation above the normal water level of the particular
adjacent body.
   (F)   No docks, piers or other structure shall be built over water.
   (G)   No fence shall exceed six feet in height.
   (H)   No chain-link fence or fence constructed out of cinder block will be
permitted, and any cedar fence constructed with cedar boards shall be
constructed in such manner as to place the better finished side of the cedar
boards to the outside.
(2004 Code, § 9-307) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
“B” SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 157.040 USE REGULATIONS.
   In a “B” Single-Family Dwelling District, no land, building or premises
shall be used and no building shall be erected or structurally altered which is
arranged or designed to be used for other than one or more of the following
uses:
   (A)   Single-family dwelling;
   (B)   Accessory building and uses, including a private garage, bona fide
servants quarters, not for rent, when the accessory building is directly
attached to the main building; and
   (C)   Incidental uses. Uses customarily incident to any of the following
uses, when situated in the same dwelling and not involving the conduct of a
business, including customary home occupations when engaged in by the occupants
of the dwelling; including, but not limited to: dressmaker, the office of a
financial manager, musician or artist when used as his or her private dwelling.
Said incidental use, however, shall never be permitted as a principal use, but
only as a secondary use when indispensably necessary to the enjoyment of the
premises for any of the uses permitted by this section and actually made of the
premises, but not otherwise.
   (D)   The term SINGLE-FAMILY shall mean one or more persons living together
as a single housekeeping unit, in which not more than two individuals are
unrelated by blood, marriage or adoption.
(2004 Code, § 9-401) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 2004-6, passed 8-18-
2004)
§ 157.041 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   Temporary buildings may be used for construction purposes only and shall be
removed upon completion of construction work.
(2004 Code, § 9-402) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.042 ANIMALS.
   No horses, cows, poultry or livestock of any kind (other than house pets)
may be kept in the “B” Single-Family Dwelling District.
(2004 Code, § 9-403) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.043 DEFINITION.
   The term SINGLE FAMILY shall mean one or more persons living together as a
single housekeeping unit, in which not more than two individuals are unrelated
by blood, marriage or adoption.
(2004 Code, § 9-404) (Ord. 2004-6, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 157.044 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   At least two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for every single-
family dwelling.
(2004 Code, § 9-405) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.045 SANITATION.
   There shall be no sewerage disposal without water carriage.
(2004 Code, § 9-406) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.046 AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. There shall be front yard along the front line of the lot.
The minimum depth of such front yard shall be 30 feet from the property line.
   (B)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard along the rear line of the lot.
The minimum depth of such rear yard shall be seven feet from the property line.
   (C)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard along each line of the lot other
than the front line or a rear line. The minimum width of such side yard shall
be seven feet; except that, the minimum width of any side yard of a corner lot,
which side yard lies along the street, shall be 25 feet; provided that, if the
street side line of the corner lot is in the same block frontage with a lot or
lots whose street line is a front line of such lot or lots, the side yard shall
extend to the average alignment of the buildings along the same side of the
street, unless such buildings are more than 25 feet back from the street line,
in which case, the side yard shall be not less than 25 feet, or unless the lot
is in a platted subdivision and the building is planned in conformity with the
building set back lines pertaining to said subdivision, but in no case less
than 25 feet.
   (D)   Lot width. The minimum width of the lot shall be 80 feet for any use.
   (E)   Lot area. The minimum area of the lot shall be 8,000 square feet for
any use.
   (F)   Exception. An exception to divisions (A) through (E) above is hereby
made for Palm Valley Haciendas Unit Number 7 which is already platted and
restricted for hacienda units. The area restrictions in Palm Valley Haciendas
Unit Number 7 shall be those contained in the deed restrictions for said
property.
   (G)   Height. The height limit shall be two and one-half stories for a
dwelling and a maximum of 35 feet for any building.
   (H)   Edges. No vertical structure of any kind, temporary or permanent shall
be placed within 25 feet of the edge of the property line bordering a street or
road with the exception of mailboxes and flagpoles. On lots abutting the golf
course, no structure, as defined by §
150.001, Definitions, shall be constructed or placed nearer to the rear lot
line abutting the golf course than the building setback line contained in the
property's deed restrictions.
(2004 Code, § 9-407) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 2004-6, passed 8-16-
2004; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-19-2019) Penalty, see §
157.999
“C” TOWNHOUSES AND CONDOMINIUMS DISTRICT
§ 157.060 USE REGULATIONS.
   In a “C” Townhouses and Condominiums District, no land shall be used and no
buildings shall be erected for or converted to any use other than:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Condominiums and townhouses; and
   (C)   Incidental uses. Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses,
when situated in the same dwelling and not involving the conduct of a business,
including customary home occupations when engaged in by the occupants of the
dwelling; including, but not limited to: dressmaker, the office of a financial
manager, musician or artist when used and his or her private dwelling. Said
incidental use, however, shall never be permitted as a principal use, but only
as a secondary use when indispensably necessary to the enjoyment of the
premises for any of the uses permitted in this section and actually made of the
premises, but not otherwise.
(2004 Code, § 9-501) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.061 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   Temporary buildings may be used for construction purposes only and shall be
removed upon completion of construction work.
(2004 Code, § 9-502) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.062 ANIMALS.
   No horses, cows, poultry or livestock of any kind (except for house pets)
may be kept in the “C” Townhouses and Condominiums District.
(2004 Code, § 9-503) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.063 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a structure is erected or converted for a single-family
dwelling, at least two off-street parking spaces shall be provided on the lot
for such single-family dwelling.
   (B)   Condominiums and townhouses shall provide two off-street parking
spaces for each dwelling unit in the building or townhouse.
(2004 Code, § 9-504) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.064 SANITATION.
   There shall be no sewerage disposal without water carriage. Chemical toilets
may be erected on a temporary basis during construction only.
(2004 Code, § 9-505) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.065 AREA AND HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard along the front line of the
lot. The minimum depth of such front yard shall be ten feet from the property
line.
   (B)   Lot width.
      (1)   The minimum width of the lot shall be 80 feet for a single-family
dwelling.
      (2)   The minimum width of the lot shall be 22 feet for a townhouse or
condominium.
   (C)   Lot area.
      (1)   The minimum area of the lot shall be 8,000 square feet for a
single-family dwelling.
      (2)   The minimum area of the lot shall be 1,826 square feet for a
townhouse or condominium.
      (3)   No more than eight condominiums or townhouses shall be constructed
in one condominium building or townhouse building.
      (4)   There shall be a minimum seven-foot utility easement between
condominium buildings or townhouse buildings.
   (D)   Minimum area. The minimum area per townhouse of condominium unit shall
be 1,200 square feet.
   (E)   Height. The height limit shall be two and one-half stories for a
dwelling and a maximum 35 feet for any building.
   (F)   Fences. No fences shall be permitted in the “C” Townhouse and
Condominiums District.
   (G)   Masonry and the like. Every townhouse building and condominium
building shall be constructed in such a manner that at least 51% of its
exterior walls are of masonry or masonry veneer construction. Stucco will no
qualify as masonry unless placed on masonry.
(2004 Code, § 9-506) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
“D” CLUB DISTRICT
§ 157.080 USE REGULATIONS.
   In a “D” Club District, no land shall be used and no building shall be
erected or converted for any use other than county clubs and private clubs of
all nature, and said country club use may include the right to house other
businesses that are an integral part of the country club operation.
(2004 Code, § 9-601) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.081 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   Temporary buildings may be used for construction purposes only and shall be
removed upon completion of construction work.
(2004 Code, § 9-602) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.082 ANIMALS.
   No horses, cows, poultry or livestock of any kind may be kept in the “D”
Club District.
(2004 Code, § 9-603) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.083 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   Country clubs and private clubs shall provide off-street parking space in a
ratio of one space for each 100 square feet.
(2004 Code, § 9-604) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.084 SANITATION.
   There shall be no sewerage disposal without water carriage. Chemical toilets
may be erected on a temporary basis during construction only.
(2004 Code, § 9-605) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.085 AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The height limit shall be two and one-half stories for a dwelling and
a maximum 35 feet for any building.
   (B)   No vertical structures of any kind, temporary or permanent, shall be
placed within 30 feet of an edge of a property line.
   (C)   No vertical structure or manufacture, permanent or temporary,
including overhangs or any obstruction that would prevent the through movement
of a safety vehicle nor poles, nor any other device, will be permitted within
five feet of a lot line.
   (D)   No fence shall exceed six feet in height.
   (E)   No chain-link fence or fence constructed with cedar boards shall be
constructed in such a manner as to place the better finished side of the cedar
boards to the outside.
(2004 Code, § 9-606) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
“E” RETAIL DISTRICT
§ 157.100 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This Retail District is for the conduct of retail business and personal
offices and to meet the regular needs and for the convenience of the people of
adjacent residential areas. Because these shops, stores and offices may be an
integral part of the neighborhood closely associated with residential,
religious, recreational and educational uses, more restrictive requirements for
light, air, open space and off-street parking are made than are provided in
other types of land use classifications contained in this chapter.
(2004 Code, § 9-701) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-2, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 157.101 USES PERMITTED.
   In an “E” Retail District, no land shall be used or erected for any use
other than the uses identified below.
   (A)   Property and buildings in “E” Retail Districts shall be used for
retail stores, offices and shops and which must be a minimum 2,500 square feet
of gross floor area and no more than 10,000 square feet gross floor area and
which supply the regular and customary needs of the residents of the
neighborhood and which are primarily for their convenience.
   (B)   Name plates signs and signs relating only to the use of the
establishment and premises or to products sold shall be allowed. No portable
signs shall be allowed.
   (C)   No materials or goods offered for sale in connection with the allowed
uses shall be displayed or stored outside of a building. Service machines such
as those for ice, soft drinks and newspapers may be permanently displayed only
behind the front building line.
   (D)   Property shall not be used for rental residential uses.
   (E)   Types of retail uses contemplated are those such as the following:
      (1)   Retail store, barber and beauty shops;
      (2)   Gasoline service stations;
      (3)   Post office and other governmental buildings;
      (4)   Professional services such as accounting services, legal services,
medical services, dental services and nursing services;
      (5)   Stockbroker;
      (6)   Restaurant;
      (7)   Book and stationery store;
      (8)   Convenience store;
      (9)   Drug store;
      (10)   Florist shop;
      (11)   Ice cream parlor;
      (12)   Office/professional;
      (13)   Tailor;
      (14)   Gift and jewelry retail;
      (15)   Other retail and office use; and
      (16)   This list is not exhaustive, but is intended to provide guidance
as to the types of uses allowed.
(2004 Code, § 9-702) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-2, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.102 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   Temporary buildings may be used for construction purposes only and shall be
removed upon completion of construction work.
(2004 Code, § 9-703) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-2, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 157.103 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following requirements shall apply to all uses permitted in this
district.
   (A)   Front area.
      (1)   All buildings shall be located with the front building line 50 feet
from the street right-of-way line. All buildings shall be constructed on a
concrete slab. Metal buildings are not allowed. Metal awnings on front of
buildings are not allowed.
      (2)   No fences of any kind shall be allowed in the front setback area in
this district.
   (B)   Rear area. There shall be provided a passageway, service court, rear
area or combination thereof of not less than 25 feet from the rear lot line.
The property owner shall cover the rear 25 feet with a concrete or asphalt area
for a potential loading dock or trash pick up area.
   (C)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard setback of either zero feet
(wall at property line) or not less than ten feet to provide access for side
entrance or to the rear service area.
   (D)   Sound systems. No outside sound systems will be allowed at any
businesses.
(2004 Code, § 9-704) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-2, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.104 BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height.
   (B)   Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be constructed of masonry or
stucco or masonry on steel studs. Fronts to be of “finish” masonry or stucco.
(Concrete block is not “finished” masonry.) Stucco will not qualify as masonry
unless placed on masonry or steel studs.
   (C)   Width. No lot on the subject property shall be less than 75 feet wide.
   (D)   Firewall. Buildings with zero side lot lines shall have a four-rated
firewall between it and any adjoining lot or structure.
   (E)   Ground floor slab. Ground floor slab of all buildings shall be two
feet above the centerline of Stuart Place Road.
(2004 Code, § 9-705) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-2, passed 6-7-1999;
Ord. 99-10, passed 10-19-1999) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.105 SCREENING.
   (A)   Screening shall be provided along the rear and/or side property lines
of the retail area when the area backs up to and/or sides to a residential
district, or backs up to a public street.
   (B)   Such screening shall be eight-foot poured-in-place concrete or masonry
screening fence. Concrete block must be mortar plastered. Alternate fencing
materials and building methods shall be submitted to the Building and Permit
Committee and shall be judged on their stability and ability to be sound and
sight barriers. Plans shall be subject to the approval of the Building and
Permit Committee. Solid walls shall have proper drainage for the flow of ground
water.
(2004 Code, § 9-706) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-2, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.106 SITE LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Landscaped area is defined as the improving of land and placing
thereon live flowers, shrubs, trees or grasses, decorative fixtures such as
fountains, water treatments, sculptures, retaining walls, fences and specially
treated walkways. These features shall be treated as and go toward the
calculation of total landscaped area. Required sidewalks, driveways and access
sidewalks may not be included in the calculated landscaped area.
   (B)   (1)   Five percent of the front set back area shall be maintained in
landscaped open area in front of the building line.
      (2)   It is the intent of this section to require design and construction
of parking areas in a manner to ensure areas unusable for parking or
maneuvering space be landscaped.
   (C)   If all of the county or state right-of-way is landscaped and
maintained, such landscaped portion will reduce the amount of required
landscaped area of the lot by that amount (square foot for square foot).
   (D)   (1)   A landscape plan must be submitted as part of the required site
plan and shall be approved by the Building and Permit Committee before a
building permit shall be issued.
      (2)   The landscaping plan shall be approved based on its conformity and
compatibility with adjacent landscaping.
      (3)   The plan must be totally implemented, inspected and approved before
a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
      (4)   The landscape plan will be reviewed by the Building and Permit
Committee as part of the required site plan.
(2004 Code, § 9-707) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-2, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 157.107 ANIMALS.
   No horses, cows, poultry or livestock of any kind may be kept in the “E”
Retail District.
(2004 Code, § 9-708) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-2, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.108 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   All business structures shall provide parking spaces per the following
schedule:
   (A)   Beauty shops: one space for each 300 square feet of floor area;
   (B)   Clinics or doctors offices: one space for each 200 square feet of
floor area;
   (C)   Daycare: one space for each 400 square feet of floor area, plus
loading area requirements;
   (D)   Offices: one space for each 400 square feet of floor area;
   (E)   Restaurant: one space for every three seats under maximum seating
arrangement;
   (F)   Retail or personal service: one space for each 400 square feet of
floor area;
   (G)   Any unlisted non-residential use shall provide off-street parking
adequate to accommodate the normal parking demand generated by such use as
determined by the Building and Permit Committee;
   (H)   All uses must provide (and utilize) adequate off street parking for
business patrons as well as employees;
   (I)   The parking spaces and connecting driveways shall be of concrete or
asphalt surface to the standards set by the Building and Permit Committee;
   (J)   The number of points of access to the subject property from adjoining
roadways shall not be greater than one point of access for every lot allowed;
and
   (K)   Any lights used to illuminate the parking area shall be of the “low
profile” type and shall be so arranged so as to reflect away from any adjacent
residential use or residential district. All lighting will be approved by the
Building and Permit Committee based on its compatibility and conformity with
adjacent lighting.
(2004 Code, § 9-709) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-2, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 157.109 SANITATION.
   (A)   There shall be no sewerage disposal without water carriage. Chemical
toilets may be erected on a temporary basis during the construction only.
   (B)   All properties shall provide for trash disposal in proper containers
at the rear of buildings that is sanitary, shielded from the wind and out of
sight of the public. No trash containers shall be permitted at a place of
business other than at the rear of the building.
(2004 Code, § 9-710) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-2, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 157.110 AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   In an “E” Retail District, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   No fence shall exceed eight feet in height.
   (B)   No chain-link fence or fence will be permitted. A fence constructed
out of concrete block must be mortar plastered. Any cedar fence shall have
posts of concrete and constructed in such a manner as to place the better
finished side of the cedar boards to the outside.
(2004 Code, § 9-711) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-2, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.111 PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permits shall be obtained from the city.
   (B)   All building plans shall be approved by the Building and Permit
Committee of the city.
(2004 Code, § 9-712) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 99-2, passed 6-7-1999)
“F” UTILITY DISTRICT
§ 157.125 USE REGULATIONS.
   In an “F” Utility District, no land shall be used and no building shall be
used or converted for any use other than the use of the Palm Valley Utility
District.
(2004 Code, § 9-801) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.126 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   Temporary buildings may be used for construction purposes only and shall be
removed upon completion of construction.
(2004 Code, § 9-802) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.127 ANIMALS.
   No horses, cows, poultry or livestock of any kind (except for water fowl)
may be kept in the “F” Utility District.
(2004 Code, § 9-803) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.128 HEIGHT.
   The height limit shall be a maximum of 35 feet for any building.
(2004 Code, § 9-804) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
NON-CONFORMING USES
§ 157.140 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Any use of property existing at the time if passage of the passage of this
chapter that does not conform to the regulations prescribed in the preceding
subchapters of this chapter shall be deemed a non-conforming use.
(2004 Code, § 9-901) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.141 CONTINUATION OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   (1)   The lawful use of land existing at the time of the passage of
this chapter, although such does not conform to the provisions hereof, may be
continued, but if such non-conforming use is discontinued, any future use of
said premises shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If a building occupied by a non-conforming use is destroyed by fire
or the elements, it may not be reconstructed or rebuilt except to conform with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The lawful use of a building at the time of passage of this chapter
may be continued, although such does not conform to the provisions hereof, and
such use may be extended throughout the building; provided, no structural
alterations, except those required by law or ordinance, are made therein. If no
structural alterations are made, a non-conforming use of the building may be
changed to another non-conforming use of the same or more restricted
classification; provided, however, that, in the event a non-conforming use of a
building is once changed to a non-conforming use of a higher or more restricted
classification, it shall not later revert to the former or less restricted
classification.
   (C)   The right of non-conforming use to continue shall be subject to such
regulations as to maintenance of the premises and conditions of operation as
may in the judgment of the Board of Adjustment be reasonably required for the
protection of adjacent property.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be taken to prevent restoration of a
building destroyed to the extent of not more than 51% of its reasonable value
by fire, explosion or other casualty, or act of God, or a public enemy, nor the
continued occupancy or use of such building, or part thereof, which existed at
the time of such partial destruction.
(2004 Code, § 9-902) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
ZONING MAP DESIGNATIONS
§ 157.155 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   When definite distances in feet are not shown on the Zoning Map, the
district boundaries on the Zoning Map are intended to be along with existing
street, alley or property lines or extensions of or from the same. When the
location of a district boundary line is not otherwise determined, it shall be
determined by the scale of the map measured from a given line.
(2004 Code, § 9-1001) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.156 VARIANCE IN STREET LAYOUTS AND ZONING MAP.
   Where the street layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout
as shown on the Zoning Map, the Board of Adjustment may apply the designation
shown on the mapped streets in such a way as to carry out the intent and
purpose of the plan for the particular area in question.
(2004 Code, § 9-1002) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.157 METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION OF “A” RECREATIONAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The metes and bounds description of the section of “A” Recreational
District which includes the golf course is referred to and marked as Exhibit A
attached to the ordinance codified in this chapter and incorporated herein for
all purposes.
   (B)   Any discrepancies between the metes and bounds description in Exhibit
A and the Zoning Map shall be resolved by the Board of Adjustment in such a way
as to carry out the intent and purpose of the plan for the particular area in
question.
(2004 Code, § 9-1003) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY AND COMPLIANCE
§ 157.170 REQUIREMENT OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   No building erected or structurally altered shall be used, occupied or
changed in use until a building permit shall have been issued by the Building
Official stating that the building or proposed use of the building or premises
complies with the building laws and the provisions of this chapter.
(2004 Code, § 9-1101) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.171 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Certificates of occupancy and compliance shall be applied for coincident
with the application for building permit and shall be issued within ten days
after the erection and structural alterations of such building shall have been
completed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. A records of all
certificates shall be kept on file in the office of the city and copies shall
be furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest
in the building affected.
(2004 Code, § 9-1102) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.172 PERMIT FOR EXCAVATION.
   No permit for excavation for any building shall be issued before application
has been made for a certificate of occupancy and compliance.
(2004 Code, § 9-1103) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.173 REQUIREMENT OF ARCHITECT OR ENGINEER.
   Before issuing a permit for a public use building of 3,000 or more square
feet in area, the designer shall be an architect or engineer legally registered
under the laws of the state and he or she shall affix his or her official seal
to said drawings and specifications.
(2004 Code, § 9-1104) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
ZONING COMMISSION
§ 157.185 APPOINTMENT, NUMBER, TERMS, REMOVAL AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Zoning Commission shall consist of five members to be appointed by the
City Council for a term of three years. Any member of the Zoning Commission may
be removed at any time by a two-thirds vote of the City Council. Should a
member of the Commission fail to attend three consecutive regular meetings of
the Commission, he or she will be deemed to have abandoned membership in the
Commission and a vacancy shall be thereupon automatically declared. The members
of the Commission shall be selected for their outstanding and unselfish
interest in the protection of the health, safety, welfare and morals of the
citizens of the city.
(2004 Code, § 9-1201) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 157.186 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the City Council for any portion
of an unexpired term.
(2004 Code, § 9-1202) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 157.187 COMPENSATION AND HOLDING OTHER MUNICIPAL OFFICE.
   All members of the Zoning Commission shall serve without pay and shall hold
no other municipal office.
(2004 Code, § 9-1203) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 157.188 OFFICERS.
   The Zoning Commission shall elect a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and such
other officers as the Commission may deem necessary to conduct its business.
Each officer of the Commission shall serve a term of one year.
(2004 Code, § 9-1204) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 157.189 RULES, RECORDS AND MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall adopt its own rules for the practical and efficient
transaction of business and shall kept a record of its proceedings in
accordance with the provisions of the State Open Meetings Act, being Tex. Gov’t
Code §§ 551.001 et seq., now or hereafter amended. The Commission shall conduct
at least one meeting per quarter and additional meetings may be held from time
to time upon call of the Chairperson or a majority of the members of the
Commission.
(2004 Code, § 9-1205) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 157.190 FUNCTIONS OF COMMISSION.
   The function of the Zoning Commission shall be those described in Tex. Local
Gov’t Code Ch. 211 and 212 now or hereafter amended. In performance of its
duties, the Zoning Commission shall make careful and comprehensive studies of
present conditions and future anticipated growth in the city with due regard to
relationships between neighborhoods and properties within the city and adjacent
to the city. All actions and recommendations of the Zoning Commission shall be
taken with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated and
harmonious development of the city which will, in accordance with present and
future needs, best promote the health, safety, welfare and morals of the city.
(2004 Code, § 9-1206) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 157.191 RECOMMENDATION OF COMMISSION REQUIRED.
   No public building, street, alleyway, path, viaduct, bridge, railroad,
terminal, park, parkway, playground, aviation field, athletic field, school
ground, fire station or any other public ground or public improvement or part
thereof shall be constructed until the location thereof shall be reviewed by
the Zoning Commission and a recommendation made thereon for consideration by
the City Council; provided, however, in a case of disapproval by the Zoning
Commission, the reasons for such disapproval shall be communicated to the City
Council and such recommendations may be overruled by majority vote of the City
Council. In addition, the Zoning Commission may make recommendations to any
public authority, corporation or individual within the city or within the
territory adjacent or contiguous thereto concerning the relocation of any
buildings, structures or works of any sort to be created or constructed by
them.
(2004 Code, § 9-1207) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 157.192 SUBMISSION OF PLANS, PLATS AND RE-PLATS.
   (A)   All plans, plats or re-plats of land laid out in streets, alleys or
other portions of same intended to be dedicated to public use or for the use of
purchasers or owners of lots and property located within or adjacent to the
corporate limits of the city shall be submitted to the Zoning Commission for
recommendation before any connection shall be permitted within any public
utility owned or operated by the city; provided, then, in the case of a
disapproval or unfavorable recommendation, the Zoning Commission shall
communicate its reasons for disapproval to the City Council. Upon receipt of
the recommendation of such disapproval, the City Council may by majority vote
overrule same.
   (B)   New sewer or water improvements shall be voted on, nor shall any
public money be expended within any lands laid out in building lots, streets or
alleys until the plan, plat or re-plat of such lands shall have been
recommended by the Zoning Commission and approved by the City Council.
(2004 Code, § 9-1208) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 157.193 APPOINTMENT OF EMPLOYEES.
   The Zoning Commission may recommend to the City Council the appointment of
such employees as may be necessary for the Commission’s work.
(2004 Code, § 9-1209) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 157.194 PERIODIC REPORTS.
   (A)   The Zoning Commission shall make periodic reports to the City Council
giving a statement of the Commission’s work during the preceding reporting
period.
   (B)   Such a report must be made at least annually.
   (C)   In such report, the Commission shall also make its recommendations as
to future projects to be undertaken and for public improvements which should be
undertaken.
(2004 Code, § 9-1210) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 12-9-2002)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 157.205 APPOINTMENT, NUMBER AND TERMS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members each to be appointed
by the City Council for a term of two years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority.
(2004 Code, § 9-1301) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.206 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies on the Board shall be filled by appointment by the original
appointing authority of a suitable person to serve out the unexpired term of
any member whose place on the Board has become vacant for any cause.
(2004 Code, § 9-1302) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.207 POWERS.
   The Board is vested with power and authority in appropriate cases and
subject to the terms of this chapter in harmony with its general purpose and
intent and in accordance with general or special rules therein contained for
the purpose of rendering full justice and equity to the general public. The
Board shall have all the powers provided in Tex. Local Gov’t Code Ch. 211.
(2004 Code, § 9-1303) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.208 RULES AND MEETINGS.
   The Board may adopt rules to govern its proceedings; provided, however,
that, such rules are not inconsistent with this chapter. Meetings of the Board
shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the
Board may determine. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes
of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if
absent, or failing to vote, indicate such fact and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be filed
immediately in the office of the City Secretary and shall be a public record.
(2004 Code, § 9-1304) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.209 APPEALS TO BOARD.
   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved or
by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected by any
decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within 15
days’ time after the decision has been rendered by the administrative officer,
by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(2004 Code, § 9-1305) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.210 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal shall stay all proceedings of the action appealed from, unless the
officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed, otherwise, than by a restraining order which may be granted by the
Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
(2004 Code, § 9-1306) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.211 TIME AND NOTICE OF APPEAL.
   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of an
appeal, give the public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in
interest and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any
party may appear in person or by attorney or by agent.
(2004 Code, § 9-1307) (Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Fines. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter, or shall fail to comply therewith or with any of the requirements
hereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be liable to a fine
and, upon conviction of any such violation, shall be fined in any sum of not
more than $1,000 for each offense, and each day that such violation exists
shall be considered a separate offense.
(2004 Code, § 9-1401)
   (B)   Persons liable. The owners or owner of any building or premises or
part thereof, where anything in violation of this chapter shall be placed, or
shall exist, any architect, builder, contractor, agent, person and corporation,
employed in connection therewith and who may have assisted in the commission of
any such violation, shall be guilty of a separate offense and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined as provided above.
(2004 Code, § 9-1402)
(Ord. 83-4, passed 10-18-1983)
CHAPTER 158: SIGNS
Section
   
158.01   Purpose
   
158.02   Definitions
   
158.03   Permits, renewals, expiration and transfers
   
158.04   Administrative procedures
   
158.05   Certain sign prohibited
   
158.06   Sign types allowed
   
158.07   Sign standard
   
158.08   Signs exempt from regulation
   
158.09   Signs exempt from permit requirements
   
158.10   Wind pressure load requirements for signs
   
158.11   Fees, maintenance of and abandoned signs
   
158.12   Automobile and truck service stations; convenience stores with
gasoline pumps
   
158.13   Special provisions for recognized events and city holidays
   
158.14   Legally non-conforming signs; abatement
   
158.15   Appeals and variances
   
158.16   Bond required
 
   
158.99   Penalty
§ 158.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of these sign regulations are:
   (A)   To encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication in
the city;
   (B)   To maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment and the city’s
ability to attract sources of economic development and growth;
   (C)   To improve traffic safety;
   (D)   To minimize the possible adverse effects of signs on nearby public and
private property; and
   (E)   To enable the fair and consistent enforcement of community standards.
This chapter is adopted pursuant to Tex. Local Gov’t Code Ch. 216.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 158.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign which no longer (a) correctly directs or exhorts any
person, (b) advertises a bona fide business, service provided, lessor, owner,
project, activity conducted, or product available on the premises where the
sign is displayed. (A temporary closing of a business, not to exceed 90 days,
shall not be considered an abandoned sign.)
   AIRBORNE SIGN. A sign on a balloon, flag, pennant, or inflatable sign.
   ALTERED. A change of copy, logo, or other means in which the message is
changed or enlarged, changing shape or location.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign, which includes action or motion.
   AVERAGE GRADE. The grade of the finished ground level at the midpoint of
each exterior surface of a sign, or a structure, in the event that the sign is
attached to the structure. The height of a sign shall be computed as the
distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest
attached component of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower
of existing grade prior to construction or the newly established grade after
construction, exclusive of any filling, berming, mounding, or excavating solely
for the purpose of locating the sign. In cases in which the normal grade cannot
reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on the assumption that
the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the
elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street or the grade of
the land at the principal entrance to the principal structure of the zone lot,
whichever is lower.
   BANNER. A temporary sign made of fabric, plastic, paper, or other light,
pliable, or non-rigid material, not enclosed in a rigid frame (not including a
“fabric sign” as defined herein).
   BILLBOARD. Any sign that is freestanding or attached to or part of a
building and is an off-premise sign.
   BUILDING FACE or WALL. All window and wall area of a building in one plane
or elevation.
   CANOPY. Any structure attached to a building at the inner end or a
freestanding structure, with one or more supports, meant to provide shelter
from the weather.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (AUTOMATIC). A sign such as an electronically or
electrically controlled public service time, temperature and date sign, message
center, or reader board where different copy changes are shown on the same lamp
bank.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (MANUAL). A sign on which copy is changed manually in
the field, i.e., reader boards with changeable letters or changeable pictorial
panels.
   CHARITABLE PROJECT OR BENEFIT. Proceeds must be for a qualified 501C entity
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   COMMERCIAL SIGN. A sign other than a real estate “For Sale” or “For Lease”
sign, “Open House” sign, political sign, residential nameplate sign, public
information sign, traffic control sign, temporary new business opening sign, or
exempted sign, which directs the attention of the general public to a business,
product, service, or other commercial or business activity.
   CONFORMING SIGN. Signs built and maintained in accordance with the terms of
this chapter.
   CONTRACTOR'S SIGN. A sign intended to identify a contractor or subcontractor
on the site of a construction project where the contractor or subcontractor is
conducting work.
   COPY. The wording or graphics on a sign surface.
   ERECT. To build, construct, alter, reconstruct, pour, lay, move upon,
attach, hang, place, suspend or affix, and also includes the painting of wall
signs, murals or super graphics, or any physical operations on the premises
which are required for the construction of a sign including excavation, site
clearance, landfill and the like.
   FABRIC SIGN. A sign made of fabric or other non-rigid material, enclosed in
a permanent frame and erected as a permanent, on-site sign for a business,
service, product, or person.
   FACADE. The front or main part of a building facing a street.
   FACE OF SIGN. The entire area of a sign on which copy could be placed. The
area of a sign, which is visible from one direction as, projected on a place.
   FINE ART. Sculpture, fountains, or similar objects, which have been
identified as FINE ART by the Mayor or designee, and which in no way identify
or advertise a product or business.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any sign which contains an intermittent or flashing light
source, or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by
means of animation or an extremely mounted intermittent light source.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign which is not attached to or on the walls, face,
or exterior of a building.
   GRAND OPENING. The initial opening of an entirely new business.
   GROUND LEVEL. The immediate surrounding grade.
   HEIGHT OF SIGN. The vertical distance measured from the surrounding grade to
the highest point on the sign or sign structure.
   HIGH RISE BUILDING. A structure of more than two stories in height.
   ILLEGAL SIGN. Signs existing on the effective date of the adoption of this
chapter which are not registered in accordance with the terms of §
158.03(C) shall be categorized as illegal.
   INDIRECT LIGHTING. A light source separated from the surface and
illuminating the sign surface by means of spotlights or similar fixtures.
   JOINT DIRECTORY SIGN. A sign, which consists of a composite of several
individual signs, identifying the businesses located in a commercial or office
complex.
   LANDSCAPING. For the purposes of this chapter, LANDSCAPING shall include any
combination of shrubs, vines, hedge plantings, plants, trees or palms located
in a planting area at the base of the sign. For the purposes of this chapter,
the term LANDSCAPING shall not mean solely turf or grass.
   LEGALLY NON-CONFORMING. Signs existing on the effective date of the adoption
of this chapter which are not in conformance with the chapter but which are
registered with city hall in accordance with the terms of §
158.03 shall be categorized as legally non-conforming.
   LOGO. A letter, character, or symbol used to represent a person,
corporation, or business enterprise.
   LOT. A parcel, tract, plot or area of land accessible by means of a street
or other permanently reserved principal means of access. It may be a single
parcel separately described in a deed or plat, or it may include parts of or a
combination of such parcels when adjacent to one another and used as a whole.
   MAJOR CORPORATE SPONSOR. The sponsor of a public event, listed on all
advertising and other public promotions, resulting from the contribution of
funds, equipment, products, and/or in kind services to the event.
   MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure at the entry to a building, which
projects beyond the building or extends along and projects beyond the wall of
the building, and which generally contains a commercial message(s), and is
designed to provide protection from the weather.
   MINIMUM SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular area bounded by the right-of-way lines
of a comer lot and a line connecting the two points on the right-of-way lines
measured 20 feet from the point of the intersection of the right-of-way lines.
For ingress/egress points and private roads, the minimum sight triangle shall
be determined using the intersection of the curb line or edge of pavement for
the ingress/egress point or private road and the public right-of-way.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A freestanding sign, other than a pole sign, which has a
skirt, dressed base, or other means of enclosing the structural members which
support the sign, and which skirting or dressing has been approved by the Mayor
or designee, base must equal at least 50% of sign width and not to exceed 120%
of the width of the sign for signs up to eight feet in height. For signs
proposed to be taller than 8 feet in height, the width of the approved skirting
or dressing must equal a minimum of 50% of the sign width, but shall in no case
exceed four feet in width. For the purposes of this chapter, the terms SKIRTING
and/or DRESSING shall mean the enclosing of the structural members which
support the sign with materials such as decorative masonry, natural and
decorative stone, masonry with a stucco finish, and decorative wood such as
redwood or cedar when appropriately finished to prevent decay and
discoloration.
   MULTI-POLE, SINGLE POLE SIGN. A sign whose only structural support consists
of exposed poles, posts, beams, or other devices mounted in the ground.
   OFFICE COMPLEX/MULTI-TENANT SHOPPING CENTER. Two or more offices or stores
sharing customer parking area, regardless of whether said offices or office
establishments occupy separate structures or are under separate ownership.
   OFFICIAL SIGN. Any sign erected by or at the direction of any governmental
body.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign other than an on-premise sign.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign which advertises only goods, services, facilities,
events or attractions available on the premises where located, or identifies
the owner or occupant or directs traffic on the premises. All other signs are
off premise signs.
   OWNER. A person recorded as such on official records and including duly
authorized agent, notary, purchaser, lessee, devisee, or judiciary; anyone
having a vested or contingent interest in the property or business in question.
   PAINTING. The application of paint in the course of normal maintenance which
in no way shall alter the message or group of works or letters.
   PERMANENT MULTI-FAMILY or SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign which
designates the name of a project, subdivision, or other residential district,
and which is located at or in close proximity to the main entrance.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
organization of any kind.
   POLITICAL SIGN. Any sign which is designated to influence the action of
voters for the passage or defeat of a measure or candidate appearing on the
ballot in connection with any national, state or local election.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently affixed to a building, structure or
the ground, and designed or constructed in such a manner that it can be moved
or relocated without involving any structural or support changes. This
definition includes, but is not limited to, A-frame signs, sandwich signs, curb
signs and signs on trailers with or without wheels or on other vehicles which
are primarily used as signs.
   PREMISES. An area of land, with its appurtenances and buildings, which,
because of it unity of use, may be regarded as the smallest conveyable unit of
real estate.
   PROJECT DEVELOPMENT SIGN. A temporary sign for a commercial or multi-family
tract which may identify a project under construction and includes the
project's name and address, general contractor, architect, financing, and
contact agent, with appropriate phone numbers.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A wall-mounted sign, erected in lieu of the permitted,
free-standing monument sign, which projects from the face of a structure,
meeting the following requirements:
      (1)   The sign shall be pinned away from the wall of the structure a
minimum of six inches.
      (2)   The sign shall not extend over any adjacent right-of-way or
property line.
      (3)   Projecting signs shall be designed as an integral architectural
element of the building to which it principally relates. The mounting brackets
of such signs will be an integral part of the sign and complementary to the
design of the sign. No protecting sign shall be entirely supported by an
unbraced parapet wall.
      (4)   No unshielded lights will be permitted. All lighting fixtures shall
be placed in such a way, as they will not be struck or otherwise damaged by the
sign in the event of high wind.
      (5)   Projecting signs shall be designed to meet the wind resistance
requirements of §
158.10.
   PUBLIC INFORMATION SIGN. Any sign or banner which is intended to identify
community, civic and social events, special events, facilities, no-trespassing
areas and is not a commercial sign or official sign as defined herein.
   READER BOARD. A sign that has changeable or removable lettering.
   REAL ESTATE “FOR SALE”, “FOR LEASE”, or “OPEN HOUSE”. A temporary sign
designating that the premises upon which it is erected is for sale, rent, or
lease or that an open house is being held on the day on which the sign is
displayed.
   REFLECTIVE SURFACE. Any material or devise which has the effect of
intensifying reflected light, including but not limited to scotch light, day
glow, glass beads and luminous paint.
   REQUIRED SIGNS. Any sign required by law for the protection of the general
health, safety and welfare of the public. For the purposes of this chapter,
numbers attached to the front plane of a facing and visible from the adjacent
public right-of-way or private ingress/egress for the purpose of identifying
the street address of the structure shall be considered a required sign. Such
numbers shall be a minimum of four inches in height, shall be of a color in
distinct contrast to the color of the wall to which it is attached, and shall
be plainly visible from the adjacent public right-of-way or private ingress/
egress.
   RESIDENTIAL NAMEPLATE SIGN. A sign permitted for the sole purpose of
identifying the inhabitant residing therein, the house name, or identifying the
address of the house. The sign may contain no advertising of any kind.
   ROOF LINE. The highest point of the coping on a flat roof, false mansard, or
parapet wall; the deck line of a true mansard roof; the ridge line between the
upper and lower slopes of a gambrel roof; or the mean height level between the
eaves and the ridge of a gable or hip roof.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign attached to, and wholly or partially dependent upon, the
roof of a structure for support, or attached to the roof in any way, but not
extending above the roofline, as defined by this chapter. Such signs will be
completely above the roofline, as defined by this chapter. Such signs will be
completely enclosed between the sign and the corresponding roof, and shall be
designed to meet the wind resistance requirements of §
158.10.
   SIGN. Anything of visual appearance primarily used for, or having the effect
of, attracting attention from the streets, sidewalks, or other curbside public
area for identification purposes, whether illuminated or non-illuminated. An
identification logo, description, illustration or device which is affixed to or
represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure of land, and
which directs attention to a product, place, activity, person, service,
institution or business, whether illuminated or non-illuminated. For the
purposes of removal, the definition of SIGN shall include all of the sign
structure. For the purposes of this chapter, this definition shall also include
those signs painted directly upon a building or other structure or vehicle. The
basic intent behind this definition is not to discourage product displays,
design, or art from epitomizing simplicity, good taste, and compatibility with
the community's desired image.
   SIGN AREA. The area of a sign face (which is also the sign area of a wall
sign or other sign with only one face) shall be computed by means of the
smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle, or combination thereof that will
encompass the extreme limits of the writing, representation, emblem, or other
display, together with any material or color forming an integral part of the
background of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop
or structure against which it is placed, but not including any supporting
framework, bracing, or decorative fence or wall when such fence or wall
otherwise meets zoning ordinance regulations and is clearly incidental to the
display itself. The sign area for a sign with more than one face shall be
computed by adding together the area of all sign faces visible from one point.
When two identical sign faces are placed back, so that both faces cannot be
viewed from any point at the same time, and when such sign faces are part of
the same sign structure and are not more than 42 inches apart, the sign area
shall be computed by the measurement of one of the faces.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The sign and all parts associated with its construction.
   SNIPE SIGN. A sign which is tacked, nailed, posted, pasted, glued or
otherwise attached to trees, utility poles, stakes, or fences or to other
objects, and whose message is not associated with the premises upon which such
sign is located.
   TEMPORARY SIGNAGE. A sign erected for a special purpose and for a
specifically stated short term of duration, as regulated by §
158.06(H), §
158.07 (Table 2), and §
158.13 .
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGN. A permitted sign for the purpose of identifying
parking areas and directing the flow of traffic on private property.
   WALL SIGN. A sign attached to, painted on, or erected against the wall of a
building or structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plan parallel to
the face of the wall and not protecting more than nine inches from the face of
the wall at any point.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign painted, drawn, or otherwise affixed to the inside of an
exterior window or glass door of a commercial or office building.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 158.03 PERMITS, RENEWALS, EXPIRATION AND TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful to commence or to proceed with
the erection, construction, reconstruction, conversation, alteration,
enlargement, extension, placement, or moving of any sign or sign structure or
any portion thereof without first having applied in writing to the Mayor, or
his designee, for a sign permit to do so, and a sign permit has been granted
thereof. Should any existing sign be enlarged, replaced, moved, or
reconstructed, it shall be considered a new sign, requiring a sign permit. If
an existing sign is repainted or the sign panels replaced for the purpose of
changing the business or tenant, it shall require the filing of an assignment
permit, pursuant to (I)(2). However, the re-painting of a sign or the
replacement of sign panels for ordinary maintenance, the seasonal updating of
the sign message by the same business or tenant, or the repair or restoration
of the existing sign to a safe condition after being damaged by a storm or
other accidental act, shall not constitute such a change as to classify the
sign as a new sign, and shall not require a sign permit, providing that the
repair and/or replacement shall be in conformance with the height, location,
and dimensions as shown in accordance with the original sign permit, and that
any damage to the sign shall not be sufficient to make the sign subject to the
requirements of §
158.14.
   (B)   Responsibility to obtain permit. The primary responsibility for
securing the necessary permit(s) shall be the property owner's. However, if the
property owner should contract part or all of the proposed work, it shall
become the responsibility of the person or firm hired to perform that work to
ensure that all required permits and approvals have been secured prior to any
work being initiated. For the purposes of this chapter, through the acceptance
of the contract to perform the work, the third party so contracted shall become
equally liable for all fees, fines, and penalties prescribed by this chapter
arising from violations resulting from that work. All required permits must be
renewed every three years.
   (C)   Applications to be submitted. Applications shall be submitted to the
Mayor or designee for approval. Said application shall consist of a scale
drawing showing the detail and dimensions of a said sign along with the
dimensions of the building and proposed location of the sign(s).
   (D)   Electrical permit and inspection. All signs which are electrically
illuminated by neon and other means shall require a separate electrical permit
and inspection.
   (E)   Erection of signs in 90 days. All signs shall be erected within 90
days of issuance of the permit; otherwise the permit shall become null and
void.
   (F)   Signs erected and maintained by city. Signs erected and maintained by
the city shall not require a permit nor may they be restricted by the
provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Signs existing on date of passage. All signs existing on the date of
the passage of this chapter shall be registered and contain the information of
division (C) by 5-18-2003, conforming or legally non-conforming.
   (H)   The Mayor or designee shall cause an inspection of the sign for which
each permit for a new sign or for modification of an existing sign is issued
during the fourth month after the issuance of such permit or at such earlier
date as the owner may request. If the construction is not substantially
complete at the time of inspection the permit shall lapse and become void. If
the construction is complete and in full compliance with this chapter and with
the building and electrical codes, the Mayor or designee shall affix to the
premises a permanent symbol identifying the sign(s) and the applicable permit
by number or other reference. If the construction is substantially complete,
but not in full compliance with this chapter and applicable codes, the Mayor or
designee shall give the owner or applicant notice of the deficiencies and shall
allow an additional 30 days from the date of inspection for the deficiencies to
be corrected. If the deficiencies are not corrected by such date, the permit
shall lapse. If the construction is then complete, the Mayor or designee shall
affix to the premises the permanent symbol described above.
   (I)   The owner of a sign requiring a permit under this chapter shall at all
times maintain in force a sign permit for such sign.
      (1)   A continuing sign permit shall lapse automatically if the business
ceases. A sign permit shall also lapse if the business activity on the premises
is discontinued for a period of 90 days or more and is not renewed within 30
days of a notice from the city to the last permittee, sent to the premises,
that the sign permit will lapse if such activity is not renewed.
      (2)   A current and valid sign permit shall be freely assignable to a
successor as owner of the property of a business for the same premises, subject
only to filing such application as the Mayor or designee may require and paying
any applicable fee. The assignment shall be accomplished by filing and shall
not require approval.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.04 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Forms. All applicants for a sign permit shall use forms provided by
the Mayor or designee. The applicant shall answer all questions and, if
required, include a site plan indicating the location of all structures in
relation on property lines.
   (B)   Signs to conform to standards. All signs shall conform to the
standards contained in Table 1 and Table 2, unless otherwise provided herein.
   (C)   Fees. All fees shall be approved by the City Councilmen and may be
amended from time to time.
   (D)   Designs with aesthetic appearance. Applicants are encouraged to use
designs, which enhance the aesthetic appearance of the city.
   (E)   Representations by the sign permit applicant. All representations,
whether oral or written, made by an applicant or his agent on behalf of the
application for a sign permit under this chapter shall constitute a material
factor in granting a sign(s) permit. It shall be unlawful for the permittee to
vary from such representations unless the permittee first makes application, as
required by the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Voiding of sign permit. Any permit may be revoked by the Mayor or his
or her designee, at any time prior to the completion of the sign for which the
same was issued, when it shall appear to him or her (1) that there is departure
from the plans, specifications or conditions as required under the terms of the
permit, (2) that the same was procured by false representation, or (3) that any
provision of this chapter are being violated. Written notice of such revocation
shall be served upon the owner, his or her agent, or contractor, or upon any
person employed in the building or structure for winch such permit was issued,
via a stop-work order, which shall be posted in a prominent location, and
thereafter, no such construction shall proceed.
   (G)   Replacement of permanent signs. In those instances where a permit is
requested to replace an existing permanent sign, the original sign shall be
completely removed prior to erection of the replacement sign. The sign
structure of the original sign may be maintained in those instances where the
replacement sign merely involves replacement of the sign lens or face, and
where the replacement of the original sign does not invoke the requirements of
§
158.14.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 158.05 CERTAIN SIGN PROHIBITED.
   The following sign shall be prohibited in the city:
   (A)   Airborne signs.
   (B)   Illegal signs as defined by the terms of §
158.02, above, or any other sign constructed after the enactment of this
chapter and which is not in compliance with the terms of this chapter.
   (C)   Moving, swinging, flashing signs, including electronic message
centers, with the exception of time and temperature signs, however, such time
and temperature signs shall be for that purpose only, shall be constant in
nature, and shall not grow, melt, x-ray, up or scroll down, write-on travel,
inverse, roll, snow or present pictorial or other animation.
   (D)   Off-premise signs.
   (E)   Portable signs, except those used for temporary purposes as authorized
by this chapter.
   (F)   Banners.
   (G)   Sidewalk sandwich signs.
   (H)   Pole signs.
   (I)   Snipe signs.
   (J)   Roof signs.
   (K)   Signs with a reflective surface as herein defined.
   (L)   Signs which contain characters, cartoons, or other representation, or
statements, words or pictures of an obscene, prurient, or immoral character.
   (M)   Signs which contain or are an imitation of an official traffic sign or
signal, or which are of a size, location, movement, content, coloring, or
manner of illumination which may be confused with or constructed as a traffic
control device, or which may hide from view any traffic or street sign or
signal.
   (N)   High rise signs.
   (O)   Wall and awning signs.
   (P)   Projecting signs.
   (Q)   Any sign constructed or located in such a manner that is or becomes an
immediate hazard or danger to persons or property because of being in an unsafe
condition, or which obstructs any window, door, or fire escape of any building.
Such signs will be subject to immediate removal by the Mayor, or his or her
designee, without notice, at the expense of the owner.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.06 SIGN TYPES ALLOWED.
   The following signs shall be allowed under the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Residential signs:
      (1)   Residential nameplate signs.
      (2)   Permanent multi-family signs.
   (B)   Commercial signs for multi-tenant centers and office complexes:
      (1)   Monument signs.
      (2)   Joint directory commercial signs.
      (3)   Nameplate signs.
   (C)    Commercial signs for single business use:
      (1)   Monument signs.
      (2)   Nameplate signs.
   (D)   Traffic-control signs upon private property.
   (E)   Real estate, for sale, or open house signs.
   (F)   Project development signs.
   (G)   Political signs.
   (H)   Temporary signage:
      (1)   Advertising a “grand opening”: A one-time only permit per business,
for a ten-day period.
      (2)   For charitable projects and benefits, limited to two permits per
year per business.
      (3)   For recognized events and city holidays, as provided in §
158.13.
   (I)   Contractor's sign.
   (J)   Any sign not specifically listed as being allowed herein is
expressively prohibited.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 158.07 SIGN STANDARD.
   The following two tables (Table 1 and Table 2) contain standards, which are,
applicable to all signs permitted under the terms of this chapter.
   (A)   A variance of the requirements of this Table 1 may be considered by
the Board of Adjustment and Appeals. (See §
158.15.)
TABLE 1
Sign Number, Area and Height Regulations
Sign Type Maximum No. Per Lot Maximum Size in Area Maximum in Height Setback
TABLE 1
Sign Number, Area and Height Regulations
                                                        Maximum    Maximum
Sign Type      Maximum No. Per Lot                      Size in    in       Setback
                                                        Area       Height
Residential Signs
                                                        2 sq. ft.
                                                        per
1) Residential                                          residence, 6 feet   Outside
nameplate         1 unit per dwelling             or 0.5 sq. from     of
signs                                                   foot per   average  public
                                                        multi-     grade    R-O-W
                                                        family
                                                        unit
2) Permanent                                                       16 feet  Outside
multi-family                                            24 sq. ft. from     of
or subdivision 1 per project or subdivision             (eg: 3' x  average  public
identification                                          4')        grade    R-O-W
signs
Commercial Signs for Multi-Tenant Center and Office Complexes
1) Monument                                                        16 feet  Outside
sign (double   1 sign per center                        72 sq. ft. from     of
faced)                                                  per face   average  public
                                                                   grade    R-O-W
2) Joint                                                           16 feet  Outside
directory      1 per tenant                             2 sq. ft.  from     of
commercial                                              per tenant average  public
signs                                                              grade    R-O-W
                                                                            Outside
3) Nameplate   1 per tenant                             2 sq. ft.           of
signs                                                                       public
                                                                            R-O-W
Commercial Sign for Single Business Use
                                                                   16 feet  Outside
1) Monument    1 sign per lot *                         50 sq. ft. from     of
(double faced)                                          per face   average  public
                                                                   grade    R-O-W
                                                                            Outside
2) Nameplate   1 per tenant                             2 sq. ft.           of
sign                                                                        public
                                                                            R-O-W
Traffic Control Signs Located on Private Property
                                                                   8 feet   Outside
               Comply with state standards              2 sq. ft.  from     of
                                                                   average  public
                                                                   grade    R-O-W
Freestanding Real Estate Signs
                                                        + Sites    3 ft.    Outside
                                                        with less  from     of
               1 per standard lot, 1 per corner lot     than 1     average  public
                                                        acre: 6    grade    R-O-W
                                                        sq. ft.
                                                        + Sites
                                                        with more  8 feet   Outside
                                                        than 1     from     of
                                                        acre and   average  public
                                                        less than  grade    R-O-W
                                                        5 acres:
                                                        16 sq. ft.
                                                        + Sites    8 feet   Outside
                                                        with more  from     of
                                                        than 5     average  public
                                                        acres: 32  grade    R-O-W
                                                        sq. ft.
Project Development Signs
                                                        32 sq. ft. 8 feet   Outside
               1 per development                        (eg: 4' x  from     of
                                                        8')        average  public
                                                                   grade    R-O-W
Political Signs
                                                        6 sq. ft.  3 feet   Outside
               1 per lot per candidate                  (eg: 2' x  from     of
                                                        3')        average  public
                                                                   grade    R-O-W
General Contractor’s Sign
                                                        6 sq. ft.  3 feet   Outside
               1 per contractor                         (eg: 2' x  from     of
                                                        3')        average  public
                                                                   grade    R-O-W
Temporary Signs
                                                                   16 feet
                                                        36 sq. ft. from     Outside
               1 per business per permit (See § 158.06 per sign   average  of
               (I))                                     (eg: 4' x  grade,   public
                                                        9')        if free  R-O-W
                                                                   standing
(Monument Sign) *One per property, except where a business owns, under single
ownership, the entire street frontage of a block, that is, the entire frontage of a
public street between two other intersecting public streets. Under these
circumstances the business may be permitted two, freestanding monument signs, as
defined by this chapter, providing the signs are placed a minimum of 150 feet
apart. In those areas where a business owns, under single ownership, a minimum of
200 feet of lineal street frontage, as measure on a single street (i.e., the
measurement shall not be made around the corner of one street onto another), the
business may be permitted two, free-standing monument signs, provided they are
placed a minimum of 150 feet apart. In no instance shall a business with a(n)
existing non-conforming freestanding sign(s) be permitted the two freestanding
monument signs permitted under this provision unless and until the nonconforming
freestanding sign(s) is (are) first removed.
 
   (B)   A variance of the requirements of this Table 2 may be considered by
the Board of Adjustment and Appeals. (See §
158.15.)
TABLE 2
Review, Lighting, Landscaping, and Duration Requirements for Signs
Sign Type Review Required Optional Lighting Type Duration Limit Subject to §
                                                 158.03(I)
TABLE 2
Review, Lighting, Landscaping, and Duration Requirements for Signs
Sign Type        Review Required Optional       Duration Limit Subject to §
                                 Lighting Type  158.03(I)
Residential Signs
1) Residential   No              Direct or      None
nameplate signs                  Indirect
2) Permanent
multi-family or                  Direct or
subdivision      Yes             Indirect       None
identification
signs
Commercial Signs for Multi-Tenant Centers and Office Complexes
1) Monument      Yes             Direct or      None
signs                            Indirect
2) Joint                         Direct or
directory        Yes             Indirect       None
commercial signs
3) Nameplate     Yes             Direct or      None
sign                             Indirect
Commercial Signs for Single Business Use
1) Monument      Yes             Direct or      None
double-faced                     Indirect
2) Nameplate     Yes             Direct or      None
sign                             Indirect
Traffic Control Signs Located on Private Property
                                 Not Applicable
Freestanding Real Estate Signs
                 If less than 6  Not Permitted
                 sq. ft.: No                    Remove 30 days after sale or
                 All others: Yes Not Permitted  lease

Project Development Signs
                                                Remove after one year or 30
                                                days after completion of
                                 Direct or      project (certificate of
                 Yes             Indirect       occupancy) if bldg. permit is
                                                issued within one year from
                                                the issuance of the sign
                                                permit
Political Signs
                 No              Not Applicable 30 days before election, and
                                                7 days after election
General Contractor’s Sign
                 No              Not Applicable Remove with issuance of
                                                certificate of occupancy
Temporary Signs
                                 Direct or      15 days per permit as
                 Yes             Indirect       established by Mayor or
                                                designee
 
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 158.08 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM REGULATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following signs:
   (A)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other metal
provided that such signs shall not exceed two square feet.
   (B)   Signs erected and maintained by the city.
   (C)   Official governmental notices and notices posted by governmental
officers in the performance of their duties, governmental signs to control
traffic or for other regulatory purposes, or to identify streets, or to warn of
danger.
   (D)   Works of fine art, as identified by the Mayor or his or her designee
which in no way identify or advertise a product or business.
   (E)   Temporary decorations or displays, when they are clearly incidental to
and are customarily and commonly associated with any national or local holiday
or celebration; provided, that such decorations are maintained in an attractive
condition, do not constitute a fire or traffic or pedestrian hazard, and are
removed within seven days after the event or celebration has occurred.
   (F)   Temporary or permanent signs erected by public utility companies or
construction companies to warn of danger or hazardous conditions, including
signs indicating the presence of underground cables, gas lines and similar
devices.
   (G)   Signs displayed on trucks, buses, trailers or other vehicles which are
being operated in the normal course of business, indicating the name of the
owner, business and location, (e.g. moving vans, delivery trucks, rental trucks
and the like); provided that the primary purpose of the vehicles is not for
display of signs, and provided that they are parked in an area appropriate to
their use as vehicles, are normally used in the course of business, are in
operable condition, and carry a current and valid license plate and state
inspection tag.
   (H)   Signs which indicate that a business is “Open” or “Closed”, including
hours of operation at each entrance provided that such sign does not exceed
five square feet in area.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 158.09 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following signs are exempt from permit requirements.
   (A)    Political signs.
   (B)   Real estate “For Sale” signs.
   (C)   By law required signs.
   (D)   General contractor's sign.
   (E)   Traffic control signs.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 158.10 WIND PRESSURE LOAD REQUIREMENTS FOR SIGNS.
   Any sign as defined in this chapter, which will have a height, of six feet
or more, shall be designed and constructed to withstand wind load pressures in
pounds per square foot as set out in Table 3, below.
 
Table 3
Minimum Wind Load Pressure Resistance in Pounds Per Square Foot
Sign Height Pressure
0 - 16 feet 35 PSF
 
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.11 FEES, MAINTENANCE OF AND ABANDONED SIGNS.
   (A)   The City Councilmen shall approve all fees for issuance of permits
pursuant to ths code. A current list of fees shall be maintained in City Hall.
The Board may change and alter these fees at any time.
   (B)   All signs and sign supports shall be maintained in good repair so as
to prevent rust, peeling, flaking, or fading. Broken panels, missing letters,
flaking and peeling paint, sign lighting not maintained in operating condition,
and all other visual damage to a sign shall be repaired and all dead
landscaping associated with the sign shall be replaced within 30 days of
notification.
   (C)   Any sign or sign structure which advertises a business, or use no
longer conducted or service no longer rendered, or a product no longer offered
on the premises where the sign is located shall be classified an abandoned
sign, and shall be removed by the owner, agent, or person having beneficial use
of the property upon which the sign is located within ten days of notification
concerning the removal. Removal shall include the subject sign, as well as the
sign structure, poles, and other supporting members.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.12 AUTOMOBILE AND TRUCK SERVICE STATIONS; CONVENIENCE STORES WITH
GASOLINE PUMPS.
   (A)   Brand identification signs.
      (1)   One monument sign not exceeding 36 square feet per face.
      (2)   One wall-sign not exceeding 48 square feet in size.
      (3)   One wall mounted company logo attached to the principal structure,
not exceeding 32 square feet in size.
      (4)   One brand identification sign, not exceeding 36 square feet per
face, attached to the gasoline pump island canopy in lieu of the permitted
monument sign.
      (5)   One company logo, not exceeding 32 feet per face, attached to the
gasoline pump island canopy in lieu of the permitted wall-mounted logo.
   (B)   Price signs.
      (1)   One price sign per pump island not exceeding ten square feet per
face of the sign. Price signs complying with the size limitation of this
section, and placed upon opposing ends of the same pump island, shall be
considered one sign.
      (2)   One price sign as a component of the permitted monument sign, not
exceeding ten square feet per face, in lieu of the price signs permitted upon
the pump islands. The permissible area of the price sign, when placed upon the
permitted monument sign, shall be considered a component of the overall
permitted area of the monument sign, and not in addition to the overall
permitted area of the monument sign.
      (3)   One price sign, not exceeding ten square feet per face, located
upon the canopy above the pump islands in lieu of the price signs permitted
upon the pump islands or the alternative monument sign location.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 158.13 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR RECOGNIZED EVENTS AND CITY HOLIDAYS.
   Regardless of any provision to the contrary contained in this chapter,
during the period of recognized events and city holidays, the Mayor or his or
her designee, may grant permits for temporary signage of any nature for the
specific period of the respective event or holiday.
   (A)   To qualify for a permit, the proposed temporary signage must directly
incorporate reference to the applicable recognized event or city holiday.
   (B)   If a permit has been issued for temporary parking facilities that
permit holder may also obtain a temporary sign permit to identify the parking
facility. The sign may be a flashing type sign, the exact nature of the sign is
subject to approval of the Mayor or his or her designee. There shall be a $10
fee if the permit is issued simultaneous with the temporary parking facilities
permit.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 158.14 LEGALLY NON-CONFORMING SIGNS; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Existing non-conforming signs. An existing non-conforming sign legally
registered, as required by this chapter, may continue to be maintained and used
subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Enlargement. No non-conforming sign shall be enlarged, expanded, or
extended to occupy a greater square footage or height than was occupied on the
date of its registration.
      (2)   Relocation. No non-conforming sign shall be moved in whole or in
part to any other portion of the lot, parcel, or building not so occupied on
the date of its registration. Any legally non-conforming sign that is removed
from its original location may not be reinstated at any other location within
the city unless it shall conform with all of the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Discontinuance. If the business, service, product, or person
advertised or identified by a legally non-conforming, on-site sign ceases to be
conducted at that site, all signs must be brought into conformance with the
requirements of this chapter prior to utilization by any new business, service,
product or person. If the business, service, product, or person advertised or
identified by a legally non-conforming on-site sign ceases to be conducted at
that site for a period exceeding 90 days without being replaced by a new
business, service, product, or person, the non-conforming sign shall be
classified an abandoned sign, and removed. (See §
158.02 for definition of “abandoned sign”).
      (4)   Destruction. Should any non-conforming sign be damaged or destroyed
by any means it may be repaired and/or re-built with the exact same type and
size of sign with no change in the business, service, product, or person
advertised or identified on the sign. The content of the sign may not change.
      (5)   Removal. If a legally registered non-conforming sign is removed for
any reason it shall not be replaced except with a conforming sign, except a
legally registered non-conforming sign may be removed prior to a hurricane or
any other natural disaster and said sign shall not lose it non-conforming
status, provided the same sign is re-installed within a period not to exceed 30
days from its initial removal.
      (6)   Replacement. The replacement of the sign(s) or the repainting of
the sign face(s) of a legally non-conforming sign, not effecting a change in
the business, service, product, or person identified or advertised, shall be
considered maintenance, and shall not classify the non-conforming sign as a
“new” sign requiring conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Determination of non-conformance. In any instance of cases of doubt or
a specific question raised as to whether a non-conforming sign exists, it shall
be a question of fact and shall be determined on appeal to the Board of
Adjustment as referenced in §
158.15.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 158.15 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Mayor or his or her designee in
the administration of this chapter may appeal such decision to the Board of
Adjustments established pursuant to Tex. Local Gov’t Code Ch. 211. The Board of
Adjustments shall only hear and decide an appeal that alleges error in an
order, requirements, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of this chapter, or grant variances from the strict
enforcement of the requirements of this chapter due to special conditions, a
literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary hardship, and
so that the spirit of the law is observed and substantial justice is done.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 158.16 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Upon the granting of the permit required by this chapter, and prior to
the commencement of erection and or construction, a bond with good and
sufficient sureties for a sum of not less than $10,000 providing for the
payment to the city and to any person or persons injured or damaged in person
or property, including damages to streets, culverts or any other property of
the city, for all injuries and damaged caused by, or growing out of, or in any
manner connected with the erection, construction, structural alteration,
placing or locating of the sign covered by the permit.
   (B)   Upon filing of the required bond, the Building Inspector shall
determine whether or not the sum of $10,000 is sufficient to cover the amount
of probable damage. In the event that it is determined by the Building
Inspector that a higher amount is necessary to cover such damages, such bond
shall be made and increased to such determined amount.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be fined in an amount not to exceed $500 and each day that the violation
continues shall be a separate violation.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-17-2003)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   BOUNDARIES
      
II.   UTILITY DISTRICT
TABLE I: BOUNDARIES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2009-2   5-15-2009   Adopting the official map showing the boundaries of the
                     city; setting the city boundaries
 
TABLE II: UTILITY DISTRICT
 
Ord.  Date       Description
No.   Passed
2005- - -2005  Making Tex. Local Gov’t Code § 43.075 applicable to the city and the Palm
3                Valley Estates Utility District
2005-            Seceding the powers and duties of, taking over all assets and other property
4     4-25-2005  of, and assuming all debts, liabilities and obligations of the Palm Valley
                 Estates Utility District
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Codes
References to 2004 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS CODES
 
Texas Codes                           Code Section
Administrative Code
Administrative Code Title 31, Ch. 307 154.03
                                      
 
 
Texas Codes                              Code Section
Code of Criminal Procedure
Code of Criminal Procedure Art. 45.059   130.07
Code of Criminal Procedure Art. 102.017  32.03
Code of Criminal Procedure Art. 102.0172 32.01
                                         
 
 
Texas Codes        Code Section
Family Code
Family Code Ch. 31 130.06
                   
 
Texas Codes Code Section
Texas Codes                   Code Section
Government Code
Gov’t Code Ch. 211          157.207
Gov’t Code §§ 551.001 et s157.189
Gov’t Code Ch. 573          32.17
Gov’t Code Ch. 2256         32.15
Gov’t Code § 2256.005 (b)(232.17
Gov’t Code § 2256.005 (b)(332.17
Gov’t Code § 2256.005(i)   32.17
Gov’t Code § 2256.005(i)(1-32.17
Gov’t Code Art. 2529b-l     32.17
                              
 
Texas Codes Code Section
Texas Codes                         Code Section
Local Government Code
Local Gov’t Code § 43.075        TSO II
Local Gov’t Code § 51.052        30.01
Local Gov’t Code § 52.004        30.03
Local Gov’t Code § 54.001        10.99
Local Gov’t Code § 54.017        10.99
Local Gov’t Code §§ 201.001 et s31.03
Local Gov’t Code § 201.003(13)   31.04
Local Gov’t Code § 203.023       31.04
                                    157.190;
Local Gov’t Code Ch. 211          157.207;
                                    158.15
Local Gov’t Code Ch. 212          157.190
Local Gov’t Code Ch. 216          158.02
                                    
 
 
Texas Codes                   Code Section
Transportation Code
Transportation Code § 472.00270.21
Transportation Code § 551.04 70.20
                              
 
 
Texas Codes                  Code Section
Water Code
Water Code § 16.315         152.01
Water Code § 49.004         52.12
Water Code § 49.216         52.06
Water Code §§ 54.205 et seq52.12
                             
 
REFERENCES TO 2004 CODE
2004 Code 2014 Code
2004 Code 2014 Code
1-103     10.05
2-101     30.01
2-102     30.02
2-103     30.03
2-104     30.04
2-105     30.05
2-106     30.05
2-107     30.06
3-101     95.01
3-102     95.99
3-201     95.02
3-202     95.99
3-301     95.03
3-302     95.03
3-303     95.03
3-304     95.99
4-601     151.01
4-602     151.02
4-603     151.03
4-604     151.04
4-605     151.05
4-606     151.06
4-607     151.07
4-608     151.08
4-609     151.99
4-610     151.09
4-701     152.01
4-702     152.02
4-703     152.03
4-704     152.04
4-705     152.05
4-706     152.06
4-707     152.07
4-708     152.08
4-709     152.09
4-710     152.10
4-711     152.11
4-712     152.12
4-713     152.25
4-714     152.25
4-715     152.26
4-716     152.27
4-717     152.40
4-718     152.41
4-719     152.42
4-720     152.43
4-721     152.44
5-101     111.01
5-102     111.02
5-103     111.03
5-104     111.99
6-101     131.01
6-102     131.02
6-103     131.99
6-201     90.01
6-202     90.02
6-203     90.03
6-204     90.03
6-205     90.03
6-206     90.04
6-207     90.05
6-208     90.99
6-209     90.06
6-301     91.01
6-302     91.02
6-303     91.03
6-304     91.99
6-401     92.01
6-402     92.02
6-403     92.03
6-404     92.04
6-405     92.05
6-406     92.06
6-407     92.99
6-501     93.01
6-502     93.02
6-503     93.99
6-701     132.01
6-702     132.02
6-703     132.03
6-704     132.04
6-705     132.05
6-706     132.06
6-707     132.07
6-708     132.99
6-801     94.01
6-802     94.02
6-803     94.03
6-804     94.04
6-805     94.05
6-806     94.06
6-807     94.07
6-808     94.08
6-809     94.09
6-810     94.10
6-811     94.11
6-812     94.12
6-813     94.13
6-814     94.14
6-815     94.99
7-101     156.01
7-102     156.02
7-103     156.02
7-104     156.03
7-105     156.04
7-106     156.05
7-107     156.05
7-108     156.06
7-109     156.07
7-110     156.08
7-111     156.09
7-112     156.10
7-113     156.11
8-101     70.01
8-102     70.02
8-103     70.03
8-104     70.04;
          70.05
8-105     70.06
8-106     70.05
8-107     70.07
8-108     70.08
8-109     70.99
8-401     71.01
8-402     71.02
8-403     71.03
8-404     71.04
8-405     71.05
8-406     71.99
8-501     72.15
8-502     72.16
8-503     72.17
8-504     72.99
9-101     157.003
9-102     157.004
9-103     157.005
9-201     157.006
9-301     157.020
9-302     157.021
9-303     157.022
9-304     157.023
9-305     157.024
9-306     157.025
9-307     157.026
9-401     157.040
9-402     157.041
9-403     157.042
9-404     157.043
9-405     157.044
9-406     157.045
9-407     157.046
9-501     157.060
9-502     157.061
9-503     157.062
9-504     157.063
9-505     157.064
9-506     157.065
9-601     157.080
9-602     157.081
9-603     157.082
9-604     157.083
9-605     157.084
9-606     157.085
9-701     157.100
9-702     157.101
9-703     157.102
9-704     157.103
9-705     157.104
9-706     157.105
9-707     157.106
9-708     157.107
9-709     157.108
9-710     157.109
9-711     157.110
9-712     157.111
9-801     157.125
9-802     157.126
9-803     157.127
9-804     157.128
9-901     157.140
9-902     157.141
9-1001    157.155
9-1002    157.156
9-1003    157.157
9-1101    157.170
9-1102    157.171
9-1103    157.172
9-1104    157.173
9-1201    157.185
9-1202    157.186
9-1203    157.187
9-1204    157.188
9-1205    157.189
9-1206    157.190
9-1207    157.191
9-1208    157.192
9-1209    157.193
9-1210    157.194
9-1301    157.205
9-1302    157.206
9-1303    157.207
9-1304    157.208
9-1305    157.209
9-1306    157.210
9-1307    157.211
9-1401    157.999
9-1402    157.999
9-1501    157.001
9-1601    157.002
          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
81-2     2-4-1981    30.04
81-5     3-26-1981   30.05
81-6     3-26-1981   30.05
                     131.01;
81-7     3-26-1981   131.02;
                     131.99
                     70.01—
81-9     4-9-1981    70.08;
                     70.99
81-10    4-9-1981    Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     91.01—
81-12    5-8-1981    91.03;
                     91.99
                     92.01—
81-13    5-8-1981    92.06;
                     92.99
                     111.01—
82-6     6-23-1982   111.03;
                     111.99
82-9     8-24-1982   156.01—
                     156.11
                     157.001—
                     157.006;
                     157.020—
                     157.026;
                     157.040—
                     157.046;
                     157.060—
                     157.065;
                     157.080—
                     157.085;
                     157.100—
83-4     10-18-1983  157.111;
                     157.125—
                     157.128;
                     157.140;
                     157.141;
                     157.155—
                     157.157;
                     157.170—
                     157.173;
                     157.205—
                     157.211;
                     157.999
83-10    12-22-1983  156.01—
                     156.11
                     93.01;
84-2     2-7-1984    93.02;
                     93.99
85-4     5-21-1985   95.01;
                     95.99
85-6     8-20-1985   30.02
                     152.01—
                     152.12;
88-1A    2-16-1988   152.25—
                     152.27;
                     152.40—
                     152.44
                     72.15—
96-7     1-21-1996   72.17;
                     72.99
96-4     8-13-1996   30.01
                     71.01—
97-4     3-18-1997   71.05;
                     71.99
97-7     6-17-1997   95.02;
                     95.99
98-3     8-11-1998   30.06
99-2     6-7-1999    157.100—
                     157.111
                     157.001;
99-4     8-17-1999   157.002;
                     157.006
99-10    10-19-1999  157.104
2000-7   - -2000     95.03;
                     95.99
2000-3   4-20-2000   95.02;
                     95.99
                     90.01—
2002-3   12-9-2002   90.06;
                     90.99
2002-5   12-9-2002   157.185—
                     157.194
                     158.01—
2003-2   2-17-2003   158.16;
                     158.99
                     151.01—
2003-4   2-17-2003   151.09;
                     151.99
                     132.01—
2003-8   8-18-2003   132.07;
                     132.99
2003-12  10-20-2003  156.01—
                     156.11
                     94.01—
2004-1   1-19-2004   94.14;
                     94.99
                     91.01—
2004-2   1-19-2004   91.03;
                     91.99
                     157.006;
2004-6   8-16-2004   157.040;
                     157.043;
                     157.046
2005-3   - -2005     TSO II
2005-1   1-17-2005   Ch. 73, Sch. II
2005-4   4-25-2005   TSO II
2005-5   8-15-2005   32.02
                     72.01—
2006-4   9-11-2006   72.04;
                     72.99
                     110.01—
2008-1   2-25-2008   110.06;
                     110.99
2008-4   9-9-2008    50.01—
                     50.03
2009-2   5-15-2009   TSO I
                     130.01—
2009-3   5-26-2009   130.07;
                     130.99
2009-4   5-26-2009   32.30—
                     32.36
                     153.01—
                     153.05;
                     153.20—
-        7-26-2010   153.26;
                     153.40—
                     153.46;
                     153.99
                     154.01—
                     154.07;
-        7-26-2010   154.20—
                     154.39;
                     154.99
                     155.01—
-        7-26-2010   155.09;
                     155.99
2011-2   4-25-2011   51.01—
                     51.08
2011-3   6-27-2011   31.01—
                     31.09
2011-6   9-26-2011   32.01
                     52.01—
2011-8   9-26-2011   52.14;
                     52.99
2012-5   9-24-2012   32.15—
                     32.17
2013-3   5-20-2013   71.15
2013-4   7-16-2013   90.01
2013-6   7-16-2013   72.18—
                     72.21
2014-1   1-21-2014   90.01
2014-4   4-15-2014   32.03
2014-6   7-15-2014   Adopting Ordinance
2014-9   10-21-2014  110.01;
                     110.03
2014-10  10-21-2014  70.20;
                     70.99
                     150.001,
                     150.002,
                     150.015—
                     150.020,
                     150.035—
                     150.038,
                     150.050,
                     150.051,
                     150.065—
                     150.068,
2015-3   5-7-2015    150.080—
                     150.083,
                     150.095—
                     150.101,
                     150.115—
                     150.134,
                     150.145—
                     150.150,
                     150.999,
                     Ch. 150, App. A,
                     B
2015-4   8-18-2015   33.01—
                     33.04
2015-7   10-27-2015  50.01,
                     50.02
2016-2   3-16-2016   96.01—
                     96.11
2016-4   5-17-2016   72.03
2016-7   9-8-2016    50.01
2016-8   9-8-2016    50.02;
                     53.01
2016-9   10-18-2016  53.01
                     52.01—
2016-10  10-18-2016  52.14;
                     52.99
2017-1   1-17-2017   72.18;
                     72.19
2017-7   9-5-2017    50.01
2017-12  11-13-2017  92.99
2018-3   3-20-2018   50.02;
                     51.04
2019-1   2-19-2019   157.046
2019-8   9-9-2019    70.21
2019-10  11-17-2019  150.099
2020-3   5-19-2020   150.116
2021-3   1-19-2021   54.01
2021-4   1-19-2021   54.02
                     52.01—
2021-11  11-16-2021  52.14;
                     52.99
2021-12  11-19-2021  30.04
2021-13  11-19-2021  53.01
2022-3   2-15-2022   50.01;
                     50.02
2022-5   4-19-2022   50.01;
                     50.02
                    
 
