PALMVIEW, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through December 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Ricardo M. Villarreal Mayor
Jose Luis Perez       Mayor Pro Tem, Place 2
                      
Councilmembers
Javier Ramirez        Place 1
Alexandra Flores      Place 3
Benito Hernandez      Place 4
Joel Garcia           Place 5
                      
Michael Leo           City Manager
                      
Eden Ramirez, Jr.     City Attorney
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2019-06-O
      AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF PALMVIEW,
TEXAS, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED
IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance of the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and of the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Texas empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinance not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, the Palmview City Council has authorized a general compilation,
revision and codification of the ordinances of the Political Subdivision of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date; now therefore
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PALMVIEW, TEXAS:
   1.   The general ordinance of the Political Subdivision as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Palmview, Texas".
   2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
      Title I.      General Provisions
      Title III.   Administration
      Title V.   Public Works
      Title VII.   Traffic Code
      Title IX.   General Regulations
      Title XI.   Business Regulations
      Title XIII.    General Offenses
      Title XV.   Land Use
   3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part in
such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Palmview City Council and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section 6,
and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
   6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality and shall take effect at the earliest date provided
by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED on this 9th day of July 2019.
                                             APPROVED:
                                             Ricardo M. Villarreal /s/
                                             Ricardo M. Villatteal, Mayor
                        (SEAL)
ATTEST:
Annette Villarreal /s/
Annette Villarreal, CMC, CPM
City Secretary
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Eric D. Flores  /s/
Eric D. Flores, City Attorney
CITY CHARTER
Adopted October 3, 2006
HOME RULE CHARTER
Section
Preamble
Article I. Incorporation; Form of Government; Boundaries
   
1.01   Incorporation
   
1.02   Form of government
   
1.03   Boundaries
Article II. Powers of the City
   
2.01   Powers of the City
   
2.02   Eminent domain
   
2.03   Alteration and extension of boundaries
   
2.04   Annexation procedures
   
2.05   Disannexation
Article III. City Council
   
3.01   General powers and duties
   
3.02   Qualifications
   
3.03   Composition; eligibility; election and terms
   
3.04   Mayor
   
3.05   Compensation; expenses
   
3.06   Prohibitions
   
3.07   Vacancies; forfeiture of office; filling of vacancies
   
3.08   Judge of qualifications
   
3.09   Investigations
   
3.10   Independent audit
   
3.11   Procedure
   
3.12   Action requiring an ordinance
   
3.13   Ordinances in general
   
3.14   Emergency ordinances
   
3.15   Codes of technical regulations
   
3.16   Authentication and recording; codification; printing
Article IV. City Administration
   
4.01   City Manager
   
4.02   Duties of the City Manager
   
4.03   City Secretary
   
4.04   City Attorney
   
4.05   Municipal Court
   
4.06   Bonds for City employees
Article V. Financial Procedures
   
5.01   Fiscal year
   
5.02   Submission of budget and budget message
   
5.03   Budget message
   
5.04   Budget
   
5.05   City Council action on budget
   
5.06   Budget amendments after adoption
   
5.07   Lapse of appropriations
   
5.08   Capital program
   
5.09   Public records
   
5.10   Purchase procedures
   
5.11   Accounting and reporting procedures
   
5.12   Authority to issue bonds
   
5.13   Authority to levy taxes
   
5.14   Collection of taxes
Article VI. Elections
   
6.01   Regular elections
   
6.02   Qualified voters
   
6.03   Regulations of elections
   
6.04   Filing for office
   
6.05   Election by majority
   
6.06   Prohibition
Article VII. Initiative; Referendum; and Recall
   
7.01   Initiative
   
7.02   Referendum by voters
   
7.03   Consideration by Council
   
7.04   Referendum by City Council
   
7.05   Submission to voters
   
7.06   Results of election
   
7.07   Publication of initiative and referendum ordinances
   
7.08   Recall
   
7.09   Form of recall petition
   
7.10   Public hearing on recall petition
   
7.11   Recall election
   
7.12   Ballots for recall election
   
7.13   Results of recall election
   
7.14   Limitation on recall
   
7.15   Failure of Council to call an election
   
7.16   Forms of petition
   
7.17   Amendment of petition
Article VIII. Franchises and Public Utilities
   
8.01   Power to grant franchise
   
8.02   Franchise extensions
   
8.03   Transfer of franchise
   
8.04   Option to purchase
   
8.05   Regulation of franchise
   
8.06   Franchise records
Article IX. General Provisions
   
9.01   Conflict of interest
   
9.02   Nepotism
   
9.03   Oath of office
   
9.04   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
9.05   Prohibition
   
9.06   Public records
   
9.07   Claims against the City
   
9.08   Liens; assignment; execution; and garnishment
   
9.09   Severability and translation
   
9.10   Charter amendment
Article X. Transitional Provisions
   
10.01   Officers and employees
   
10.02   Pending matters
   
10.03   Effect on existing law
   
10.04   Temporary ordinances
Article XI. Submission of Charter to Voters
PREAMBLE
We, the citizens of Palmview, Texas, in order to establish a home rule
municipal government, provide for the future progress of our City and obtain
more fully the benefits of local self-government, do hereby adopt this Home
Rule charter in accordance with the Statutes of the State of Texas; and do
hereby declare the residents of the City of Palmview in Hidalgo County, Texas,
living within the legally established boundaries of said City, to be a
political subdivision of the State of Texas, incorporated forever under the
name and style of the “City of Palmview” with such powers, rights and duties as
are herein provided.
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION; FORM OF GOVERNMENT; BOUNDARIES
SECTION 1.01 INCORPORATION.
   The inhabitants of the City of Palmview, in Hidalgo County, Texas, within
the corporate limits as now established or as hereafter established in the
manner prescribed by this Charter, shall continue to be a municipal body
politic and corporate in perpetuity, under the name of the “City of Palmview”.
SECTION 1.02 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The municipal government prescribed by this Charter shall be known as the
“Council-manager government”. Pursuant to its provisions and subject only to
the limitations imposed by the state of Texas constitution and by this Charter,
all powers of the City shall be vested in an elective City Council hereinafter
referred to as “the City Council”, which shall enact local legislation, adopt
budgets, determine policies appoint the City Secretary, the City Attorney, the
Judge of the Municipal Court, and employ the City Manager, who shall execute
the laws and administer the government of the City. All powers of the City
shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by this Charter, or if the manner
be not prescribed, then in such manner as may be prescribed by ordinance.
SECTION 1.03 BOUNDARIES.
   The bounds and limits of the City of Palmview are hereby established as now
constituted or as hereafter established through annexation or disannexation in
the manner prescribed by this Charter and the laws of the State of Texas.
ARTICLE II. POWERS OF THE CITY
SECTION 2.01 POWERS OF THE CITY.
   (A)   Powers of the City. The City of Palmview shall be a home rule city and
shall have the power to ordain and establish such acts, laws, rules,
regulations, resolutions, and ordinances not inconsistent with the Constitution
and laws of the State of Texas and of this Charter, and shall be required for
the government, interest, health, welfare and good order of said City and its
inhabitants. Under the name of the City of Palmview, it shall be known in law
and have succession and be capable of contracting and being contracted with,
and, being suing, impleading and being impleaded, answering and being answered
unto, in all courts and tribunals and in all amounts, whatsoever, subject to
the laws of the State of Texas, or which shall hereafter be passed.
   The City of Palmview shall have the power to take, hold, lease, grant,
purchase and convey such real property or mixed property or estate, situated
within, or without, the limits thereof, as the purpose of said corporation may
require and shall have and use a corporate seal, and change and renew the same
at pleasure.
   (B)   Rights Reserved. All suits, taxes, penalties, fines, forfeitures and
all other rights, claims and demands, of every kind and character, which have
accrued under the laws in favor of said City, heretofore in force governing the
same, shall belong to and vest in said City and shall not abate by reason of
the adoption of this Charter, and shall be prosecuted and collected for the use
and the benefit of said City of Palmview and shall not be in any manner
affected by the taking effect of this Charter; but as to all of such rights,
the laws under which they shall have accrued, shall be deemed to be in full
force and effect.
   (C)   Local Self-Government. The City of Palmview shall possess and may
exercise the full power of local self-government. It may hold, by gift, deed,
devise, or otherwise any character of property, including any charitable or
trust fund and subject to and within the limits of superior law may act in
perpetual succession as a body politic.
   (D)   Other Powers. For greater certainty, the following are hereby
especially enumerated and referred to as being among the other powers which are
hereby conferred upon and which may be exercised by the City of Palmview, to
wit:
      1.   all powers conferred upon cities and towns by Title 22, Revised
Civil Statutes of Texas, 1911, except as may hereafter be denied, limited, or
extended, are hereby conferred upon the City of Palmview as fully and
completely as if such powers where herein separately enumerated;
      2.   all powers conferred upon home rule cities by Chpt. 13, Title 28,
Art. 1175, Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, 1925, except as may hereinafter be
denied, limited or extended, are hereby conferred upon the City of Palmview as
fully and completely as if such powers where herein separately enumerated; and,
      3.   all powers, privileges and immunities conferred upon cities of more
than five thousand (5,000) inhabitants by Section 4, Chpt. 147, Acts of the
33rd Legislature, General Laws Regular Session, at page 310 to 316, entitled,
“An Act Authorizing Cities Having More Than Five Thousand Inhabitants, By A
Majority Vote Of The Qualified Voters Of Said City, And An Election Held For
The Purpose To Adopt And Amend Their Charters: etc.”, and such powers are
hereby conferred upon the City of Palmview as fully and completely as if each
of said mentioned powers where herein separately enumerated; but enumeration of
special powers herein, or in the statutes referred to, shall not be held, or
construed to preclude the City from exercising all powers of local government
not inhibited by the Constitution and the laws of the State of Texas, or by
special limitations in this Charter contained, the purpose of this Charter
being to enlarge upon the power extended by the general laws of cities
incorporated thereunder, and to secure to the City of Palmview, all the powers
conferred by the Constitution and the laws of this State upon cities having
more than five thousand (5,000) inhabitants.
SECTION 2.02 EMINENT DOMAIN.
   The City shall have the full power and right to exercise the power of
eminent domain, when necessary to the conduct of public affairs, within the
authority and scope conferred by this Charter or by the Constitution and laws
of the State of Texas. Such authority shall include the obligation to pay
adequate compensation and the right to take the fee in land so condemned and to
institute condemnation proceedings for municipal or public purposes even though
not specifically enumerated herein.
SECTION 2.03 ALTERATION AND EXTENSION OF BOUNDARIES.
   The City shall have the power to provide for the alteration and extension of
its boundaries, and to annex or detach territories pursuant to the authority
conferred by the Constitution and laws of the State of Texas. Annexation is
restricted to area adjacent to the City and within the City’s extra-territorial
jurisdiction, except where the City owns the area to be annexed. Annexation may
be initiated by either of the following methods:
   (A)   by petition of a majority of the qualified voters who are inhabitants
of an area defined by the City Council; or if there are no qualified voters who
are inhabitants of the area, by petition of persons owning a majority of the
land in the area; or
   (B)   by action of the City Council, with or without the consent of the
inhabitants or owners of the territory to be annexed.
SECTION 2.04 ANNEXATION PROCEDURES.
   When annexation is either by petition, or by action of the City Council, the
City shall follow the procedures and requirements as laid out in Chpt. 43,
Texas Local Government Code and any other applicable state law.
SECTION 2.05 DISANNEXATION.
   (A)   If the City fails to provide the services specified in the service
plan within the time period specified in the service plan or required by state
law, a majority of the qualified voters residing within the annexed area, or a
majority of the landowners in the annexed area may petition the City Council to
be disannexed as laid out in Chpt. 43, Texas Local Government Code and any
other applicable state law.
   (B)   If the petition is refused by the City Council, or not acted upon
within sixty (60) days, the petitioners may file suit for disannexation in the
District Court.
   (C)   The petition for disannexation shall meet the requirements as laid out
under the Chpt. 43, Texas Local Government Code and any other applicable state
law. The City Council may, by ordinance, disannex territory within the City.
Any territory so detached shall be liable for it’s pro rata share of any debts
incurred while it was a part of the City, and the City shall continue to levy
and collect taxes on the property until such indebtedness has been discharged.
Disannexation actions are subject only to such procedural roles and regulations
as prescribed by Chpt. 43, Texas Local Government Code, and any other
applicable state statute.
ARTICLE III. CITY COUNCIL
SECTION 3.01 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   All powers of the City shall be vested in the City Council, except as
otherwise provided by law or this Charter and the City Council shall provide
for the exercise thereof and for the performance of all duties and obligations
imposed on the City by law. Without limitation of the foregoing and among the
other powers that may be exercised by the Council, the following are hereby
enumerated for greater certainty:
   1.   Abolish or consolidate such offices, departments, and agencies of the
City government as it may deem to be to the best interest of the City, and may
divide the administration of any such departments as it may deem advisable; may
create new departments, and may discontinue any offices or departments at its
discretion, except those specifically established by this Charter.
   2.   Adopt the budget of the City.
   3.   Authorize the issuance of bonds by a bond ordinance.
   4.   Inquire into the conduct of any office, department or agency of the
City and make investigations as to municipal affairs.
   5.   Establish operating policy.
   6.   Adopt and modify the zoning plan and the building codes of the City.
   7.   Adopt and modify the official map of the City.
SECTION 3.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Each of the five (5) Council members and the Mayor shall meet the following
qualifications:
   1.   Be a registered voter of the City;
   2.   Have resided in the City for at least twelve (12) months preceding the
election at which they are candidates;
   3.   Continue residency in the City during the term of office;
   4.   Not hold more than one public elective office;
   5.   Not hold an appointed office of the City excluding boards, committees,
and commissions;
   6.   Be at least 21 years of age;
   7.   Not have been determined mentally incompetent by a final judgment of a
court; and
   8.   Not have been convicted, whether final for appeal purposes or not, of a
felony from which the person has not been pardoned or otherwise released from
the resulting disabilities.
   A member of the Council ceasing to possess any of the qualifications
specified in this section or any other section of this Charter, or convicted of
a felony while in office, shall immediately forfeit his office.
SECTION 3.03 COMPOSITION; ELIGIBILITY; ELECTION AND TERMS.
   (A)   Composition. There shall be a City Council composed of the Mayor and
four (4) Council members after the May 2024 elections; previously five (5)
Council members with Place 5 being eliminated post-May 2024 elections. The
Council members shall be elected by the voters of the City at large, by place,
and the Mayor shall be elected as provided in subsection (C) of this Section
and in Section 3.03.
   (B)   Eligibility. Only registered voters of the City shall be eligible to
hold the office of Council member or Mayor. No person shall be eligible for the
office of Mayor or Council member, who shall hold any other public office or
emolument, or shall be interested in the profits of the emoluments of any
contract job, work or service for the City, or interested in the sale to the
City of any supplies, equipment, material, or articles purchased. No Mayor or
Council member shall hold any other public office, except that of Notary
Public, member of National Guard or any Military Reserve, or a retired member
of the Armed Services.
   (C)   Election and Terms. Council members shall be elected to serve
staggered four (4) year terms in municipal elections held every even year. At
the first election under this Charter, candidates receiving a majority of votes
for Place 1 and Place 3. City Council seats shall be elected to serve four (4)
year terms. At the second municipal election held under this Charter,
candidates receiving a majority of votes for Mayor, Place 2, and Place 4 shall
be elected to serve four (4) year terms.
(Ord. 2023-15-O, passed 11-15-2023)
SECTION 3.04 MAYOR.
   A Mayor shall be elected to a four (4) year term. The next Mayoral election
after the approval of this charter shall be conducted during the regular
election designated in May, 2010. Thereafter, a Mayoral election shall take
place every four (4) years during the May regular election as designated by the
State. The Mayor shall be a member of the City Council and shall preside at
meetings of the City Council, represent the City in intergovernmental
relationships, appoint, with the advice and consent of the City Council,
members of citizen advisory boards and commissions, to include, but not limited
to a Zoning Commission, a Planning Commission, and a Board of Adjustments,
present an annual State of the City message, and perform other duties specified
by the City Council.
   The Mayor shall be recognized as head of the City government for all
ceremonial purposes and by the Governor for purposes of military law but shall
have no administrative duties. The City Council shall elect one (1) of its
members as Mayor Pro-Tem who shall perform the duties of Mayor in the absence
or temporary inability of the Mayor to perform the duties of office, and who
shall for such time be vested with all of the powers belonging to the Mayor. In
the case of the absence of both the Mayor and the Mayor Pro-Tem, the remaining
Council members shall select one (1) of their members to act in the place of
the Mayor. The Mayor Pro-Tem shall be selected after each election and shall
serve for a period to be determined by the City Council. The Mayor Pro-Tem is
subject to removal as Mayor Pro-Tem at any time by a majority vote of the
entire City Council.
SECTION 3.05 COMPENSATION; EXPENSES.
   The Mayor shall be compensated in the amount of $75 per the regularly
scheduled monthly meeting attended and each of the other Council Members shall
be compensated in the amount of $50 per the regularly scheduled monthly meeting
attended. Compensation may be increased by ordinance passed by a vote of the
Mayor and all five (5) City Council Members.
   The Mayor and Council Members shall receive no compensation for other non-
scheduled monthly meetings. The Mayor and City Council Members may receive
reimbursement for necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties of office, according to policies to be determined by the Council.
SECTION 3.06 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Holding Other Office. No Councilmember shall hold any other city
office or employment during the terms for which the member was elected to the
City Council. No former Councilmember shall hold any compensated appointive
office or employment with the City until one (1) year after the expiration of
the term for which the member was elected to the City Council. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the City Council from selecting any
current or former Councilmember to represent the City on the governing board of
any regional or other intergovernmental agency.
   (B)   Appointments and Removals. Neither the City Council nor any of its
members shall in any manner control or demand the appointment or removal of any
City administrative officer or employee whom the City Manager or any
subordinate of the City Manager is empowered to appoint, but the City Council
may express its views and fully and freely discuss with the City Manager
anything pertaining to appointment and removal of such officers and employees.
   (C)   Interference with Administration. Except for the purpose of inquiries
and investigations under Section
3.08, the City Council or its members shall deal with City officers and
employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the City Manager
solely through the City Manager, and neither the City Council nor its members
shall give orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or
privately.
SECTION 3.07 VACANCIES; FORFEITURE OF OFFICE; FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. The office of a Councilmember or Mayor shall become vacant
upon the death, resignation, forfeiture of office, or removal from office in
any manner authorized by law.
   (B)   Forfeiture of Office. A Councilmember, or Mayor, shall forfeit that
office if the Councilmember or Mayor:
      1.   lacks at any time during the term of office for which elected any
qualification for the office prescribed by the Charter or by law,
      2.   violates any express prohibition of this Charter,
      3.   is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, or
      4.   fails to attend, three (3) consecutive regular meetings of the City
Council without being excused by the Council.
   (C)   Filling of Vacancies. A vacancy on the City Council shall be filled by
a majority vote in an election called to fill said vacancy. The election shall
be held no later than one hundred-twenty (120) days after such vacancy occurs
as per Art. II, Section II of the Texas Constitution.
SECTION 3.08 JUDGE OF QUALIFICATIONS.
   The City Council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of
its members and of the grounds for forfeiture of their office. The City Council
shall have the power to set additional standards of conduct for its members
beyond those specified in the Charter and may provide for such penalties as it
deems appropriate, including forfeiture of office. In order to exercise these
powers, the City Council shall have power to subpoena witnesses, administer
oaths and require the production of evidence. A member charged with conduct
constituting grounds for forfeiture of office shall be entitled to a public
hearing on demand, and notice of such hearing shall be published in one (1) or
more newspapers of general circulation in the City at least one (1) week in
advance of the hearing. Decisions made by the City Council under this section
shall be subject to judicial review.
SECTION 3.09 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The City Council may make investigations into the affairs of the City and
the conduct of any City department, office or agency and for this purpose may
subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and require the production
of evidence. Failure or refusal to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise
of these powers by the City Council shall be a Class C misdemeanor and
punishable by a fine not to exceed the amount authorized by law.
SECTION 3.10 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   The City Council shall provide for an independent annual audit of all City
accounts and may provide for more frequent audits as it deems necessary. Such
audits shall be made by a certified public accountant or firm of such
accountants who have no personal interest, direct or indirect, in the fiscal
affairs of the City government or any of its officers. The City Council may,
without requiring competitive bids, designate such, accountant, or firm
annually or for a period not exceeding three (3) years, but the designation for
any particular fiscal year shall be made no later than thirty (30) days after
the beginning of such fiscal year. If the state makes such an audit, the City
Council may accept it as satisfying the requirements of this section.
SECTION 3.11 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Meetings. The City Council shall meet regularly at least once in every
month at such times and places as the City Council may prescribe by rule.
Special meetings may be held on the call of the Mayor or of three (3) or more
Councilmembers and, whenever practicable, upon no less than twelve (12) hours
notice to each member of the Council. All meetings of the City Council shall be
open to the public, except as allowed by state law.
   (B)   Rules and Journal. The City Council shall determine its own rules and
order of business and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings.
This journal shall be a public record except as allowed by state law.
   (C)   Quorum. After the May 2024 elections, a quorum shall consist of three
(3) members: Mayor and two (2) Council members, or three (3) Council members. A
quorum of the City Council must be present at the start of each City Council
meeting. Should the City Council at any meeting lose a quorum, the fact may be
raised by any City Council member, at which time the City Council may continue
its meeting, however, no action or ordinance requiring a vote may be taken or
passed. Voting, except on procedural motions, shall be by roll call and the
ayes and nays shall be recorded in the journal. No action of the City Council
shall be valid or binding unless adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority
of the quorum of the City Council present and voting. The Mayor may vote on all
matters.
(Ord. 2023-15-O, passed 11-15-2023)
SECTION 3.12 ACTION REQUIRING AN ORDINANCE.
   In addition to other acts required by law or by specific provision of this
Charter to be done by ordinance, those acts of the City Council shall be by
ordinance which:
   1.   Adopt or amend an administrative code or establish, alter, or abolish
any City department, or agency;
   2.   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or regulation
for violation of which a fine or other penalty is imposed;
   3.   Levy taxes;
   4.   Grant, renew or extend a franchise;
   5.   Regulate the rate charged for its services by a public utility;
   6.   Authorize the borrowing of money;
   7.   Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any lands of
the City;
   8.   Regulate land use and development;
   9.   Amend or repeal any ordinance previously adopted; and,
   10.   Adopt an annual budget.
   Acts other than those referred to in the preceding sentence may be done
either by ordinance or by resolution.
SECTION 3.13 ORDINANCES IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Form. Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in
the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain more than one
(1) subject which shall be clearly expressed in its title. The enacting clause
shall read, “Be it ordained by the City Council of The City of Palmview,
Texas...” Any ordinance which repeals or amends an existing ordinance or part
of the City code shall set out in full the ordinance, sections or subsections
to be repealed or amended, and shall indicate matters to be omitted by
enclosing it in brackets with strikeout type, and shall indicate new matters by
underscoring or by italics.
   (B)   Procedure. An ordinance may be introduced by any member of the City
Council at any regular or special meeting of the City Council. Upon,
introduction of any ordinance, the City Secretary shall distribute a copy to
each Councilmember and to the City Manager, shall file a reasonable number of
copies in the office of the City Secretary and such other public places as the
City Council may designate. As soon as practicable after adoption, the City
Secretary shall have the ordinance and a notice of its adoption published and
available at a reasonable price.
   (C)   Effective Date. Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, every
adopted ordinance shall become effective at the expiration of fifteen (15) days
after adoption or at any later date specified therein.
   (D)   Publication of Ordinance. The City may publish the ordinance, or
caption of the ordinance that summarizes the purpose of the ordinance and any
penalty for violating the ordinance. The ordinance may be published at least
once in the municipality’s official newspaper. The publication shall notify
citizens where copies of the ordinance have been filed and the times when they
are available for public inspection and purchase.
SECTION 3.14 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property or the public
peace, the City Council may adopt one (1) or more emergency ordinances, but
such ordinances may not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise,
regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services or authorize
the borrowing of money. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form
and manner prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly
designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting
clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in
clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without
amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the
affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum present and voting shall be
required for adoption. After its adoption the ordinance shall be published and
printed as prescribed for other adopted ordinances. It shall become effective
upon adoption or such later time as it may specify.
SECTION 3.15 CODES OF TECHNICAL REGULATIONS.
   The City Council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by
reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements
governing such an adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances
generally except that:
   1.   The requirements of Section
3.13 for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed
to include copies of the code of technical regulations as well as of the
adopting ordinance; and,
   2.   A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations as well as of the
adopting ordinances shall be authenticated and recorded by the City Secretary
pursuant to Section
3.16(A).
   Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available
by the City Secretary for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
SECTION 3.16 AUTHENTICATION AND RECORDING; CODIFICATION; PRINTING.
   (A)   Authentication and Recording. The City Secretary shall authenticate by
signing and shall record in full, in a properly indexed book kept for that
purpose, all ordinances and resolutions adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   Codification. Within three (3) years after adoption of this Charter
and at least every ten (10) years thereafter, the City Council shall provide
for the preparation of a general codification of all City ordinances and
resolutions having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall
be adopted by the City Council by ordinance and shall be published promptly in
bound or loose-leaf form, together with this Charter and any amendments
thereto, pertinent provisions of the constitution and other laws of the State
of Texas, and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and
regulations as the City Council may specify. This compilation shall be known
and cited officially as the PALMVIEW CITY CODE. Copies of the code shall be
furnished to City officers, placed in libraries and public offices for free
public reference and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable
price fixed by the City Council.
   (C)   Printing of Ordinances and Resolutions. The City Council shall cause
each ordinance and resolution having the force and effect of law and each
amendment to this Charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and
the printed ordinances, resolutions and Charter amendments shall be distributed
or sold to the public at reasonable prices as fixed by the City Council.
Following publication of the first PALMVIEW CITY CODE and at all times
thereafter, the ordinances, resolutions and Charter amendments shall be printed
in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be
suitable in form for integration therein.
   The City Council shall make such further arrangements as it deems desirable
with respect to reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or
additions to the provisions of the constitution and other laws of the State of
Texas, or the codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations
included in the code.
ARTICLE IV. CITY ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 4.01 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The City Council shall upon approval of a majority of the City Council
appoint a City Manager who shall be the chief administrative and executive
officer of the City, and shall be responsible to the City Council for the
administration of the affairs of the City.
   (B)   The City Manager shall be chosen by the City Council solely on the
basis of executive and administrative training, experience, and ability.
   (C)   The City Manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term and receive
compensation as may be fixed by the City Council.
   (D)   No member of the City Council shall, during the time for which he or
she is not elected, nor for one (1) year thereafter, be appointed City Manager.
   (E)   The City Manager serves at the pleasure of the City Council. The City
Council may elect to negotiate and by majority vote provide the City Manager an
employment contract. The City Council may by affirmative vote of the majority
of the full City Council adopt a resolution removing the City Manager from
office during a regular meeting. The action of the City Council in removing the
City Manager shall be final, it being the intention of this Charter to vest all
authority and fix all responsibility for such removal in the City Council.
   (F)   The City Manager may, by letter filed with the City Secretary and
subject to approval by the City Council, designate a qualified City
administrative officer to be Acting City Manager to serve during the temporary
absence or disability of the City Manager. The Acting City Manager serves at
the pleasure of the City Council. The City Council may remove an Acting City
Manager at any time.
(Ord. 2023-15-O, passed 11-15-2023)
SECTION 4.02 DUTIES OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall:
   (A)   with the advice and consent of the City Council, appoint and remove
all department heads of the City, except as otherwise provided in this Charter
or by ordinance;
   (B)   with the advice and consent of the City Council, determine proper and
just compensation for all department heads;
   (C)   attend all meetings of the City Council, taking part in discussion but
having no vote, and shall be notified of all special meetings of the City
Council;
   (D)   see that all laws, provisions of this Charter, and acts of the City
Council, subject to enforcement by the City Manager or by officers subject to
his or her direction and supervision, are faithfully executed;
   (E)   prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to the City
Council;
   (F)   submit to the City Council and make available to the public a complete
report on the finances and administrative activities of the City as of the end
of each fiscal year;
   (G)   keep the City Council fully advised as to the financial condition and
future needs of the City and make such recommendations to the City Council
concerning the affairs of the City;
   (H)   make such other reports as the City Council may require concerning the
operations of the City departments, offices, and agencies subject to his or her
direction and supervision; and,
   (I)   perform such other duties as are specified in the Charter or may be
required by the City Council or the laws of the State of Texas.
SECTION 4.03 CITY SECRETARY.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint a City Secretary who shall report
administratively to the City Manager, but may be removed from office only with
the consent of the City Council.
   (B)   The duties of the City Secretary shall be to:
      1.   prepare and post notice of Council meetings;
      2.   keep the minutes of proceedings of Council meetings;
      3.   authenticate by signature and record in full, in a book kept and
indexed for that purpose, all ordinances and resolutions passed by the City
Council;
      4.   hold and maintain the City Seal and affix the Seal to all
instruments requiring it; and,
      5.   perform such other duties as may be specified by the City Council,
City Manager, this Charter, or the laws of the State of Texas.
SECTION 4.04 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Council may appoint an attorney, licensed to practice law in
the State of Texas, as City Attorney. The City Attorney shall serve at the will
of the City Council and be entitled to compensation as established by the City
Council.
   (B)   The duties of the City Attorney shall be to:
      1.   serve as legal advisor to the City Council, to all offices,
departments, and agencies of the City, and to all officers and employees of the
City as authorized by the City Manager;
      2.   perform all services incident to his or her position as may be
required by statute, this Charter, ordinances, or as directed by the City
Council.
   (C)   The City Council may retain special counsel at any time it deems such
action appropriate or necessary.
SECTION 4.05 MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a court designated the Municipal Court of
the City of Palmview. The Court shall consist of one (1) Presiding Judge and
two (2) Associate Judges. At least one Municipal Court Judge must be an
attorney licensed to practice by the State Bar of Texas. Collectively referred
to as Judge.
   (B)   The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction within the territorial
limits of the City for the trial of misdemeanor offenses with all powers and
duties granted by the laws of the State of Texas.
   (C)   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall be nominated by the Mayor and
approved by the City Council for a term of four (4) years to run concurrently
with the term of office of the Mayor. Compensation shall be set by the City
Council and may not be reduced during the term of office for which the Judge
was appointed.
   (D)   In the absence or disability of the Judge, the City Council shall
appoint an interim judge to preside over the Municipal Court.
   (E)   All costs and fines collected by the Municipal Court shall be paid to
the City treasury for the use and benefit of the City.
(Ord. 2023-15-O, passed 11-15-2023)
SECTION 4.06 BONDS FOR CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The City Council shall require bonds of all municipal officers and employees
who receive or pay out any monies of the City. The amount of such bonds shall
be determined by the City Council and the cost thereof shall be borne by the
City.
ARTICLE V. FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
SECTION 5.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the City shall be established by ordinance.
SECTION 5.02 SUBMISSION OF BUDGET AND BUDGET MESSAGE.
   Not later than sixty (60) days prior to the close of the fiscal year, the
City Manager shall submit to the City Council a budget for the ensuing fiscal
year and an accompanying message.
SECTION 5.03 BUDGET MESSAGE.
   The City Manager’s message shall explain the budget both in fiscal terms and
in terms of the work programs. It shall:
   1.   outline the proposed financial policies of the City for the ensuing
fiscal year;
   2.   describe the important features of the budget;
   3.   indicate any major changes from the current year in financial policies,
expenditures, and revenues, and the reasons for such changes;
   4.   summarize the City’s debt position; and,
   5.   include such other material as the City Manager deems desirable.
SECTION 5.04 BUDGET.
   (A)   The budget shall provide a complete financial plan of all City funds
and activities for the ensuing fiscal year and, except as required by law or
this Charter, shall be in such form as the City Manager deems desirable or the
City Council may require.
   (B)   In organizing the budget, the City Manager shall utilize the most
feasible combination of expenditure classifications by fund, organization unit,
program, purpose or activity and object. It shall begin with a clear general
summary of its contents and shall show in detail:
      1.   all estimated income, indicating the proposed property tax levy, and
all proposed expenditures, including debt service, for the ensuing fiscal year;
      2.   comparative figures for actual and estimated income and expenditures
of the current fiscal year;
      3.   actual income and expenditures of the preceding fiscal year; and,
      4.   any other item(s) required by state law to be included in the
budget.
   (C)   The budget shall indicate in separate sections:
      1.   estimated revenues for operations during the ensuing fiscal year,
detailed by source;
      2.   proposed expenditures for current operations during the ensuing
fiscal year, detailed by offices, departments, and agencies in terms of their
respective work programs;
      3.   proposed capital expenditures during the ensuing fiscal year,
detailed by offices, departments, and agencies when practicable, and the
proposed method of financing each capital expenditure; and,
      4.   anticipated net surplus or deficits for the ensuing fiscal year of
each enterprise owned or operated by the City and the proposed method of
financing each capital expenditure.
   (D)   Subsidiary budgets for each enterprise, giving detailed income and
expenditures information, shall be established as appendices to the budget.
   (E)   The total of proposed expenditures shall not exceed the total of
estimated income plus any accumulated surplus.
SECTION 5.05 CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON BUDGET.
   (A)   The City Council shall publish in one (1) or more newspapers of
general circulation in the City the general summary of the budget and a notice
stating:
      1.   the times and places where copies of the message and budge: are
available for inspection by the public; and,
      2.   the time and place for a public hearing on the budget.
   (B)   After the public hearing, the City Council may adopt the budget with
or without amendments. In amending the budget, it may add or increase programs
or amounts and may delete or decrease any program or amounts, except
expenditures required by law or for debt service provided that no amendment to
the budget shall increase the authorized expenditures to an amount greater than
the total of estimated income plus any accumulated surplus.
   (C)   The City Council shall adopt the budget on or before the twenty-ninth
(29th) day of the twelfth (12th) month of the fiscal year currently ending. If
the Council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated
for current operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for
the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items in it
prorated accordingly, until such time as the City Council adopts a budget for
the ensuing fiscal year.
   (D)   Adoption of the budget shall constitute appropriation of the amounts
specified therein as expenditures from the funds indicated and shall constitute
a levy of the property tax therein proposed, provided that in no event shall
such levy exceed the legal limit provided by the laws and Constitution of the
State of Texas.
(Ord. 2023-15-O, passed 11-15-2023)
SECTION 5.06 BUDGET AMENDMENTS AFTER ADOPTION.
   (A)   If during the fiscal year the City Manager certifies that there are
revenues available for appropriation in excess of those estimated in the
budget, the City Council by ordinance may make supplemental appropriations for
the year up to the amount of the excess.
   (B)   To meet a public emergency, as defined by state law, the City Council
may make emergency appropriations. Such appropriations may be made by emergency
ordinance in accordance with the provisions of Article III, Section
3.13 of this Charter. To the extent that, there are no available unappropriated
revenues to meet such appropriations, the City Council may by emergency
ordinance authorize the issuance of emergency notes, which may be renewed from
time to time. The emergency notes and renewal of those notes during any fiscal
year shall be paid not later than the last day of the current fiscal year.
   (C)   If at any time during the fiscal year it appears probable to the City
Manager that the revenues available will be insufficient to meet the amount
appropriated, he shall report to the City Council without delay, indicating the
estimated amount of the deficit, any remedial action taken, and recommendations
as to any other steps to be taken. The City Council shall then take such
further action as it deems necessary to prevent or minimize any deficit and for
that purpose it may by ordinance reduce one (1) or more appropriations.
   (D)   At any time during the fiscal year the City Manager may transfer part
or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance among programs within a
department, office, or agency, but no funds may be transferred to increase a
salary appropriation without the approval of the City Council. Upon written
request by the City Manager, the City Council may by ordinance transfer part or
all of any unencumbered appropriation balance from one department, office, or
agency to another.
   (E)   No appropriations for debt service may be reduced or transferred, and
no appropriation may be reduced below any amount required by law to be
appropriated or by more than the amount of the unencumbered balance thereof.
The supplemental and emergency appropriations and reduction or transfer of
appropriations authorized by this Section may be made effective immediately
upon adoption.
SECTION 5.07 LAPSE OF APPROPRIATIONS.
   Every appropriation, except an appropriation for a capital expenditure,
shall lapse at the close of the fiscal year to the extent, that it has not been
expended or encumbered. An appropriation for a capital expenditure shall
continue until the purpose of any such appropriation shall be deemed abandoned
or completed.
SECTION 5.08 CAPITAL PROGRAM.
   (A)   The City Manager shall prepare and submit to the City Council a five
(5) year capital program at least three (3) months prior to the final date for
submission of the annual budget.
   (B)   The capital program shall include:
      1.   a clear general summary of its contents;
      2.   a list of all capital improvements which are proposed to be
undertaken during the five (5) fiscal years next ensuing, with appropriate
supporting information as to the necessity for such improvements;
      3.   cost estimates, methods of financing, and recommended time schedules
for each such improvement; and,
      4.   the estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining the
facilities to be constructed or acquired.
   (C)   The capital program shall be revised and extended each year with
regard to capital improvements still pending or in process of construction or
acquisition.
SECTION 5.09 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Copies of the budget as adopted shall be public records and shall be
available to the public at suitable places in the City.
SECTION 5.10 PURCHASE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No payment shall be made or obligation incurred against any allotment
or appropriation except in accordance with appropriation duly made and unless
the City Manager, or the City Manager’s designee first certifies that there is
a sufficient unencumbered balance in such allotment or appropriation and that
sufficient funds therefrom are or will be available to cover the claim or meet
the obligation when it becomes due and payable.
   (B)   Any authorization of payment or incurring of obligation in violation
of the provisions of this Charter shall be void and any payment so made shall
be illegal. Such action shall be cause for removal of any elected or appointed
officer who knowingly authorized or made such payment or incurred such
obligation, and he or she shall also be liable to the City for any amount so
paid.
   (C)   All purchases made and contracts executed by the City shall be in
accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and laws of the State of
Texas.
SECTION 5.11 ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING PROCEDURES.
   The City shall adopt an accounting manual prepared by competent authority
which shall provide procedures to be followed in the detail recording and
reporting of financial transactions. Changes in such accounting manual may be
made from time to time as necessary, by the City Manager, providing such
changes do not weaken controls as may be advised by the City auditor.
Accounting controls shall be adequate to protect the assets of the City, but
shall not be restrictive beyond the value of the assets being controlled.
SECTION 5.12 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE BONDS.
   The City Council shall have the power and authority to issue all tax bonds,
revenue bonds, funding and refunding bonds, warrants, time warrants,
certificates of obligation, notes, and other evidence of obligation as may be
authorized by the Constitution and laws of the State of Texas.
SECTION 5.13 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAXES.
   The City may levy taxes of any type and amount not prohibited by the laws
and Constitution of the State of Texas or other provisions of this Charter.
SECTION 5.14 COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   (A)   The City Manager may, subject to approval by a majority of the full
City Council, appoint an individual as City Tax Collector to collect taxes. The
City Tax Collector shall obtain a fidelity bond. The amount of such bond shall
be set by the City Council, but shall not be less than the amount of tax
collections under his or her control at any one time.
   (B)   All taxes due the City shall be payable at the office of the
designated City Tax Collector or Assessor-Collector.
   (C)   Due date of the taxes to be paid without penalty and the penalty and
interest charged for late payment shall be in accordance with the Texas
Property Tax Code and any other applicable laws of the State of Texas.
ARTICLE VI. ELECTIONS
SECTION 6.01 REGULAR ELECTIONS.
   City elections shall be held on the first Saturday in May, or on the closest
date to the first Saturday in May permitted by the laws of the State of Texas,
the Constitution, and this Charter.
SECTION 6.02 QUALIFIED VOTERS.
   All citizens qualified by the Constitution and laws of the State of Texas to
vote in the City shall be qualified voters of the City.
SECTION 6.03 REGULATIONS OF ELECTIONS.
   All municipal elections shall be held in accordance with the provisions of
the general laws of the State of Texas regulating the holding of elections. The
City Council shall have the power to make rules and regulations not
inconsistent with this Charter or the general laws of this state for the
conduct of elections or for the prevention of frauds in elections.
SECTION 6.04 FILING FOR OFFICE.
   (A)   Any qualified citizen who desires to become a candidate for the City
office shall file with the City Secretary a signed application for his or her
name to appear on the ballot. This application must be filed in accordance with
the laws of the State of Texas.
   (B)   In addition to all general requirements for application for a place on
the ballot as specified in the Texas Election Code, or any other requirements
specified in the laws or Constitution of the State of Texas, a candidate must
possess the following qualifications:
      1.   be a qualified voter of the City;
      2.   reside within the corporate limits of the City; and
      3.   shall be a resident of the City for a period of one (1) year;
      4.   shall be 21 years of age or older at the time of filing for office;
      5.   shall NOT have been convicted of any felony in any state or country
jurisdiction.
   (C)   Any City employee or officer announcing their candidacy, or who in
fact becomes a candidate for an elected City office, must resign from said
employment or position immediately.
SECTION 6.05 ELECTION BY MAJORITY.
   Any candidate for office in a duly held municipal election receiving a
majority (over 50%) of the votes cast for the office for which he or she is a
candidate, shall be elected to such office. In the event no candidate receives
a majority, the Mayor shall, following the completion of the official count of
the ballots cast at said first election, issue a call for a run-off election to
be held on the next to the last Saturday in May, or on the third (3rd) Saturday
following the issuance of such call, at which election the ballots shall
contain the names of the two (2) candidates receiving the highest number of
votes in the first election.
SECTION 6.06 PROHIBITION.
   No person who holds any compensated, appointed City position shall make,
solicit, or receive any contribution for any candidate for an elected City
office, or take any part in the management, affairs, or political campaign of
such candidate, but he may exercise his/her rights as a citizen to express his
opinions and to cast his vote.
ARTICLE VII. INITIATIVE; REFERENDUM; AND RECALL
SECTION 7.01 INITIATIVE.
   (A)   The voters of this City shall have the power to propose any ordinance,
except an ordinance appropriating money or authorizing the levy of taxes, or
one repealing such an ordinance, and to adopt or reject the same at the polls.
   (B)   Any initiated ordinance may be submitted to the City Council by a
petition signed, registered and qualified voters of the City equal in number to
at least thirty (30) percent of the number of votes cast at the last regular
City election, or three hundred (300) whichever is greater. Said petition
signatures must meet the requirements as set out the Texas Election Code. The
City Secretary shall certify the petitions.
   (C)   Initiative petitions shall contain the full text of the proposed
ordinance.
   (D)   Such ordinances may be passed by the City Council without change, or
must be submitted to the voters at an election called for that purpose and held
in compliance with the Texas Election Code.
SECTION 7.02 REFERENDUM BY VOTERS.
   (A)   The voters of this City shall have the power to approve or reject at
the polls are ordinance passed by the Council except an ordinance appropriating
money, authorizing the levy of taxes, or authorizing the issuance of either tax
or revenue bonds, whether original or refunding.
   (B)   The petition for referendum shall require the same number and
qualification of signed as required by this Charter for an initiative petition.
Said petition signatures must meet the requirements as set out in the Texas
Election Code.
   (C)   A referendum petition must contain sufficient description of the
ordinance to positively identify it.
   (D)   A referendum petition must be filed with the City Secretary within
thirty (30) days after the final passage of the ordinance which is the subject
of the referendum, or the petition shall be barred by the lapse of time.
   (E)   When such petition has been certified as sufficient by the City
Secretary, the ordinance shall not go into effect, or if is has gone into
effect, further enforcement or action thereunder shall be suspended unless and
until such ordinance is approved by the voter as herein provided.
SECTION 7.03 CONSIDERATION BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council receives a certified initiative or
referendum petition from the City Secretary, it shall proceed at once to
consider such petition. The City Council shall take final action on such
ordinance not later than thirty (30) days after the date on which it was
submitted to the City Council by the City Secretary.
   (B)   A referred ordinance shall be reconsidered by the City Council and
Council’s final vote upon such consideration shall be on the proposal to
repeal.
SECTION 7.04 REFERENDUM BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   In the absence of a petition, the City Council shall have the
authority to submit a proposed ordinance to the voters.
   (B)   If the City Council specifies that the election is binding, and if the
voters approve the proposed ordinance, then the ordinance is adopted.
   (C)   If the City Council specifies that the election is non-binding, then
the results of the election are only to supply information and guidance to the
City Council and the proposed ordinance is neither approved nor disapproved.
SECTION 7.05 SUBMISSION TO VOTERS.
   (A)   If the City Council shall fail to pass an ordinance proposed by
initiative petition in the exact form proposed, or fail to repeal an ordinance
referred by referendum petition, the proposed initiative or referred referendum
ordinance shall be submitted to the voters.
   (B)   An initiative or referendum election shall be held within sixty (60)
days from the date the City Council takes its final vote on the proposed or
referred ordinance or at the earliest date thereafter permitted by the Texas
Election Code.
   (C)   Any number of ordinances may be voted on at the same election.
SECTION 7.06 RESULTS OF ELECTION.
   (A)   A majority vote in favor of a proposed initiative ordinance shall
constitute its adoption as a City ordinance.
   (B)   If two (2) or more ordinances with conflicting provisions are approved
by the voters, the ordinance receiving the greater number of votes shall be
adopted and the conflicting ordinance or ordinances shall be rejected.
   (C)   An ordinance referred by petition and voted on in a referendum
election that does not receive a majority of the vote shall be deemed repealed.
   (D)   No ordinance adopted at the polls under initiative shall be amended or
repealed by the City Council within six (6) months of adoption.
   (E)   No ordinance repealed at the polls in a referendum election shall be
reenacted within six (6) months.
SECTION 7.07 PUBLICATION OF INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM ORDINANCES.
   Initiative and referendum ordinances shall be published in the same manner
as adopted by the City Council.
SECTION 7.08 RECALL.
   (A)   The voters of this City shall have the power to recall any member of
the City Council including the Mayor, and may exercise such power by filing
with the City Secretary a petition which shall be signed and verified by
registered and qualified voters of tire city as required by the Texas Election
Code an as specified below:
      1.   for a position elected from the City at-large, by a number of such
voters equal to at least thirty (30) percent of the number of votes cast at the
last regular election, or three hundred (300), whichever is greater.
   (B)   The City Secretary shall immediately notify by registered mail the
officer whose removal is sought.
   (C)   If the petition is certified by the City Secretary to be sufficient,
the City Council shall order and hold, or cause to be held, an election to
determine whether such officer shall be recalled.
SECTION 7.09 FORM OF RECALL PETITION.
   The recall petition must be addressed to the City Council and must
distinctly and specifically point out the ground or grounds upon which such
petition for removal is predicated. The signatures shall be verified by oath in
the following form:
   STATE OF TEXAS
   COUNTY OF HIDALGO
I                         , being first duly sworn, on oath depose and say that
I am one of the signed of the above petition, that the statements made therein
are true, and that each signature appearing thereto was made in my presence on
the day and date it purports to have been made, and solemnly swear that the
same is the genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be.
Sworn and subscribed to before me this     day of                   , 20     .
 
                                                      
                                    Notary Public in and for
                                    Hidalgo County, Texas
SECTION 7.10 PUBLIC HEARING ON RECALL PETITION.
   The officer whose removal is sought by a recall petition may, within five
(5) days after such recall petition has been presented to the City Council,
request that a public hearing be held to permit him or her to present facts
pertinent to the charges specified in the recall petition. In this event, the
City Council shall order such public hearing to be held not less than five (5)
days nor more than fifteen (15) days after receiving such request for a public
hearing from said officer.
SECTION 7.11 RECALL ELECTION.
   (A)   If the officer whose removal is sought does not resign, and If the
recall petition is certified by the City Secretary to be sufficient, the City
Council shall order and hold, or cause to be held, an election to determine
whether the officer shall be recalled.
   (B)   A recall election shall be held within thirty (30) days from the date
the petition was submitted to the City Council or from the date of public
hearing if one was held, whichever is later, or at the earliest date thereafter
permitted by the Texas Election Code.
SECTION 7.12 BALLOTS FOR RECALL ELECTION.
   Ballots used at recall elections shall conform to the following
requirements:
   (A)   With respect to each person whose removal is sought, the question
shall be submitted:
      “Shall (name of person) be removed from the office of (name of office) by
recall?”
   (B)   Immediately below each such question there shall be printed the two
(2) following propositions, one above the other, in the order indicated:
            FOR the recall of (name of person)
            AGAINST the recall of (name of person)
SECTION 7.13 RESULTS OF RECALL ELECTION.
   If the majority of the legal votes cast at a recall election is for the
recall of the officer names on the ballot, the City Council shall immediately
declare that office vacant. Such vacancy shall be filled in accordance with the
provisions of this Charter.
SECTION 7.14 LIMITATION ON RECALL.
   No recall petition shall be filed against an officer within six (6) months
after he or she takes office, nor within six (6) months after an election for
such officer’s recall.
SECTION 7.15 FAILURE OF COUNCIL TO CALL AN ELECTION.
   In case all of the requirements of this Charter shall have been met and the
City Council shall fail or refuse to receive the recall petition or order, such
recall election or discharge any other duties imposed upon said Council by the
provisions of this Charter with reference to such recall, any citizen may seek
recourse in District Court.
SECTION 7.16 FORMS OF PETITION.
   (A)   All papers necessary for the filing of petitions to be circulated for
initiative, referendum, or recall must be obtained from the City Secretary. The
petition forms shall be available at the City Secretary’s office at all
reasonable times and will be dated and signed by that City official when
issued.
   (B)   The signatures to initiative, referendum, or recall petitions need not
be appended to one paper, but all papers constituting a single petition shall
be assembled and filed with the City Secretary as one (1) instrument. The
petition must be accompanied by an affidavit made by the person filing such
petition that the petition bears a stated number of signatures, and that all
the signatures appended thereto are, in his or her belief, the genuine
signatures, and that all the signatures are of the persons whose name they
purport to be. All signatures must be in compliance with the requirements set
out in the Texas Election Code.
   (C)   Petitions for initiative, referendum, or recall shall be filed with
the City Secretary. Within twenty (20) days after a petition is filed, the City
Secretary shall determine whether it has a proper affidavit attached of the
person filing same. After completing examination of such petition and
determining that the petition meets the requirements of this Charter, the Texas
Election Code and any other applicable state law, the City Secretary shall
certify the result thereof to the City Council at its next regular meeting. If
such petition is insufficient, the City Secretary shall set forth the
particulars in which it is defective, and shall at once notify the person who
filed it.
SECTION 7.17 AMENDMENT OF PETITION.
   An initiative, referendum, or recall petition may be amended as provided for
in the Texas Election Code. The finding of insufficiency of a petition shall
not prejudice the filing of a new petition for the same purpose provided that
the requirements of this Charter, the Texas Election Code and any other
applicable state law allows for such filing.
ARTICLE VIII. FRANCHISES AND PUBLIC UTILITIES
SECTION 8.01 POWER TO GRANT FRANCHISE.
   The City Council may, by ordinance, grant, amend, renew, cancel for cause,
and extend franchises of all public utilities, including cable television,
operating in the City. No franchise may be granted for an indefinite term.
SECTION 8.02 FRANCHISE EXTENSIONS.
   All extensions of public utilities within the City limits shall become a
part of the aggregate property of the public utility, shall be operated as
such, and shall be subject to all the obligations and reserved rights contained
in this Charter and in any original grant hereafter made. The right to use and
maintain any extension shall terminate with the original grant.
SECTION 8.03 TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   No public utility franchise may be transferred or assigned by the holder
except with the approval of the City Council.
SECTION 8.04 OPTION TO PURCHASE.
   Any public utility franchise may be terminated by ordinance after ten (10)
years after the beginning of operation, whenever the City Council determines to
acquire by condemnation or otherwise the property of such utility necessarily
used in or conveniently useful for the operation of the City within the City
limits of same.
SECTION 8.05 REGULATION OF FRANCHISE.
   All grants, renewals, extensions, or amendments of public-utility
franchises, whether it be so provided in the ordinance or not, shall be subject
to the right of the City to:
   (A)   repeal the same by ordinance at any time for failure to begin
construction or operation within the time prescribed or for failure otherwise
to comply with the terms of the franchise, such power to be exercised only
after due notice and hearing;
   (B)   require an adequate and reasonable extension of plant and service, and
the maintenance of plant and fixtures at the standard necessary to render the
highest reasonable quality of utility service to the public;
   (C)   establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products and
prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
   (D)   prescribe, for each franchised utility, the form of accounts to be
kept, or that the system of accounts conforms to those prescribed by the
appropriate State and/or federal utility-regulatory agencies;
   (E)   impose such reasonable regulations and restrictions as may be deemed
desirable or conducive to the safety, welfare, and accommodation of the public;
   (F)   require franchise holders to furnish the City, without cost to the
City, full information regarding the location and precise description of all
facilities of the franchise holder in, over, or under the City, and to regulate
and control the location, relocation, and removal of the facilities;
   (G)   examine and audit at any time during normal business hours the
accounts and records of the franchise holder; and,
   (H)   require, at any time, such compensation, rental, and franchise fee as.
may be permitted by the laws of the State of Texas.
SECTION 8.06 FRANCHISE RECORDS.
   The City shall compile and maintain a public record of all franchises
granted by the City, including any extensions or amendments to such franchise
grants.
ARTICLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 9.01 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the City shall have a financial interest,
direct or indirect, in any contract with the City except as allowed under Chpt.
171, Texas Local Government Code and any other applicable state law. Any
violation of this provision with the knowledge, express or implied, of the
person or corporation contracting with the City shall render the contract
voidable by the City Manager or the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall adopt an ethics code.
SECTION 9.02 NEPOTISM.
   No person related within the second degree by affinity or the third degree
by consanguinity to the Mayor, a member of the Council, ox to the City Manager
shall be appointed to any paid office, position or other service of the City.
This prohibition shall not apply, however, to any person who shall have been
employed by the City prior to and at the time of the election of the Mayor and/
or Council member, or appointment of the City Manager, so related to him/her,
in accordance with state law.
SECTION 9.03 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every person elected or appointed to any office of the City shall, before
entering upon the duties of that office, take and subscribe to the oath of
office prescribed by state law.
SECTION 9.04 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The Mayor and City Council shall have the authority to create and appoint a
Planning and/or Zoning Commission in accordance with the general laws of the
State of Texas as provided for in the Texas Local Government Code, as now or
hereafter amended.
SECTION 9.05 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   The following activities are prohibited:
      1.   No person shall be appointed to, removed from, or in any way favored
or discriminated against with respect to any City position or appointive City
administrative office because of race, gender, age, handicap, religion, country
of origin, or political affiliation.
      2.   No person who seeks appointment or promotion with respect to any
City position or appointive City administrative office shall directly or
indirectly give, render, or pay any money, service, or other valuable thing to
any person for or in connection with his or her test, appointment, promotion,
or proposed promotion.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
ineligible for a period of five (5) years following such conviction to hold any
City office or position and, if an officer or employee of the City, shall
immediately forfeit his or her office or position. The City Council shall
establish by ordinance such further penalties as it may deem appropriate.
SECTION 9.06 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   All records and accounts of every office, department, or agency of the City
shall be open to inspection by any citizen or by any representative of the
press at all reasonable times and under such reasonable regulations as may be
established by the City Council, except those records and documents the
disclosure of which may be exempted under the Texas Open Records Act.
SECTION 9.07 CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY.
   (A)   Notice of Claim. Before the City shall be liable for a damage claim,
suit for personal injury, or damage to property, the person who is injured or
whose property has been damaged or someone on behalf of that person shall give
the City Manager or the City Secretary notice in writing, duly verified, within
sixty (60) days after the date of the alleged injury or damage. The notice
shall state specifically when, where, and how the injury or damage was
sustained, setting forth the extent of the injury or damage as accurately as
possible, and giving the names and addresses of all witnesses known to claimant
upon whose testimony claimant is relying to establish the injury or damage. In
case of injury resulting in death, the person or persons claiming damage shall
within sixty (60) days after the death of the injured person give notice as
required above. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to mean the City
waives any rights, privileges, defenses, or immunities in tort action which are
provided under the common law, the laws of the State of Texas, and the State
Constitution.
   (B)   Security and Bond. It shall not be necessary in any action, suit or
proceeding in which the City is a party, for any bond, undertaking, or security
to be demanded or executed by or on behalf of said City in any of the State
Courts, but in all such actions, suits, appeals and proceedings, the same shall
be conducted in the same manner as if such bonds, undertaking or security had
been given as required by law.
SECTION 9.08 LIENS; ASSIGNMENT; EXECUTION; AND GARNISHMENT.
   The real and personal property belonging to the City shall not be liable for
sale or appropriation under any writ or execution or cost bill, and no lien of
any kind shall ever exist against any such property owned by the City except a
lien created or authorized by this Charter or state law. The funds belonging to
the City in the hands of any person, firm, or corporation shall not be liable
to garnishment, attachment, or sequestration. The City shall not be liable to
garnishment on account of any debt it may owe or funds or property it may have,
on hand or owing to any person. Neither the City nor any of its officers or
agents shall be required to answer any such writ or garnishment on any account
whatever. The City shall not be obligated to recognize any assignment of wages
or funds by its employees, agents, or contractors except by court order.
SECTION 9.09 SEVERABILITY AND TRANSLATION.
   (A)   If any provision of this Charter is held invalid, the other provisions
of the Charter shall not be affected thereby, if the application of the Charter
or any of its provisions to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
application of the Charter and its provisions to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.
   (B)   This Charter is translated into Spanish. For purposes of
interpretation and enforcement, the English versions of the Charter shall
prevail.
SECTION 9.10 CHARTER AMENDMENT.
   This Charter may be amended every five (5) years by a vote of the qualified
voters of this City in compliance with the laws and Constitution of the State
of Texas. The election may be called directly by the City Council, by the City
Council as the result of a petition submitted by qualified voters of the City
as specified by state law, or by any other means permitted by the laws and
Constitution of the State of Texas.
ARTICLE X. TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 10.01 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Nothing in this Charter except as otherwise specifically provided shall
affect, or impair the rights or privileges of persons who are City officers or
employees at the time of its adoption.
SECTION 10.02 PENDING MATTERS.
   All rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal administrative
proceedings shall continue except as modified pursuant to the provisions of
this Charter.
SECTION 10.03 EFFECT ON EXISTING LAW.
   (A)   All City ordinances, rules, and regulations in force on adoption of
this Charter and not in conflict with it shall remain in force until altered,
amended or repealed by the City Council. All rights of the City under existing
franchises and contracts are preserved in full force and effect.
   (B)   Any ordinances, rules, or regulations inconsistent with this Charter
are repealed as of the date of adoption of the Charter.
   (C)   Any laws, ordinances, rules, or regulations applicable to Type A
General Law Municipalities and not also applicable to Home Rule Municipalities
in the State of Texas shall be superseded upon adoption of this Charter. Any
such ordinances, rules, or regulations are repealed as of the date of this
Charter.
SECTION 10.04 TEMPORARY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   To deal with cases in which there is an urgent need for prompt action
in connection with the transition of government and in which the delay incident
to the appropriate ordinance procedure would probably cause serious hardship or
impairment of effective City government, the City Council may, at any meeting
held within sixty (60) days following adoption of this Charter, adopt temporary
ordinances. Every temporary ordinance shall be plainly labeled as such but
shall be introduced in the form and manner prescribed for ordinances generally.
   (B)   After adoption of a temporary ordinance, the City Council shall cause
it to be printed and published as prescribed for other adopted ordinances.
   (C)   Every temporary ordinance, including any amendment made thereto after
adoption, shall automatically stand repealed as of the ninety-first (91st) day
following the date on which it was adopted.
   (D)   Temporary ordinances are not subject to referendum.
ARTICLE XI. SUBMISSION OF CHARTER TO VOTERS
   The Charter Commission in preparing this Charter has decided that it is
impracticable to segregate subjects so as to permit voting on individual
subjects separately. Accordingly, the Charter Commission directs that this
Charter be submitted to qualified voters of the City to be voted on as a whole
at the General City Election on November, 2006.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering or tampering with code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   Admission of printed codes in evidence, see Tex. Local Government Code §
53.006
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Local Government
Code Ch. 53
   Penalty for ordinance violations, see Tex. Local Government Code § 29.003
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Palmview, Texas,
shall be designated as the “Code of Palmview”, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the laws
of the state.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense; however, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Palmview, Texas.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code, as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Hidalgo County, Texas.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof and, as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Texas.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including, but not limited to, the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the municipality
or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for municipal officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to municipal
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing or otherwise relating to rates
to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating or otherwise relating
to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All such ordinances mentioned in division (A) above are hereby
recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set
out at length herein.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to such indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25,
passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Tex. Local Government Code § 54.001) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see Tex. Local Government Code §§
552.001 et seq.
§ 10.19 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever in this chapter, code or any ordinance of the city an
act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in such chapter, code or any ordinance the doing of
any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful or
a public nuisance, the violation shall be punished by a fine:
         (a)   Not to exceed $4,000 if the provisions govern fire safety or
public health and sanitation, including vegetation and litter violations and
the dumping of refuse; or
         (b)   Fixed by state law if the violation is one for which the state
has fixed a fine.
      (2)   Whenever in this chapter, code or any ordinance of the city an act
is prohibited, or the doing of a specific act is required, and in the event of
the committing of an act which is prohibited or the failure to correspond to an
act which is required, such act or omission constitutes an offense and unlawful
conduct and is hereby declared to be against the peace and dignity of the state
and the city. All such violations of this chapter, code or any ordinance are
punishable by a fine as provided for in this section and shall be under the
jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in and for the city.
   (B)   Except as otherwise specified, a culpable mental status is not
required for the commission of an offense under this chapter, code or any
ordinance of the city, or under any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to
or under the authority of this chapter, code or any ordinance of the city.
   (C)   A Code Enforcement Officer, Fire Marshal or peace officer is
authorized to enforce any and all of the provisions of this chapter, code or
any ordinance through such means as making inspections, giving notice of
violations, issuing citations and filing charges with the Municipal Court.
   (D)   (1)   A person issued a citation for a violation of the city’s code of
ordinances shall, on or before the appearance date indicated on the citation,
enter a plea to each charge indicated on the citation in accordance with Tex.
Code of Criminal Procedure § 27.14.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if the person fails to appear or enter
a plea on or before the appearance date indicated on the issued citation. A
violation is a Class C misdemeanor offense punishable by a fine as provided in
division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   Municipal Court Judges shall have the authority to issue an arrest
warrant, in accordance with Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure § 45.014, to compel
the attendance of a person described under division (D)(2) above.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 4-15-2014)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
35.   FEE SCHEDULE
      36.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Departmental organization
   
30.02   Public testimony at open meetings
Specific Offices and Organizations
   
30.15   Municipal Judge
   
30.16   Planning and Zoning Board
   
30.17   Library Advisory Board
   
30.18   Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 DEPARTMENTAL ORGANIZATION.
   The following departments and offices are created pursuant to the laws of
the state and/or the City Charter: City Attorney’s Office; City Council; City
Manager’s Office; City Secretary’s Office; City Tax Collector Office; Finance
Department; Fire Department; Human Resources Department; Municipal Court;
Planning and Code Enforcement Department; Police Department; Parks and
Recreation Department; Public Works Department; and Public Utility Department.
All acts occurring prior to the effective date of this section shall be
ratified and adopted. On all matters related to city, the departments shall be
authorized to carry out any and all duties and responsibilities as directed by
the city and as may be allowed by law.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 9-15-2017)
§ 30.02 PUBLIC TESTIMONY AT OPEN MEETINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GOVERNMENTAL OR GOVERNING BODY. Shall mean and be defined for the purpose
of interpreting and enforcing this section as described by Tex. Local
Government Code § 551.001(3)(B) - (L), which includes the Palmview City Council
(a municipal governing body in the state), and a deliberative body that has
rulemaking or quasi-judicial power and that is classified as a department,
agency, or political subdivision of a municipality.
      PUBLIC TESTIMONY; SIGN-IN REQUIREMENT; TIME LIMIT. This section does not
apply to advisory boards of the city. A person intending on addressing the
governing body may speak at a scheduled meeting of the governing body following
registration with the Presiding Clerk and prior to the scheduled meeting. A
registered speaker may speak only on items on the agenda and may not exceed
three minutes when addressing the board regarding an agenda item. A registered
speaker may not donate time to another speaker. A sign-in form for public
testimony shall be promulgated by the Presiding Clerk and be made available at
the City Clerk’s office. No registered speaker may be allowed to speak
regarding an item once the public testimony portion of the agenda has ended.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   The order of procedure shall follow the order of the agenda;
however, the Mayor or Presiding Officer shall have the authority to vary the
order of procedure in order to expedite the proceedings; provided that no
properly registered person shall be denied an opportunity to address the
governing body on an agenda item on the day for which the item is scheduled
because of a variance to the order of procedure and provided that the
registered speaker arrived before closing the public testimony period.
      (2)   No person shall address the governing body without first being
recognized by the Mayor or Presiding Officer.
      (3)   No person, either individually or in a representative capacity,
shall address the governing body on an agenda item that is under consideration
by the governing body unless recognition is allowed as specified in division
(B)(2) above and if properly registered as prescribed in division (B)(1) above.
      (4)   The Presiding Officer or any member of the governing body may make
a motion pertaining to the subject matter of such agenda. All motions,
authorizations, decisions, and actions, except those requiring a greater number
as set out in the Charter or under state law, shall be approved upon a majority
vote of the Presiding Officer and governing body so voting thereon.
      (5)   Any posted meeting of the governing body may be recessed to another
time and place for the purposes of consideration and action on any items not
acted on during such meeting by an announcement of the Presiding Officer during
such meeting; such announcement will provide the time, date and place at which
such recessed meeting shall be continued.
      (6)   Each person addressing the governing body shall give their name and
address in an audible tone of voice for the record, state the subject they wish
to discuss, and state who/whom the person is representing if representing an
entity, organization, or other persons. All remarks shall be addressed to the
governing body as a whole and not to any member thereof. No person shall be
permitted to enter into any discussion, either directly or through a member of
the governing body, without the permission of the Presiding Officer. No
question may be asked a member of the governing body, or a member of the city
staff, without the permission of the Presiding Officer.
      (7)   In order to expedite matters and to avoid repetitious
presentations, whenever any identifiable group of persons wishes to address the
governing body on the same subject matter, it shall be proper for the Presiding
Officer to request that a spokesperson be chosen by the group to address the
governing body and, in case additional matters are to be presented by any other
member of such group, to limit the number of such persons addressing the
governing body.
      (8)   After a motion has been made or public testimony has been closed,
no member of the public shall address the governing body on the matter under
consideration without first securing permission to do so by the Presiding
Officer.
      (9)   Any person, business, corporation, or other entity that desires to
solicit services to the city shall not use a public hearing agenda item for
discussion or consideration of such services. The governing body will consider
solicitations only if placed on the agenda and, if applicable, after such legal
requirements have been satisfied for the purchasing and contracting of such
services.
   (C)   Order and decorum.
      (1)   Board members. While the governing body is in session, the members
must observe order and decorum, and a member shall neither, by conversation or
otherwise, delay or interrupt the proceedings or the peace of the governing
body, nor disturb any member while speaking or refuse to obey the orders of the
Presiding Officer.
      (2)   Employees. Members of the city staff and employees shall observe
the same rules of order and decorum as are applicable to the City Council.
      (3)   Persons addressing the board. Any person who willfully utters loud,
threatening or abusive language including but not limited to profanities, or
engages in any disorderly conduct that constitutes defamation, true threats,
fighting words, obscenities, defamation (including libel and slander),
blackmail, solicitation to commit crimes, or that may impede, incite, disrupt
or disturb the orderly conduct of any meeting, hearing or other proceeding,
shall be called to order by the Presiding Officer or immediately removed. If
such conduct continues, the governing body may at its discretion order that any
violator be barred from further participation before the governing body.
      (4)   Members of the audience; search. It shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in disorderly conduct such as: hand clapping, stomping of
feet, whistling, yelling and similar demonstrations, which conduct disturbs the
peace and good order of the meeting. Use of placards, banners, signs, exhibits,
displays, clothing, and other visual aids or devices that display sentiments
that may be threatening, abusive, profane, or result in any disorderly conduct
are not permitted in the governing body's meeting area during meeting times. No
conversation among persons in the audience shall take place that may disturb
the order of business. All mobile and other communication devices including
telephones shall be on silent or a non-audible mode. Hand clapping may be
allowed as an exception to this provision in instances allowed by the Presiding
Officer such as celebratory or positive acknowledgment.
      (5)   The Presiding Officer shall reserve the right to impose reasonable
rules and modify rules regarding the public’s participation, including
procedures, order, and decorum.
   (D)   Disturbance abatement.
      (1)   Warning. All persons at the meetings of the governing body shall,
at the request of the Presiding Officer, be silent. If, after receiving a
warning from the Presiding Officer, a person persists in disturbing the
meeting, such Officer may order him/her to remove himself/herself from the
meeting. If he/she does not remove himself/herself, the Presiding Officer may
order that the City Manager or a law enforcement officer have the person
removed.
      (2)   Removal. The Chief of Police, or such member of the Police
Department as the Presiding Officer may designate, shall be Sergeant-at-Arms of
the City Council’s meetings. The Chief shall carry out all orders and
instructions given by the Presiding Officer for the purpose of maintaining
order and decorum at the meeting. Upon instruction of the Presiding Officer, it
shall be the duty of the Sergeant-at-Arms to remove from the meeting any person
who disturbs the proceedings of the governing body.
      (3)   Necessitating removal. It shall be unlawful for any person at a
meeting of the governing body to resist removal by the Sergeant-at-Arms.
      (4)   Motions to enforce. Any member of the governing body may move to
require the Presiding Officer to enforce the terms of this section, and the
affirmative vote of a majority of the governing body shall require him or her
to do so.
      (5)   Adjournment. If any meeting of the governing body is willfully
disturbed by a group of persons so as to render the orderly conduct of such
meeting unfeasible, and when order cannot be restored by the removal of
individuals who are creating the disturbance, the meeting may be adjourned, and
the remaining business considered at the next regular meeting.
   (E)   Use of cameras and recorders. Cameras, including television and motion
picture cameras, electronic sound recording devices and any other mechanical,
electrical or electronic recording devices may be used in a reasonable manner
in the public section of the commission chamber but only in the areas
designated by the city.
   (F)   Provisions applicable to boards and committees. The rules and
procedures set out herein shall be applicable to the city’s elected body and to
a deliberative body that has rulemaking or quasi-judicial power and that is
classified as a department, agency, or political subdivision of the
municipality.
   (G)   Notice shall be placed in conspicuous place. All or part of the
provisions of this section may be placed in an area to be viewed by the public
at or near the meeting site.
   (H)   Enforcement; punishment; penalties.
      (1)   Should any person or business violate the prohibitions contained
herein, the City Attorney may take any action to enforce this section or any
ordinance to prevent and summarily abate the action, and any and all other
relief as may be necessary.
      (2)   Any violation of this section shall be subject to both civil and
criminal penalties. A criminal conviction shall be a Class C misdemeanor. A
violator shall also be subject to the maximum penalties allowed by law for
failing to appear in court when charged with an offense as described herein. If
conduct constituting an offense under this section also constitutes an offense
under another law, the person may be prosecuted under all applicable laws.
      (3)   A liable party shall be subject to a civil penalty up to $200 per
violation, in addition to court costs, and other fees allowed by law.
(Ord. 2019-15-O, passed 11-5-2019)
SPECIFIC OFFICES AND ORGANIZATIONS
§ 30.15 MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (A)   Municipal Judge and Interim Judges. As soon as reasonably practicable
after the swearing in of the Mayor for the Mayor’s term of office and, upon a
vacancy in the Municipal Court, the Mayor shall tender in writing to the City
Secretary the names of the persons be nominated to serve as Municipal Court and
Interim Judges of the Municipal Court. The City Secretary shall complete, for
each nominee, the personal information required to be completed and tendered to
the City Council in its consideration of the nominees. The City Council shall
vote to approve or disapprove each of the nominees and that action shall be
final. The City Council may not consider the approval of, or approve of, any
person for a position of Municipal Court Judge unless that person has been
nominated by the Mayor.
   (B)   Appointment and removal; oath. The Municipal Court shall be held by a
City Judge, who shall be appointed by and subject to removal by the City
Council. The term of office shall not exceed the term of office of the Mayor.
However, a serving Municipal Judge may continue to serve as such until his or
her replacement, which shall be effective upon the replacement nominee taking
the oath of office. No nominee for Municipal Judge shall take the oath of
office until the nominee has attended the required training necessary to
undertake the service of Judge, including any necessary certification. Before
entering upon the discharge of the duties of such office, the Judge shall take
and subscribe the usual oath of office and post bond.
   (C)   Selection, qualification and term of office of Judge. The Municipal
Judge shall be at least 25 years of age. The Municipal Judge shall not hold any
other elected public office while holding the title of City of Palmview
Municipal Judge.
   (D)   Powers and duties generally. The City Judge shall preside at all
hearings in the Municipal Court and shall exercise the powers of this position
as may be required by state law and city ordinances.
   (E)   Interim Judges. When situations require, the Mayor may nominate one or
more qualified substitutes to serve during illness, temporary absence,
inability to serve or disqualification of the City Judge.
   (F)   Appointment and removal of Judge.
      (1)   The Judge may be removed at any time for good cause by a majority
vote of the City Council. Before removal, however, written charges must be
proffered against him or her, which written charges must be signed by one or
more of the City Council members and delivered to the Mayor and the City
Secretary. The Judge must be furnished a copy of the written charges, together
with notice of the time and place of a hearing, which must held not be less
than 30 days after serving the Judge of a copy of the charges. At the request
of the Judge, such hearing may be open to public or held in executive session
and the Judge shall have the right to engage legal counsel and to call
witnesses on his or her own behalf and examine witnesses which appear before
the City Council against him or her. The action of the City Council in removing
or in refusing to remove the Judge shall be final and there shall be no appeal
from the action of the City Council.
      (2)   Upon any vacancy occurring for any reason during a term of the
Municipal Court Judge, a new Judge shall be appointed for the remainder of the
term during which the vacancy occurred.
   (G)   Compensation. The compensation of the Municipal Judge is $700 per
month and the Alternate Judge is $500 per month.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-18-2016)
§ 30.16 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.
   (A)   The city does hereby increase the composition of the Planning and
Zoning Board to five residents of the city to be named by proper motion by the
City Council, and each member of said Planning and Zoning Board shall serve at
the pleasure of the City Council.
   (B)   The said Planning and Zoning Board shall have all of the powers
enumerated in Tex. Local Government Code Ch. 211, plus all of the additional
powers hereinafter set forth plus any other duties given to it by the City
Council.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall meet as such times as shall be
convenient and necessary for the transaction of business and three or more
Planning and Zoning Board members shall constitute a quorum for the purposes of
meeting as a Planning and Zoning Board with the Chairperson to be elected by
the Planning and Zoning Board and to serve as Chairperson at the pleasure of
the Planning and Zoning Board.
   (D)   All business transacted by the Planning and Zoning Board and all
action taken shall be by a majority vote, with the presiding officer having the
power to vote only to make or break a tie.
   (E)   The meeting times of the Planning and Zoning Board shall be set by the
Planning and Zoning Board and said Board shall meet at the same location as the
City Council.
   (F)   The Monitor, located in McAllen, Hidalgo County, Texas, is appointed
as the official newspaper for the Planning and Zoning Board for the city.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 10-25-1994)
§ 30.17 LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The Palmview Municipal Library is hereby established as the city’s
public library.
   (B)   The Palmview Library Advisory Board is hereby created to provide
advice and support for the library. The Board shall consist of five members
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Council.
   (C)   The Council from time to time may assess necessary fees for services.
(Ord. 2018-10-O, passed 9-26-2018)
§ 30.18 PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   There is created and established a Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
which shall act in accordance with and subject to the provisions, duties and
limitations of this section.
   (B)   The following guidelines are set forth for the Parks and Recreation
Advisory Board.
      (1)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board serves at the pleasure of
the City Council in an advisory capacity. The City Council shall have authority
to create, direct, or dissolve the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board as
needed.
      (2)   The Council makes the final determination of which persons sit on
the five-member Parks and Recreation Advisory Board. The Advisory Board may
submit names for consideration, but at no time do they have the power to
appoint, fill a vacancy or replace a member without the written consent of the
City Council.
      (3)   All members of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall serve
without pay.
      (4)   All members shall be full-time residents of the city.
      (5)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall determine and
establish meetings as necessary in order to make recommendations to the City
Council.
      (6)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board is an advisory board to the
City Council in the manner of parks and recreation facilities, staff structure,
projects, and any other topic related to parks and recreation in the city area
as tasked by the City Council.
      (7)   As an Advisory Board appointed by the City Council, all meetings of
the Advisory Board are subject to the open meetings laws and are open to the
public at all times.
(Ord. 2018-13-O, passed 9-26-2018)
CHAPTER 31: PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES
Section
Emergency Services
   
31.01   Creation of office of Emergency Services; duties
   
31.02   Requirements
   
31.03   Marshal; duties
   
31.04   Fire and arson investigators
   
31.05   Code Enforcement Unit
   
31.06   Emergency Operation Center (EOC)
   
31.07   Homeland Security Unit
   
31.08   Public information; release of information
   
31.09   Incident command vehicle
   
31.10   Memorandum of understanding
   
31.11   Emergency management plan
   
31.12   Right of entry; examination and correction of dangerous conditions
   
31.13   Correction of dangerous conditions
   
31.14   Attendance at fires; emergency scenes
   
31.15   Investigation of fire
   
31.16   Misconduct of witnesses
   
31.17   Fire prevention and safety education
Fire Department Services
   
31.30   Emergency and rescue services and fees
   
31.31   Fees
   
31.32   EMS Division established
Office of Public Safety
   
31.45   Creation
   
31.46   Duties and authority
   
31.47   Requirements
   
31.48   Chief of Public Safety; duties
   
31.49   Fire Department duties and responsibilities
 
   
31.99   Penalty
EMERGENCY SERVICES
§ 31.01 CREATION OF OFFICE OF EMERGENCY SERVICES; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The office of Emergency Services shall be created. The Marshal
of the office of Emergency Services is appointed by the City Manager.
      (2)   The office of Emergency Services shall be responsible for
investigating and prosecuting all acts of arson within its city and those
jurisdictions as authorized by interlocal agreements.
      (3)   The office of Emergency Services is not subject to civil service
requirements or standards. All employees of the Department are unclassified
employees appointed under and subject to all of the applicable provisions of
the personnel policies of the city.
      (4)   The office of Emergency Services is chartered and authorized by the
Federal Emergency Management Administration, the state’s Department of Public
Safety (Division of Emergency Management) and applicable laws and resolutions
by the state as prescribed in HSC Ch. 778, Tex. Government Code Ch. 418, 433
and 791, Tex. Administrative Code Title 37, Texas Governor’s Taskforce Order 57
and other applicable sections/chapters.
   (B)   The office of Emergency Services shall:
      (1)   Be an office created by the City Council;
      (2)   Have investigative duties, arrest powers and criminal case
preparation authority, as defined by local and state law;
      (3)   Oversee all matters involving homeland security;
      (4)   Perform law enforcement duties as deemed necessary and assist the
office of Public Safety as requested by the Chief of Public Safety;
      (5)   Oversee all matters of radio/data communications, computer network
and data security;
      (6)   Oversee all matters of aviation facilities/operations for the city;
      (7)   Oversee all matters of interagency response and coordination for
city departments;
      (8)   Oversee all matters of code enforcement as required and allowed by
city ordinance, state and federal law; and
      (9)   Shall maintain original jurisdiction on any criminal/civil case
involving fire cause investigation unless the Fire Marshal deems transfer of
case to another agency is necessary.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Marshal must be a sworn full-time law enforcement officer, as
designated under Tex. Code of Criminal Procedures § 2.12.
   (B)   Any member of the office of Emergency Services must submit to a
criminal background investigation prior to appointment and must be free from
felony conviction; and must meet applicable requirements of appointment for
such office by the state’s Commission on Law Enforcement Officer Standards and
Education.
   (C)   The Marshal or his or her designee shall maintain an on-call schedule
and respond when requested in the event an emergency arises. The office of
Emergency Service shall have all contact information registered with the
county’s Emergency Management Office and with the state’s Department of
Emergency Management.
   (D)   The Marshal shall be responsible for acting as the city’s liaison with
the Lower Rio Grande Valley Development Council with matters of communications
or homeland security.
   (E)   The Marshal shall be a registered member of the state’s Department of
Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management RACES team.
   (F)   The Marshal shall serve as a member of the Incident Management Team
(TMT) of the state’s Department of Public Safety region.
   (G)   The Marshal may create, appoint, supervise and operate a “volunteer”
group, as outlined by the United States Department of Justice, Citizen Corps
and Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) guidelines.
§ 31.03 MARSHAL; DUTIES.
   The Marshal shall:
   (A)   Be commissioned and appointed as a peace officer under Tex. Code of
Criminal Procedure § 2.12;
   (B)   Perform duties as “Fire Marshal” and use such title;
   (C)   Oversee all operations of the office of Emergency Services and its
personnel/volunteers;
   (D)   Appoint/delegate to those persons within the office of Emergency
Services, which are capable of completing the tasks; and
   (E)   Serve as the city’s Emergency Management Coordinator (EMC).
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.04 FIRE AND ARSON INVESTIGATORS.
   Fire and arson investigators shall:
   (A)   Be responsible for investigating the origin of fires and instances of
arson and prepare cases for prosecution and provide case management until which
time a adjudication is provided by the District Attorney’s office;
   (B)   Perform other law enforcement duties assigned and allowed by law;
   (C)   Enforce the laws of the state, county and city on a regular basis and
may assist the city’s local Police Department in daily duties as deemed
necessary by the Chief of Police for the city; and
   (D)   Assist, by interlocal agreement, other similar agencies with
investigation into fire origin and acts of arson, as deemed necessary by the
agency having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.05 CODE ENFORCEMENT UNIT.
   (A)   The Marshal will select, supervise and control the Code Enforcement
Division staff members.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Division staff may consist of both licensed peace
officer and non-peace officer employees. The Marshal may appoint persons,
including licensed peace officers, to act under his or her supervision to
perform code enforcement duties.
   (C)   The Marshal and any Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue
citations to any person he or she has probable cause to believe is in violation
of any provision of this code, including the Land Development Code, Building
and Construction Codes, Fire Code and Health Codes to the extent authorized or
restricted by state law.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.06 EMERGENCY OPERATION CENTER (EOC).
   The office of Emergency Services shall be responsible and required to
maintain the city’s Emergency Operation Center (EOC). The Marshal/EMC shall act
as the EOC Manager or may appoint such role to another member of the Emergency
Management/Homeland Security office as necessary. The EOC shall be a secured
place and have limited access to restrict the flow of information within it to
persons involved in the operation of the EOC.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.07 HOMELAND SECURITY UNIT.
   The Marshal shall coordinate the flow of information regarding matters of
homeland security for the city and may release law enforcement only information
to members of the office of Emergency Services as needed to ensure preparedness
and safety at scenes of emergencies. All disseminated information shall be
marked appropriately to ensure compliance with all criminal justice rules and
regulations. The Marshal may forward to the city’s Police/Fire Departments
information which is of relevance to the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.08 PUBLIC INFORMATION; RELEASE OF INFORMATION.
   The Marshal shall be responsible for all information to the public directly
or indirectly via media outlets on all matters involving emergency management/
homeland security. The Marshal may appoint a Public Information Officer for his
or her office as deemed necessary.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.09 INCIDENT COMMAND VEHICLE.
   The office of Emergency Services shall have a designated emergency response
vehicle equipped with emergency lighting as defined by the Tex. Transportation
Code Ch. 546 and thus deemed an authorized emergency vehicle. The Incident
Command vehicle must maintain the ability to communicate with surrounding
agencies via direct radio contact and be capable of interoperable
communications outlined in applicable memorandums of understanding.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.10 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.
   (A)   The Marshal shall be responsible for completion and the maintenance of
all memorandums of understandings with the state with regards to communications
and emergency management.
   (B)   The Marshal shall serve on applicable committees as a representative
of the city.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.11 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   The Emergency Management/Homeland Security Director shall be responsible for
the creation, filing and maintenance of the Emergency Action Plan and hazard
assessments for the city.
   (A)   Hazard assessments are to be completed by the city entity having first
responder jurisdiction.
   (B)   Completed hazard assessments are maintained in the Emergency
Management/Homeland Security office and Emergency Operations Center for
preparedness and operation exercises.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.12 RIGHT OF ENTRY; EXAMINATION AND CORRECTION OF DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   (A)   On the complaint of any person, the Marshal, at any reasonable time,
is entitled to enter any building or premises.
   (B)   The Marshal shall enter and is entitled, at any time, to enter and
make a thorough examination of any: mercantile, manufacturing or public
building; place of amusement; place where public gatherings are held; or
premises belonging to a building or place.
   (C)   The Marshal shall order the removal of a building or structure or
other remedial action if it is determined that:
      (1)   The building or other structure that, because of lack of repair,
age, dilapidated condition or other reason, is susceptible to fire and is so
located or occupied that fire would endanger persons or property in the
building or structure;
      (2)   A dangerous condition is created by:
         (a)   An improper arrangement of stoves, ranges, furnaces or other
heating appliances, including chimneys, flues and pipes with which they are
connected, or by their lighting systems or devices; or
         (b)   The manner of storage of explosives, compounds, petroleum,
gasoline, kerosene, dangerous chemicals, vegetable products, ashes or
combustible, flammable or refuse materials.
      (3)   Any other condition existing that is dangerous or is liable to
cause or promote fire or create danger for firefighters, occupants or other
buildings or structures.
   (D)   The occupant or owner of the building or premises shall immediately
comply with an order made by the Marshal under this section. The Marshal may,
if necessary, apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for writs or orders
necessary to enforce this section, and the court may grant appropriate relief.
The Marshal is not required to give a bond.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.13 CORRECTION OF DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   Whenever he or she shall find any building or other structure which, for
want of repair, or by reason of age or dilapidated condition, or for any cause,
is especially liable to fire, and which is situated as to endanger other
buildings or property, or so occupied that fire would endanger persons or
property therein, and whenever he or she shall find an improper or dangerous
arrangement of stoves, ranges, furnaces or other heating appliances of any kind
whatsoever, including chimneys, flues and pipes with which the same may be
connected, or a dangerous arrangement of lighting devices or systems, or
dangerous or unlawful storage of explosives, compounds, petroleum, gasoline,
kerosene/dangerous chemicals, vegetable products, ashes combustible,
inflammable and refuse materials, or other conditions which may be dangerous in
character or liable to cause or promote fire or create conditions dangerous to
a firefighter or occupants, he or she shall order the same to be removed or
remedied, and such order shall be forthwith complied with by the owner or
occupant of such building or premises; provided, however, that, if such owner
or occupant deems himself or herself aggrieved by such order, he or she may,
within five days, appeal to the Fire Chief, who shall investigate the cause of
the complaint and unless by his or her authority the order is revoked, such
order shall remain in force and be forthwith complied with by such owner or
occupant.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.14 ATTENDANCE AT FIRES; EMERGENCY SCENES.
   The Marshal or a member of his or her staff may respond and be present at
any emergency within the city. In the event a fire is suspected to be arson, a
member of the office of Emergency Services must respond and oversee any and all
criminal investigations into the cause or origin of the fire.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.15 INVESTIGATION OF FIRE.
   (A)   The Marshal shall immediately investigate a fire occurring in which
property is destroyed or injury to a person has occurred.
   (B)   The Marshal, at any time, may enter a building or premises at which a
fire is in progress or has occurred and is under control of law enforcement or
fire service officials to investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of
the fire. If control of the building or premises has been relinquished, entry
must be in compliance with search and seizure law and applicable state/federal
law.
   (C)   The Marshal shall conduct the investigation at the place of the fire
and before an insured loss may be paid. The Marshal shall ascertain, if
possible, whether the fire was caused intentionally, carelessly or
accidentally. The Marshal shall make a written report of the investigation.
   (D)   If the Marshal believes that further investigation is necessary, the
Marshal shall take sworn statements from persons with relevant information and
shall have the statements put in writing. The Marshal or his or her designee
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses and the production
of documents.
   (E)   If the Marshal believes there is sufficient evidence to charge a
person with arson, attempted arson, conspiracy to commit fraud or another
offense related to the matter under investigation, the Marshal shall give to
the appropriate prosecuting attorney all evidence and relevant information that
has been obtained, including the names of witnesses. The Marshal shall arrest
the person if the person has not been arrested by some other authority. The
Marshal shall assist in the prosecution of any complaint.
   (F)   The Marshal may conduct or direct the conduct of an investigation in
private and may exclude from the place of the investigation persons not needed
for the investigation. Witnesses may be separated from each other and not be
allowed to communicate with other witnesses until after they have testified.
   (G)   The Marshal may elect to withhold from the public any testimony taken
in an investigation under this section.
   (H)   If the Marshal is unable to make a required investigation, the Marshal
may designate another person to make the investigation. This person will have
the same authority in the investigation as this subchapter provides for the
Marshal.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.16 MISCONDUCT OF WITNESSES.
   Any witness who refuses to be sworn, or who refuses to appear or testify, or
who disobeys any lawful order of such Marshal, or who fails or refuses to
produce any book, paper or document touching any matter under examination, or
who is guilty of any contemptuous conduct during any proceedings of the Marshal
in the matter of such investigation or inquiry, after being summoned to give
testimony in relation to any matter under investigation, shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor; and it shall be the duty of the Marshal to cause all such
offenders to be prosecuted.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.17 FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY EDUCATION.
   The office of Emergency Services shall have no authority over fire
prevention, fire pre-planning or fire safety education duties for the city, as
this is a current service of the city’s Fire Department.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICES
§ 31.30 EMERGENCY AND RESCUE SERVICES AND FEES.
   (A)   The City Council recognizes and supports the practice of the city’s
Fire Department to bill persons and entities, including insurance companies
providing coverage to said persons and entitles, for the reasonable costs that
are related and incidental to any loss, damage and wear to the city’s Fire
Department apparatus, tools, equipment and materials utilized to provide the
emergency services to said persons and entities.
   (B)   (1)   Fees shall be collected for services provided within the city’s
Fire Department designated response area that includes both inside and outside
the city limits.
      (2)   Fees will not exceed the amount expended by the city’s Fire
Department.
      (3)   Fire Administration shall collect applicable incident report
information and will forward to the city’s Fire Department’s authorized agent
responsible for collection of any incurred fees.
   (C)   The city’s Fire Department, or its authorized agent, shall submit an
invoice to the appropriate insurance company, persons or entity covering or
responsible for the particular expenses as related to the emergency services
provided.
   (D)   Residents of the city who have no insurance coverage for the incident
as a result of which they received emergency services rendered by the city’s
Fire Department are hereby exempted from the Fire Department service charges
contained herein, unless it is determined that the emergency services were
provided as a result of negligent and/or malicious act(s) or risky behavior on
the part of said persons, in which case said exemption shall not apply, in
addition, any commercially owned, operated or zoned property shall not be
eligible for said exemption listed in this section.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 2-13-2014)
§ 31.31 FEES.
   (A)   The fees for the use of apparatus, tools, equipment and materials when
providing emergency and rescue services by the city’s Fire Department shall be
paid by the recipient of those services and the fees for those services shall
be as follows.
   (B)   The minimum usage charge for any item is one hour and for any
additional hours or portion thereof, the charge will be prorated accordingly.
 
Unit of Measure            Price per Hour
Per aerial                 $550
Per command vehicle        $250
Per engine                 $550
Per investigator vehicle   $250
Per Safety Officer vehicle $250
 
Hazardous Materials Equipment Price / Unit per Measure
Hazardous Materials Equipment            Price / Unit per Measure
Absorbent                                $17 per bag
Advanced cleaning of protective clothing $50 per piece
Barricade tape                           $22 each
Class A foam                             $65 per 5 gallons
Gas multi meter                          $65 per incident
Microblaze-out                           $10 per quart
                                         $150 per 5 gallons
Replacement of protection coat           $1,025 each
Replacement of protection pants          $705 each
Replacement of protection boots          $275 per pair
Top sol                                  $35 each
 
 
Rescue Equipment Price / Unit of Measure
Rescue spreaders $250 per incident
Rescue cutters   $250 per incident
Rescue rams      $250 per incident
 
   (C)   Mitigation rates.
      (1)   The Palmview Fire/EMS Department shall initiate mitigation rates
for the delivery of emergency and non-emergency services by the Fire Department
for personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene of emergency and non-
emergency incidents as listed below. The mitigation rates shall be based on
actual costs of the services and that which is usual, customary and reasonable
(UCR) as shown below, which may include any services, personnel, supplies, and
equipment and with baselines established by addendum to this section.
      (2)   A claim shall be filed to the responsible party(s) through their
insurance carrier. In some circumstances, the responsible party(s) will be
billed directly.
      (3)   The Palmview Fire Department’s City Council may make rules or
regulations and from time to time may amend, revoke, or add rules and
regulations not consistent with this section, as they may deem necessary or
expedient in respect to billing for these mitigation rates or the collection
thereof.
      (4)   The mitigation rates listed below will increase by 1.5% annually or
based on the annual percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI), as
developed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor,
whichever is more. Rate adjustments will occur on the anniversary date of this
section to keep the Fire Department's cost recovery program in conformity with
increasing operating expenses.
MITIGATION RATES
The mitigation rates below are average “billing levels”, and are typical for the
incident responses listed, however, when a claim is submitted, it will be
itemized and based on the actual services provided.
MITIGATION RATES
The mitigation rates below are average “billing levels”, and are typical for the incident
responses listed, however, when a claim is submitted, it will be itemized and based on the
actual services provided.
Motor vehicle incidents
Level 1 (provide hazardous materials assessment and scene stabilization. This
will be the most common “billing level”. This occurs almost every time the Fi$506
Department responds to an accident/incident.)
Level 2 (includes Level 1 services as well as clean-up and material used
(sorbents) for hazardous fluid clean-up and disposal. We will bill at this level $576
if the Fire Department has to clean up any gasoline or other automotive fluids
that are spilled as a result of the accident/incident.)
Level 3: car fire (provide scene safety, fire suppression, breathing air, rescue
tools, hand tools, hose, tip use, foam, structure protection, and clean up       $704
gasoline or other automotive fluids that are spilled as a result of the
accident/incident.)
Add-on services
Extrication (includes heavy rescue tools, ropes, airbags, cribbing and the like.
This charge will be added if the Fire Department has to free/remove anyone from
the vehicle(s) using any equipment. We will not bill at this level if the        $1,520
patient is simply unconscious and the Fire Department is able to open the door
to access the patient. This level is to be billed only if equipment is
deployed.)
Creating a landing zone (includes air care (multi-engine company response,
mutual aid, helicopter). We will bill at this level any time a helicopter        $465
landing zone is created and/or is utilized to transport the patient(s).)
                                                                                 You have
                                                                                 the option
                                                                                 to bill
                                                                                 each
                                                                                 incident as
                                                                                 an
                                                                                 independent
                                                                                 event with
                                                                                 custom
                                                                                 mitigation
                                                                                 rates, for
                                                                                 each
                                                                                 incident
                                                                                 using
                                                                                 itemized
                                                                                 rates
                                                                                 deemed
Itemized response                                                                usual,
                                                                                 customary
                                                                                 and
                                                                                 reasonable
                                                                                 (UCR).
                                                                                 These
                                                                                 incidents
                                                                                 will be
                                                                                 billed and
                                                                                 itemized
                                                                                 per
                                                                                 apparatus
                                                                                 and per
                                                                                 personnel,
                                                                                 plus
                                                                                 products
                                                                                 and
                                                                                 equipment
                                                                                 used.
Hazmat
Level 1 (basic response: claim will include engine response, first responder     $816
assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, set-up and command.)
Level 2 (intermediate response: claim will include engine response, first
responder assignment, hazmat certified team and appropriate equipment, perimeter $2,913
establishment, evacuations, set-up and command, Level A or B suit donning,
breathing air and detection equipment. Set-up and removal of decon center.)
Level 3 (advanced response: claim will include engine response, first responder
assignment, hazmat certified team and appropriate equipment, perimeter
establishment, evacuations, first responder set-up and command, Level A or B
suit donning, breathing air and detection equipment and robot deployment. Set-up
and removal of decon center, detection equipment, recovery and identification of $6,875
material. Disposal and environment clean up. Includes above in addition to any
disposal rates of material and contaminated equipment and material used at
scene. Includes 3 hours of on scene time - each additional hour @ $336 per
hazmat team.)
Additional time on-scene (all service levels)
                                                                                 Billed at
Engine                                                                           $466 per
                                                                                 hour
                                                                                 Billed at
Truck                                                                            $582 per
                                                                                 hour
Miscellaneous equipment                                                          Billed at
                                                                                 $341
Fire investigation
Fire investigation team. Includes: scene safety, investigation, source           $321 per
identification, K-9/arson dog unit, identification equipment, mobile detection   hour
unit, and fire report                                                             
The claim begins when the Fire Investigator responds to the incident and is billed for
logged time only.
Fires
                                                                                 $466 per
                                                                                 hour, per
Assignment (includes: scene safety, investigation, and fire/hazard control)      engine/$582
                                                                                 per hour,
                                                                                 per truck
                                                                                  
(1) This will be the most common “billing level”. This occurs almost every time the Fire
Department responds to an incident.
(2) Optional: A Fire Department has the option to bill each fire as an independent event
with custom mitigation rates.
(3) Itemized, per person, at various pay levels and for itemized products use.
Illegal fires
                                                                                 $466 per
                                                                                 hour, per
Assignment                                                                       engine/$582
                                                                                 per hour,
                                                                                 per truck
When a fire is started by any person or persons that requires a Fire Department response
during a time or season when fires are regulated or controlled by local or state rules,
provisions or ordinances because of pollution or fire danger concerns, such person or
persons will be liable for the Fire Department response at a cost not to exceed the actual
expenses incurred by the Fire Department to respond and contain the fire. Similarly, if a
fire is started where permits are required for such a fire and the permit was not obtained
and the Fire Department is required to respond to contain the fire the responsible party
will be liable for the response at a cost not to exceed the actual expenses incurred by the
Fire Department. The actual expenses will include direct labor, equipment costs and any
other costs that can be reasonably allocated to the cost of the response.
Water incidents
Level 1 (basic response: claim will include engine response, first responder     Billed at
assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, first responder set-up and     $466 plus
command, scene safety and investigation (including possible patient contact,     $58 per
hazard control). This will be the most common “billing level”. This occurs   hour, per
almost every time the Fire Department responds to a water incident.)             rescue
                                                                                 person
                                                                                 Billed at
Level 2 (intermediate response: includes Level 1 services as well as clean up    $932 plus
and material used (sorbents), minor hazardous clean up and disposal. We will     $58 per
bill at this level if the Fire Department has to clean up small amounts of       hour, per
gasoline or other fluids that are spilled as a result of the incident.)          rescue
                                                                                 person
                                                                                 Billed at
                                                                                 $2,334 plus
Level 3 (advanced response: includes Level 1 and Level 2 services as well as     $58 per
D.A.R.T. activation, donning breathing apparatus and detection equipment. Set up hour per
and removal of decon center, detection equipment, recovery and identification of rescue
material. Disposal and environment clean up. Includes above in addition to any   person,
disposal rates of material and contaminated equipment and material used at       plus $117
scene.)                                                                          per hour
                                                                                 per hazmat
                                                                                 team member
                                                                                 You have
                                                                                 the option
                                                                                 to bill
                                                                                 each
                                                                                 incident as
                                                                                 an
                                                                                 independent
                                                                                 event with
                                                                                 custom
                                                                                 mitigation
                                                                                 rates for
                                                                                 each
                                                                                 incident
                                                                                 using
                                                                                 itemized
                                                                                 rates
Level 4 (itemized response)                                                      deemed
                                                                                 usual,
                                                                                 customary
                                                                                 and
                                                                                 reasonable
                                                                                 (UCR).
                                                                                 These
                                                                                 incidents
                                                                                 will be
                                                                                 billed,
                                                                                 itemized,
                                                                                 per trained
                                                                                 rescue
                                                                                 person,
                                                                                 plus rescue
                                                                                 products
                                                                                 used
Back country or special rescue
                                                                                 Minimum
                                                                                 billed $466
                                                                                 for the
                                                                                 first
                                                                                 response
                                                                                 vehicle
                                                                                 plus $58
Itemized response: each incident will be billed with custom mitigation rates     per rescue
deemed usual, customary and reasonable (UCR). These incidents will be billed,    person.
itemized per apparatus per hour, per trained rescue person per hour, plus rescue Additional
products used.                                                                   rates of
                                                                                 $466 per
                                                                                 hour per
                                                                                 response
                                                                                 vehicle and
                                                                                 $58 per
                                                                                 hour per
                                                                                 rescue
                                                                                 person
Chief response
This includes the set-up of command and providing direction of the incident.     Billed at
This could include operations, safety, and administration of the incident.       $290 per
                                                                                 hour
Additional time on-scene (all service levels)
                                                                                 Billed at
Engine                                                                           $466 per
                                                                                 hour
                                                                                 Billed at
Truck                                                                            $582 per
                                                                                 hour
Miscellaneous equipment                                                          Billed at
                                                                                 $341
Gas leaks (natural)
Level 1 (natural gas leak outside without fire)
   Description: Minimal danger to life, property, and the environment, leak   Assignment:
typically for mechanical damage to a meter or pipe.                              $466 per
   Actions: Evacuate immediate area, notify gas company, evaluate hazards     hour, per
including exposures, environment, vehicular traffic and the like. Conduct fence  engine/$582
line monitoring to determine control zones. Remove ignition sources from the     per hour,
area, consider non-intervention strategy, if offensive tactics selected, ensure  per truck
proper PPE, respiratory protection, thermal protection, and tactics are           
utilized.
Level 2 (natural gas leak outside with fire)                                     Assignment:
   Description: Moderate danger to life, property, and the environment, leak  $748 per
typically caused from mechanical damage with nearby operating equipment (car,    hour, per
backhoe, and the like) causing a fire.                                           engine/$58
   Actions: Evacuate immediate area, notify gas company, protect hazards from per hour,
fire damage, do not extinguish the fire unless directed to do so by the gas      per rescue
company, consider water supply options.                                          person
Level 3 (natural gas leak inside structure)                                      Assignment:
   Description: Significant danger to life, property, and the environment, lea$932 per
is typically difficult to identify and locate.                                   hour, per
   Actions: Evacuate building and nearby structures, notify gas company,      engine/$58
position apparatus away from the structure, attempt to control gas where it      per hour,
enters the building, ventilate the building (using intrinsically safe methods),  per rescue
remove ignition sources from inside but shutting off power on the outside of the person
structure.
Mitigation rate notes
The mitigation rates above are average “billing levels”, and are typical for the incident
responses listed, however, when a claim is submitted, it will be itemized and based on the
actual services provided.
These average mitigation rates were determined by itemizing costs for a typical run (from
the time a fire apparatus leaves the station until it returns to the station) and are based
on the actual costs, using amortized schedules for apparatus (including useful life,
equipment, repairs, and maintenance) and labor rates (an average department’s “actual
personnel expense” and not just a firefighter's basic wage). The actual personnel expense
includes costs such as wages, retirement, benefits, workers comp, insurance, and the
like.   
 
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 2-13-2014; Ord. 2021-05, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 31.32 EMS DIVISION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Division in
Fire Department, within the city’s Public Safety Department.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 2-13-2014)
OFFICE OF PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 31.45 CREATION.
   (A)   The office of Public Safety shall be created. The Chief of Public
Safety is appointed by the City Manager.
   (B)   The office of Public Safety shall be responsible for primary law
enforcement/primary fire protection within its city and those jurisdictions as
authorized by interlocal agreements.
   (C)   (1)   The office of Public Safety is not subject to civil service
requirements or standards.
      (2)   All employees of the Department are unclassified employees
appointed under and subject to all of the applicable provisions of the
personnel policies of the city.
   (D)   The office of Public Safety is authorized by applicable local and
state laws for the discharge of official duties.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.46 DUTIES AND AUTHORITY.
   The office of Public Safety shall:
   (A)   Be an office created by the City Council;
   (B)   Have investigative duties, arrest powers and criminal case preparation
authority, as defined by local and state law;
   (C)   Perform law enforcement duties, as required by law, to ensure the
peace and to protect property;
   (D)   Perform primary fire protection, education/prevention, inspection of
new and existing structures and ensure compliance with application fire safety
codes;
   (E)   Oversee the Public Safety Communications Center; and
   (F)   Assist the office of Emergency Services as necessary in the event of
an emergency or criminal investigation into the cause and origin of fire or
other areas of lawful jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.47 REQUIREMENTS.
   All appointed and commissioned peace officers for the office of Public
Safety must comply with all rules and regulations for such appointment with the
state’s Commission of Law Enforcement Officer Standards and Education. All
peace officers for the office of Public Safety shall be peace officers as
stated in Tex. Code of Criminal Procedures § 2.12.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.48 CHIEF OF PUBLIC SAFETY; DUTIES.
   The Chief of Public Safety shall:
   (A)   Be commissioned and appointed as a peace officer under Tex. Code of
Criminal Procedure § 2.12;
   (B)   Perform duties as “Chief of Police” and may use such title;
   (C)   Oversee all operations of the office of Public Safety and its
personnel/volunteers;
   (D)   Appoint/delegate to those persons within the office of Public Safety,
which are capable of completing the tasks; and
   (E)   Serve as the city’s Assistant Emergency Management Coordinator (AEMC).
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.49 FIRE DEPARTMENT DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Fire Department shall:
   (A)   Be responsible for fire prevention education;
   (B)   Be responsible for the inspection of new commercial property, existing
commercial property and shall require compliance with applicable local, county,
state and federal laws for its occupancy. Enforcement, outside of plan approval
and inspection shall be done through the office of Emergency Services;
   (C)   Have a Chief of Operations and be commissioned as such by the state’s
Commission of Fire Protection; and
   (D)   Provide primary fire suppression and fire rescue within the city and
those areas where interlocal agreements for services are executed.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-29-2011)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or display
any emblem of the offices of Emergency Services, Emergency Management, Homeland
Security or Fire Department unless authority to do so has been granted to such
person by the Marshal. Conviction for such violations of the provisions of this
division (B)(1) shall be punishable by fine of not less than $300.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any section of §§
31.01 through
31.17 of this chapter, the Building Code, Health and Safety Code or the Fire
Code (as adopted). Conviction for such violations is subject to a fine of:
         (a)   First offense: fine not less than $75, plus applicable court
costs;
         (b)   Second offense: fine not less than $125, plus applicable court
costs;
         (c)   Third offense: fine not less than $300, plus applicable court
costs; and
         (d)   Subsequent offense: fine not less than $400, plus applicable
court costs, plus applicable legal action as deemed necessary by the court.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disregard a lawful order to
evacuate an affected area or to disregard a lawful order to divert traffic or
refuse to render aid to the Marshal or any person engaged in lawful duties
under §§
31.01 through
31.17 of this chapter. Conviction for such violation of §§
31.01 through
31.17 of this chapter is subject to a fine not less than $400 and/or forceful
removal from the affected area.
   (C)   Any person being convicted of any such misdemeanor, as set out in §
31.16 of this chapter, shall be fined in a sum not less than $100, nor more
than $1,000; provided, however, that, any person so convicted shall have the
right of appeal.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-29-2011)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Organization
   
32.02   Emergency Management Director; powers and duties
   
32.03   Emergency Management Plan
   
32.04   Interjurisdictional Program
   
32.05   Override
   
32.06   Liability
   
32.07   Commitment of funds
   
32.08   Violations
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 ORGANIZATION.
   There exists the office of Emergency Management Director of the city, which
shall be held by the Mayor in accordance with state law.
   (A)   An Emergency Management Coordinator may be appointed by and serve at
the pleasure of the Director.
   (B)   The Director shall be responsible for a program of comprehensive
emergency management within the city and for carrying out the duties and
responsibilities set forth in this chapter. The Mayor may delegate authority
for execution; however, responsibility shall remain with the Director.
   (C)   The operational Emergency Management Organization of the city shall
consist of the officers and employees of the city so designated by the Director
in the emergency management plan, as well as organized volunteer groups. The
functions and duties of this organization shall be distributed among such
officers and employees in accordance with the terms of the Emergency Management
Plan.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 32.02 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Emergency Management Director shall
include the following:
   (A)   Surveying actual or potential hazards which threaten life and property
within the city and identifying and requiring or recommending the
implementation of measures which would tend to prevent the occurrence or reduce
the impact of such hazards if a disaster did occur;
   (B)   Supervision of the development and approval of an Emergency Management
Plan for the city and shall recommend for adoption by the City Council all
mutual aid arrangements deemed necessary for the implementation of such plan;
   (C)   Authority to declare a local state of disaster. The declaration may
not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days, except by or
with the consent of the City Council. Any order or proclamation declaring,
continuing or terminating a local state of disaster shall be given prompt and
general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the City Secretary;
   (D)   Issuance of necessary proclamations, regulations or directives which
are necessary for carrying out the purposes of this chapter. Such
proclamations, regulations or directives shall be disseminated promptly by
means calculated to bring its contends to the attention of the general public
and, unless circumstances attendant on the disaster prevent or impede, promptly
filed with the City Secretary;
   (E)   Direction and control of the operations of the city’s Emergency
Management Organization, as well as the training of emergency management
personnel;
   (F)   Determination of all questions of authority and responsibility that
may arise within the Emergency Management Organization of the city;
   (G)   Maintenance of liaison with other municipal, county, district, state,
regional or federal emergency management organizations;
   (H)   Marshaling of all necessary personnel, equipment or supplies from any
department of the city to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the
Emergency Management Plan;
   (I)   Supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements, in
cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other local political
subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if deemed desirable,
of an agreement with the county and with other municipalities within the
county, for the county-wide coordination of emergency management efforts;
   (J)   Supervision of, and final authorization for, the procurement of all
necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private contributions
which may be offered for the purpose of improving emergency management within
the city;
   (K)   Authorizing of agreements, after approval by the City Attorney, for
use of private property for public shelter and other purposes;
   (L)   Surveying the availability of existing personnel, equipment, supplies
and services which could be used during a disaster, as provided for herein; and
   (M)   Other requirements as specified in the state’s Disaster Act (Tex.
Government Code Ch. 418).
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 32.03 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   A comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall be developed and
maintained in a current state. The plan shall: set forth the form of the
organization; establish and designate divisions and functions; assign
responsibilities, tasks, duties and powers; and designate officers and
employees to carry out the provisions of this chapter. As provided by state
law, the plan shall follow the standards and criteria established by the
state’s Division of Emergency Management. Insofar as possible, the form of
organization, titles and terminology shall conform to the recommendations of
the state’s Division of Emergency Management. When approved, it shall be the
duty of all departments and agencies to perform the functions assigned by the
plan and to maintain their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness
at all times.
   (B)   The Emergency Management Plan shall be considered supplementary to
this chapter and have the effect of law during the time of a disaster.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 32.04 INTERJURISDICTIONAL PROGRAM.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to join with the County Judge and the mayors
of the other cities in said county in the formation of an interjurisdictional
emergency management program for the county and shall have the authority to
cooperate in the preparation of an interjurisdictional emergency management
plan and in the appointment of a joint Emergency Management Coordinator, as
well as all powers necessary to participate in a county-wide program of
emergency management insofar as said program may affect the city.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 32.05 OVERRIDE.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede and override
all existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter
may be inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 32.06 LIABILITY.
   This chapter is an exercise by the city of its governmental functions for
the protection of the public peace, health and safety and neither the city, the
agents and representatives of said city, nor any individual, receiver, firm,
partnership, corporation, association or trustee, nor any of the agents
thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to comply
with, any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to persons as the result
of said activity. Any person owning or controlling real estate or other
premises who voluntarily and without compensation grants to the city a license
of privilege, or otherwise permits the city to inspect, designate and use the
whole or any part or parts of such real estate or premises for the purpose of
sheltering persons during an actual, impending or practice enemy attack or
natural or human-made disaster shall, together with his or her successors in
interest, if any, not be civilly liable for the death of, or injury to any
person on or about such real estate or premises under such license, privilege
or other permission or for loss of, or damage to, the property of such person.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 32.07 COMMITMENT OF FUNDS.
   No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city in
carrying out any emergency management activity authorized by this chapter
without prior approval by the City Council, nor shall any person have any right
to bind the city by contract, agreement or otherwise without prior and specific
approval of the City Council unless during a declared disaster. During a
declared disaster, the Mayor may expend and/or commit public funds of the city
when deemed prudent and necessary for the protection of health, life or
property.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 8-16-2005) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.08 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder or
delay any member of the Emergency Management Organization in the enforcement of
any rule or regulation issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or display
any emblem, insignia or any other means of identification as a member of the
Emergency Management Organization of the city, unless authority to do so has
been granted to such person by the proper officials.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 8-16-2005) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Convictions for violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 8-16-2005)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
Electioneering
   
33.01   Introduction
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Prohibited conduct
ELECTIONEERING
§ 33.01 INTRODUCTION.
   In an effort to comply with the state’s Election Code, as recently amended
by the 83rd Legislative Session, the city has established the following policy
to regulate the time, place and manner of electioneering city-owned property.
(Ord. 2014-08, passed 3-18-2014)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EARLY VOTING PERIOD. The period described by Tex. Election Code § 85.001.
   ELECTIONEERING. The posting, use or distribution of political signs or
literature.
   VOTING PERIOD. The period beginning when the polls open for voting and
ending when the polls close or the last voter has voted, whichever is later.
(Ord. 2014-08, passed 3-18-2014)
§ 33.03 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, electioneering is prohibited at all times
on city-owned property not designated as a polling location.
   (B)   Electioneering will not be allowed at any time within 100 feet of the
polling location when that location is a city-owned property in accordance with
the state’s Election Code.
   (C)   Electioneering will be allowed outside the 100-foot marker at polling
locations owned by the city, but only during the early voting period and the
voting period and at no time before, during or after. This means electioneering
on city-owned property can only take place during the early voting period and
voting period. Signage and literature can only be left over night during the
early voting period or voting period, but not later than one hour after the
early voting period or voting period ends.
   (D)   The city will not allow tractors, trailer, tents, use of loudspeakers,
microphones, megaphone, amplified devices or any other activity not defined as
“electioneering” on city-owned property any at time before, during or after the
early voting period and the voting period. The use of any type of incendiary
equipment such as, but not limited to, barbeque pits or any flammable or
combustible equipment or supplies are strictly prohibited on city-owned
property.
   (E)   The city will allow prepared food and beverages such as water or drink
that does not contain alcohol. The consumption or distribution of alcoholic
beverages or illegal drugs on city property at any time before, during or after
the early voting period and the voting period is strictly prohibited.
   (F)   Threatening or harassing conduct and the use of inappropriate language
will not be allowed and may result in the removal of any candidate, measure or
political party.
   (G)    The city will allow the placement of one political sign per
candidate, regardless of whether the candidate is on a slate, no larger than
four feet by eight feet on designated city owned property during the early
voting period and the voting period. The distribution of literature or other
political materials will not be allowed within the 100-foot marker.
   (H)   The city parking lots are for public use and to conduct official city
business; therefore, use of handicapped or designated parking spaces will not
be allowed for electioneering purposes. All others parking spaces or available
area will be limited to one parking space or the equivalent of one parking
space per candidate, measure or political party.
   (I)   Persons with political signs, literature or other political material
(i.e., to conduct electioneering) may enter city-owned property no earlier than
12:00 p.m. of the day before the first day of early voting, and shall remove
all signage, literature or materials no later than one day after election day.
If there is no early voting on city-owned property, then persons with political
signs, literature or other political material (i.e., to conduct electioneering)
may enter city-owned property no earlier than 12:00 p.m. of the day before the
election day, and shall remove all signage, literature or materials no later
than one day after election day. This section applies to general elections,
special elections, and run-off elections.
   (J)   Electioneering will occur in the designated areas only. Spots will be
allocated for each local candidate via lottery system. This will occur at the
same time as the candidate draws for their spot on the ballot. These spots
shall be designated for the entire voting period, including early vote,
election day, and run-off election period.
   (K)   Electioneering spots will be no larger than a standard 10x10 tent.
   (L)   Caravans of any sort will not be allowed in any of the parking lots or
streets leading up to the polling sites.
   (M)   To ensure compliance with this section, candidates will receive a copy
of all rules and regulations and will sign for them to acknowledge such.
(Ord. 2014-08, passed 3-18-2014; Ord. 2021-18-O, passed 9-7-2021; Ord. 2022-17-
O, passed 9-29-2022)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Collecting delinquent fees
Taxation
   
34.15   Tax Code
   
34.16   Hotel occupancy tax
   
34.17   Telecommunications tax
Funds
   
34.30   Municipal Court Technology Fund
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 COLLECTING DELINQUENT FEES.
   In accordance with Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure § 103.0031, there shall
be imposed an additional fee of 30% on all debts and accounts receivable (i.e.,
fines, fees, restitution, other debts and costs that are more than 60 days past
due and have been referred to a private firm for collection).
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-2-2008)
TAXATION
§ 34.15 TAX CODE.
   (A)   Ad valorem taxes that remain delinquent on July 1 of the year in which
they become delinquent shall incur an additional penalty to defray cost of
collection, said penalty to be in the amount of 15% of the amount of taxes,
penalty and interest due the city. The Tax Collector of this jurisdiction is
hereby directed to cause to be mailed, during the month of May, notices to all
delinquent taxpayers, where addresses are available, of the additional penalty
to be imposed, as hereinabove provided.
   (B)   If any provision of this section or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect
other provisions or application of this section which can be given effect
without the invalid provision or application and, to this end, the provisions
of this chapter are declared to be severable. It is further specially provided
that if the penalty herein provided ever be finally adjudicated to be in excess
of the amount permitted by any applicable law, then such penalty nevertheless
shall be valid and collectible for the maximum amount allowed by law.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 34.16 HOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   A tax levy of 7% of the price paid for a room in a hotel on every
person who, under a lease, concession, permit, right of access, license,
contract or agreement, pays for the use or possession or for the right to the
use or possession of a room that is in a hotel, costs $2 or more each day, is
ordinarily used for sleeping and is located within the city or within the
city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) is hereby assessed. The price of a
room in a hotel does not include the cost of food served by the hotel and the
cost of personal services performed by the hotel for the person, except those
services related to the cleaning and readying of the room for possession.
      (2)   Exceptions are as follows.
         (a)   No tax shall be imposed hereunder upon a permanent resident so
long as there is no interruption of payment for the period of his or her right
to use or possess a room.
         (b)   No tax shall be imposed hereunder for federal or state employees
traveling on business.
         (c)   No tax shall be imposed hereunder for diplomatic personnel who
present a tax exemption card issued by the United States Department of State.
         (d)   No tax shall be imposed hereunder for federal or state military
personnel traveling on official military business. This exemption does not
cover military staff on leave or between stations.
         (e)   No tax shall be imposed hereunder upon the United States, the
state or an agency, institution, board or commission of the state other than an
institution of higher education.
   (B)   Collection of tax.
      (1)   Every person owning, operating, managing or controlling any hotel
shall collect the tax levied by this section for the city.
      (2)   The hotel operator shall be entitled to 1% of the hotel occupancy
tax revenues collected as reimbursement for the operator’s administrative costs
for collecting the tax. However, this reimbursement may be forfeited at the
discretion of the city if the hotel operator fails to timely pay the tax or
timely file a report as required by the city or files a false report with the
city.
   (C)   Monthly reports.
      (1)   On the twentieth day of the month following the reporting period,
every person required to collect the tax imposed hereby shall file a report
with the Finance Director showing the monthly total receipts, taxable receipts
and any other information the Finance Director may reasonably require. Such
person shall pay the tax due on such occupancies at the time of filing such
report. The report shall be in a form prescribed by the Finance Director.
Reports and payment must be postmarked by the twentieth day or it will be
considered late and may be subject to a penalty of $50 for each period it is
late. A hotel operator may request to the Finance Director to report quarterly
if the tax owed is less than $500 for a calendar month or $1,500 for a calendar
quarter.
      (2)   The tax and report will be due by the twentieth day of the
following month after the reporting quarter has ended, as prescribed below:
 
Quarter     Months                      Due Date
1st quarter January, February, March    April 20
2nd quarter April, May, June            July 20
3rd quarter July, August, September     October 20
4th quarter October, November, December January 20
 
      (3)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized and directed to do all
such things necessary or convenient to carry out the terms of this section. The
Finance Director shall have the authority to request and receive within a
reasonable time documentation of information contained in the report to the
city by the hotel.
   (D)   Audit and access to books and records. The Finance Director shall have
the power to make such rules and regulations as are reasonable and necessary to
effectively collect the tax levied hereby and shall, upon reasonable notice,
have access to books and records necessary to determine the correctness of any
report filed as required by this section and the amount of taxes due under the
provisions of this section.
   (E)   Violations: penalties and interest on delinquent taxes. A penalty of
5% of the tax due shall be imposed on a hotel which fails to pay a tax imposed
by this section when due. If the hotel fails to pay the tax within 30 days
after the day on which it is due, an additional 5% shall be imposed. However,
such penalty shall never be less than $1. Delinquent taxes shall draw interest
at the rate of 10% per annum beginning 60 days from the due date.
   (F)   Additional enforcement actions. The city is hereby authorized to take
the following actions against any person required to collect the tax imposed
hereby and pay the collection over to the city and who has failed to file a
report or filed a false report or failed to pay the tax when due:
      (1)   Require the forfeiture of any revenue the city allowed the hotel
operator to retain for its cost of collecting the tax;
      (2)   Bring suit against the hotel for non-compliance; and/or
      (3)   Bring suit against the hotel seeking any other remedies provided
under state law.
   (G)   Suit to collect tax or enjoin operation of business. The City Attorney
is hereby authorized to bring suit against any person required to collect the
tax imposed on and required to pay the collection over to the city and who have
failed to file a report or filed a false report or failed to pay the tax when
due. Such suit may seek to collect such tax not paid or to enjoin such person
from operating a hotel in the city until the tax is paid or the report is
filed, or both, as applicable and as provided in the injunction.
   (H)   Use of revenue derived from the levy of the hotel occupancy tax.
      (1)   Revenue from the municipal hotel occupancy tax may be used only to
promote tourism and the convention and hotel industry, and that use is limited
to the following:
         (a)   The acquisition of sites for and the construction, improvement,
enlarging, equipping, repairing, operation and maintenance of convention center
facilities or visitor information centers or both;
         (b)   The furnishing of facilities, personnel and materials for the
registration of convention delegates or registrants;
         (c)   Advertising and conducting solicitations and promotional
programs to attract tourists and convention delegates or registrants to the
municipality or its vicinity;
         (d)   The encouragement, promotion, improvement and application of the
arts, including instrumental and vocal music, dance, drama, folk art, creative
writing, architecture, design and allied fields, painting, sculpture,
photography, graphic and craft arts, motion pictures, radio, television, tape
and sound recording and other arts related to the presentation, performance,
execution and exhibition of these major art forms; and
         (e)   Historical restoration and preservation projects or activities
of advertising and conducting solicitations and promotional programs to
encourage tourists and convention delegates to visit preserved historic sites
or museums, at or in the immediate vicinity of convention center facilities or
visitor information centers; or located elsewhere in the municipality or its
vicinity that would be frequented by tourists and convention delegates.
      (2)   Revenue derived from the tax authorized by this section shall be
expended in a manner directly enhancing and promoting tourism and the
convention and hotel industry as permitted by Tex. Tax Code Ch. 351 and that
revenue may not be used for the general revenue purposes or general
governmental operations of the city.
   (I)   Administrative requirements, accountability and keeping of records.
      (1)   The City Council may by contract, delegate to one or more persons,
including another governmental entity or a private organization (“contracting
entity”), the management or supervision of programs and activities funded with
revenue from the hotel occupancy tax. The City Council shall approve in
writing, in advance the annual budget of the contracting entity and shall
require it to make periodic reports to the City Council at least annually,
listing the expenditures made by the contracting entity of the hotel occupancy
tax revenue provided by the municipality.
      (2)   The contracting entity shall maintain hotel occupancy tax revenue
in a separate account established for that purpose and may not commingle that
revenue with any other money or maintain it in any other account.
      (3)   The municipality may not delegate to any person or entity the
management or supervision of its convention and visitors programs and
activities funded with revenue from the hotel occupancy tax other than by
contract, as provided herein.
      (4)   The approval by the City Council of the annual budget of the
contracting entity creates a fiduciary duty in the contracting entity with
respect to the revenue provided by the municipality to the contracting entity.
      (5)   The contracting entity shall maintain complete and accurate
financial records of each expenditure of hotel occupancy tax revenue made by
the contracting entity and, on request of the City Council or other authorized
person, shall make the records available for inspection and review.
      (6)   Hotel occupancy tax revenue spent for authorized purposes may be
spent for day-to-day operations, supplies, salaries, office rental, travel
expenses and other administrative costs only if those administrative costs are
incurred directly in the promotion and servicing expenditures. If the
municipality or other entity conducts an activity for which hotel occupancy tax
revenue may be used, and such activity is a joint activity with another non-
authorized activity, then the portion of the total administrative costs of the
entity for which hotel occupancy tax revenue may be used and may not exceed the
portion of those administrative costs actually incurred in conducting the
activities for which the hotel occupancy tax revenue may be used.
      (7)   Hotel occupancy tax revenue may not be spent for travel for a
person to attend an event or conduct an activity, the primary purpose of which
is not directly related to the promotion of tourism and the convention and
hotel industry or the performance of the person’s job in an efficient and
professional manner.
(Ord. 17-1212-01, passed 12-12-2017) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.17 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby authorized pursuant to Tex. Tax Code § 321.203(g)
(Consummation of Sale) on all telecommunications services sold within the
city’s Crime Control and Prevention District. For purposes of this section, the
sale of telecommunications services is consummated at the location of the
telephone or other telecommunications device from which the call or other
communication originates. If the point of origin cannot be determined, the sale
is consummated at the address to which the call or other communication is
billed.
   (B)   The rate of the tax imposed by this section shall be the same as the
rate imposed by the city’s Crime Control and Prevention District for all other
local sales and use taxes as authorized by the legislature of the state.
   (C)   The City Secretary shall forward to the Comptroller of the state, by
United States registered mail, a copy of this section along with a copy of the
minutes of the City Council’s vote and discussion on this section.
   (D)   The city repeals the application of the exemption for
telecommunications provided in Tex. Tax Code § 321.210 (Telecommunications
Exception), effective on the date permitted by law.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 6-19-2007)
FUNDS
§ 34.30 MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FUND.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created and established a Municipal Court
Technology Fund (hereinafter referred to as the “Fund”), pursuant to Tex. Code
of Criminal Procedure § 102.0172.
      (2)   The Fund may be maintained in an interest bearing account. The
account will be titled the “Municipal Court Technology Fund”.
   (B)   (1)   The fee shall be $4.
      (2)   The fee shall be assessed and collected from a defendant upon
conviction for a misdemeanor offense in the Municipal Court. A defendant is
considered “convicted” if:
         (a)   A sentence is imposed on the person;
         (b)   The person is placed on community supervision, including
deferred adjudication community supervision; or
         (c)   The court defers final disposition of the person’s case.
      (3)   The fee shall be collected on conviction for an offense committed
on or after the effective date of this section.
      (4)   The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall collect the fee and pay the
fee to the Municipal Treasurer of the city for deposit into the Fund to be
known as the “Municipal Court Technology Fund”.
   (C)   (1)   The Fund shall be used only to finance the purchase of
technological enhancements for the Municipal Court, including:
         (a)   Computer systems;
         (b)   Computer networks;
         (c)   Computer hardware;
         (d)   Computer software;
         (e)   Imaging systems;
         (f)   Electronic kiosks;
         (g)   Electronic ticket writers; or
         (h)   Docket management systems.
      (2)   The Fund shall be administered by, or under the direction of, the
City Council.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 11-18-2003)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
34.16 of this chapter, including hotel operators who fail to collect the tax,
fail to file a return, file a false return or are delinquent in their tax
payment, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined
in any sum not to exceed $500; and every 24 hours of any such violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 17-1212-01, passed 12-12-2017)
CHAPTER 35: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
35.01   Fee Schedule
§ 35.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Master Fee Schedule for the year beginning 10-1-2018 is as follows:
Description Authority Source Fee
Description                                                                     Authority Fee
                                                                                Source
   Fire Department
Building permit new construction base fee                                       Ord.      $400
                                                                                2013-14
                                                                                          $200 for the
                                                                                Ord.      first
   $200,000 up to $1,000,000                                                 2013-14   $200,000 plus
                                                                                          $1.10 per
                                                                                          $1,000
                                                                                          $1,040 for
                                                                                Ord.      the first
   $1,000,000 up to $5,000,000                                               2013-14   $1,000,000
                                                                                          plus $0.55
                                                                                          per $1,000
                                                                                          $3,240 for
                                                                                Ord.      the first
   More than $5,000,000                                                      2013-14   $5,000,000
                                                                                          plus $0.25
                                                                                          per $1,000
FDC line installation permit                                                    Ord.      $50
                                                                                2013-14
Sprinkler system permit                                                         Ord.      $200
                                                                                2013-14
   Up to 200 heads                                                           Ord.      $60
                                                                                2013-14
                                                                                Ord.      $0.50 per
   More than 200 heads                                                       2013-14   head $1,500
                                                                                          max
Fire alarm system permit                                                        Ord.      $100
                                                                                2013-14
   Up to 200 devices                                                         Ord.      $100
                                                                                2013-14
                                                                                Ord.      $0.50 per
   More than 200 devices                                                     2013-14   device $500
                                                                                          max
Commercial hood installation                                                    Ord.      $120
                                                                                2013-14
Smoke control system                                                            Ord.      $120
                                                                                2013-14
Alternative automatic FE system permit                                          Ord.      $150
                                                                                2013-14
New business occupancy inspection                                               Ord.      $100
                                                                                2013-14
Annual business occupancy inspection                                            Ord.      $50
                                                                                2013-14
Operations fee schedule                                                                   
   Group home/daycare/foster home insp.                                      Ord.      $75
                                                                                2013-14
   Adult daycare                                                                      $125
   Fire department standby                                                   Ord.      $75 per hour
                                                                                2013-14
   Hazardous condition standby                                               Ord.      $300 per hour
                                                                                2013-14
   Commercial business burn permit                                           Ord.      $75
                                                                                2013-14
   Burning permit                                                                     $50
                                                                                Ord.      Double the
Working/operating without a permit                                              2019-08-O regular
                                                                                          permit fee
Certificate of occupancy                                                        Ord.      $25
                                                                                2019-09-O
Annual health permit                                                                     $50
New health permit                                                                        $100
Fire alarm                                                                               $25
   Firework stand                                                                     $200
Underground storage tank inspection                                             Ord.      $75 per tank
                                                                                2013-14
Above storage tank inspection                                                   Ord.      $50 per tank
                                                                                2013-14
10,000 gallons or less                                                          Ord.      $75 per tank
                                                                                2013-14
Above 10,000 gallons                                                            Ord.       
                                                                                2013-14
Duplicate permits                                                               Ord.      $5
                                                                                2013-14
Preliminary plan review, per hour                                               Ord.      $75
                                                                                2013-14
Second reinspection                                                             Ord.      $30
                                                                                2013-14
   Planning/Code Enforcement Department
Residential building permit                                                               
   Residential new construction (total square footage)                       Ord.      $50 plus
                                                                                2019-11-O $0.16/sq ft
Non-residential building permit                                                           
   Non-residential new construction (total valuation)                                  
      $100-$1,000                                                         Ord.      $50
                                                                                2019-11-O
                                                                                          $50 for first
                                                                                          $1,000 plus
                                                                                Ord.      $5 for each
      $1,001-$50,000                                                      2019-11-O additional
                                                                                          $1,000 or
                                                                                          fraction
                                                                                          thereof
                                                                                          $295 for
                                                                                          first $50,000
                                                                                          plus $4 for
      $50,0001-$100,000                                                   Ord.      each
                                                                                2019-11-O additional
                                                                                          $1,000 or
                                                                                          fraction
                                                                                          thereof
                                                                                          $495 for
                                                                                          first
                                                                                          $100,000 plus
      $100,001-$500,000                                                   Ord.      $3 for each
                                                                                2019-11-O additional
                                                                                          $1,000 or
                                                                                          fraction
                                                                                          thereof
                                                                                          $1,695 for
                                                                                          first
                                                                                          $500,000 plus
      $500,001-$1,000,000                                                 Ord.      $2 for each
                                                                                2019-11-O additional
                                                                                          $1,000 or
                                                                                          fraction
                                                                                          thereof
                                                                                          $2,695 for
                                                                                          first
                                                                                          $1,000,000
                                                                                Ord.      plus $1 for
      $1,000,001 and above                                                2019-11-O each
                                                                                          additional
                                                                                          $1,000 or
                                                                                          fraction
                                                                                          thereof
Valuation cost per square foot for commercial construction                      Ord.      $105
                                                                                2019-11-O
Valuation cost per square foot for residential/pier and beam construction                $96/70
Residential/commercial building permits                                         Ord. 89-4  
   Storage room                                                              Ord.      $50 plus
                                                                                2019-08-O 0.10/sq ft
   Driveway                                                                  Ord.      $50 plus
                                                                                2019-08-O 0.10/sq ft
                                                                                Ord.      $50 plus
   Fence                                                                     2019-08-O 0.20/linear
                                                                                          ft
                                                                                          $125
   Swimming pool                                                             Ord.      residential,
                                                                                2019-08-O $175
                                                                                          commercial
   Carport/porch/patio                                                       Ord.      $50 plus
                                                                                2019-08-O 0.10/sq ft
Additions/remodeling                                                            Ord.      $50 plus
                                                                                2019-08-O 0.10/sq ft
                                                                                          Based on
Permit renewal                                                                  Ord.      percent of
                                                                                2019-08-O project
                                                                                          complete
Electrical permits                                                                        
   T-pole                                                                    Ord.      $50
                                                                                2019-08-O
   Working clearance                                                         Ord.      $100
                                                                                2019-08-O
   Service switch                                                            Ord.      $50
                                                                                2019-08-O
   Electrical service and circuits                                           Ord.      $50 plus $5
                                                                                2019-08-O per circuit
   New service                                                                        $50
   Reconnect service                                                                  $50
                                                                                          $150
   Solar panel                                                                        residential,
                                                                                          $300
                                                                                          commercial
                                                                                          $50 plus $20
                                                                                Ord.      for one ton
Mechanical permits                                                              2019-08-O plus $15/
                                                                                          additional
                                                                                          ton
Plumbing permits                                                                          
                                                                                Ord.      $50 plus $5/
   Fixtures                                                                  2019-08-O fixture or
                                                                                          repair
   Water heaters                                                             Ord.      $50
                                                                                2019-08-O
   Mud trap/grease trap                                                      Ord.      $100
                                                                                2019-08-O
   Gas outlets                                                               Ord.      $50 plus $5/
                                                                                2019-08-O outlet
                                                                                          $100
   Irrigation                                                                         residential,
                                                                                          $150
                                                                                          commercial
Sign permits                                                                              
   Electrical sign                                                                     
      $0-$2,000 value                                                     Ord.      $35
                                                                                2016-07A
      $2,000-$4,000 value                                                 Ord.      $60
                                                                                2016-07A
      $4,000-$8,000 value                                                 Ord.      $90
                                                                                2016-07A
                                                                                Ord.      $130 plus $5/
      Over $8,000                                                         2016-07A  $1,000 over
                                                                                          $8,000
   Non-electrical sign                                                                 
      $0-$2,000 value                                                     Ord.      $20
                                                                                2016-07A
      $2,000-$4,000 value                                                 Ord.      $45
                                                                                2016-07A
      $4,000-$8,000 value                                                 Ord.      $70
                                                                                2016-07A
                                                                                Ord.      $80 plus $5/
      Over $8,000                                                         2016-07A  $1,000 over
                                                                                          $8,000
Miscellaneous                                                                             
                                                                                          $100 plus
   Moving/demolition                                                         Ord.      notification
                                                                                2019-08-O and asbestos
                                                                                          report
   Storage room moving fee                                                   Ord.      $50
                                                                                2019-08-O
   Business license permit                                                   Ord.      $100
                                                                                2019-08-O
   Business license permit annual renewal                                    Ord.      $80
                                                                                2019-08-O
   Building contractor license                                               Ord.      $100
                                                                                2019-08-O
   Building contractor license annual renewal                                         $50
   Occupational license                                                               $100
   Occupational license annual renewal                                                $50
   Beer license                                                                       $60
                                                                                          $50 plus $500
   Excavation permit                                                                  for boring
                                                                                          and road
                                                                                          excavation
   Inspection fee                                                            Ord.      $50
                                                                                2019-08-O
   Re-inspections                                                            Ord.      $30 per trade
                                                                                2013-05
                                                                                          $30 per trade
                                                                                Ord.      for each
   Second and subsequent re- inspections                                     2019-08-O additional
                                                                                          re-
                                                                                          inspection
   After hours inspection                                                    Ord.      $75
                                                                                2019-08-O
                                                                                          $50 plus
   Facility inspection                                                                0.65/mile if
                                                                                          outside city
                                                                                          limits
   Site plan review                                                          Ord.      $250 plus
                                                                                2019-08-O applications
   Construction plan review                                                  Ord.       
                                                                                2019-08-O
   Subdivision application                                                   Ord.      $500
                                                                                2019-08-O
                                                                                Ord.      4% of
   Subdivision inspection                                                    2019-08-O construction
                                                                                          value
                                                                                Ord.      4% of
   Construction materials and testing fee                                    2019-08-O construction
                                                                                          value
   Park fee in lieu of dedication of land                                    Ord.      $500 per
                                                                                2019-08-O dwelling unit
   Garage sale                                                               Ord.      $10 per day
                                                                                2019-08-O
   Conditional use permit                                                    Ord.      $450
                                                                                2019-08-O
   CUP review                                                                         $100
   Rezoning                                                                  Ord.      $450
                                                                                2019-08-O
   Variance                                                                  Ord.      $300
                                                                                2013-05
   Lein procession                                                           Ord.      $150
                                                                                2013-05
                                                                                          $5
   Pet registration fee                                                      Ord.      sterilized,
                                                                                2019-08-O $15
                                                                                          nonsterilized
   Animal control admin fee                                                           $35
   Quarantine fee                                                                     $225
                                                                                          As per
   Impound fee                                                                        shelter
                                                                                          agreements
   Surrender fee                                                                      $150
   Duplicate permits                                                                  $10
   Certificate of occupancy                                                           $50
   Zoning compliance letter                                                           $25
   Court Department
Violation                                                                                 
   1 to 10 miles more than speed limit                                                $201
   11 miles more than speed limit                                                     $203
   12 miles more than speed limit                                                     $205
   13 miles more than speed limit                                                     $207
   14 miles more than speed limit                                                     $209
   15 miles more than speed limit                                                     $211
   16 miles more than speed limit                                                     $213
   17 miles more than speed limit                                                     $215
   18 miles more than speed limit                                                     $217
   19 miles more than speed limit                                                     $219
   20 miles more than speed limit                                                     $221
   21 miles more than speed limit                                                     $223
   22 miles more than speed limit                                                     $225
   23 miles more than speed limit                                                     $227
   24 miles more than speed limit                                                     $229
   25 miles more than speed limit                                                     $231
   26 miles more than speed limit                                                     $233
   27 miles more than speed limit                                                     $235
   28 miles more than speed limit                                                     $237
   29 miles more than speed limit                                                     $239
   30 miles more than speed limit                                                     $241
   Attempt to purch. A.B. by minor                                                    $515
   Assault                                                                            $515
   Consumption of alchohol by minor                                                   $515
   Criminal mischief                                                                  $418
   Curfew violation                                                                   $221
   Cut across driveway to make turn                                                   $211
   Cut corner left turn                                                               $211
   Cut in after passing                                                               $211
   Defective equipment                                                                $211
   Disorderly conduct                                                                 $317
   Disregarded no passing zone                                                        $211
   Disregarded red light/stop sign                                                    $211
   Drag racing/acceleration/context speed                                             $337
   Driving under influence/A.B. and or minor                                          $515
   Driving on restricted access                                                       $211
   Driver or pass. open door in traffic                                               $211
   Drove on from prohibited acc.                                                      $211
   Drove on wrong side of road                                                        $211
   Drove on wrong way on one way road                                                 $211
   Drug paraphernalia                                                                 $515
   Exhibition of acceleration                                                         $317
   Expired DL                                                                         $208
   Expired MVI/LP                                                                     $197.50
   Failure to appear                                                                  $266
   Fail to control speed                                                              $231
   Fail to drive in a single lane                                                     $211
   Fail to report DL change of address                                                $208.20
   Fail to signal turn lt/rt                                                          $211
   Fail to yield emergency vehicle                                                    $245
   Fail to stop remain stop for school bus                                            $286.90
   Failure to identify                                                                $245
   Following too closely                                                              $211
   Littering                                                                          $211
   Loose animals                                                                      $267
   Minor in poss. A.B.                                                                $515
   No driver’s license                                                              $197.50
      Second offence                                                               $214.10
      Third or more offence                                                        $239.10
   No financial resp. (ins)                                                           $335.20
      Second or more offence                                                       $514.20
   No digging out-loud notice                                                         $317
   No loitering                                                                       $215
   No seat belt w/ required passengers                                                $247
   No seat belt driver                                                                $247
   Open bed under 18                                                                  $286
   Open container                                                                     $316.90
   Parked in handicap/no id card                                                      $164
   Poss. drug paraphernalia                                                           $515
   Public int. by minor                                                               $515
   Purchase A.B. by minor                                                             $317
   Selling tobacco prod. to minor                                                     $317
   Speeding in school zone                                                            $286.90
   Speeding in construction zone                                                      $221
   Suspended driver’s license                                                       $248.20
   Theft under $50                                                                    $515
   Tobacco poss./pur/consum/recpt by minor                                            $317
   Transport loose material/unsecure load                                             $450
   Truck route                                                                        $221
   Turn when unsafe                                                                   $211
   Unrestrained child (4-17 years of age)                                             $200
   Unrestrained child (4 years or under)                                              $200
   Unsafe start                                                                       $337
   Unlawful dumping trash/private property                                            $315
   Use equipment not app.                                                             $211
   Violate DL restriction                                                             $211
   No cab card-tow truck                                                              $214
   Police Department
Wrecker fees                                                                              
   Annual fee                                                                Ord.      $100
                                                                                2018-08-O
   Annual inspection fee per wrecker unit                                    Ord.      $35
                                                                                2018-08-O
   Government entity/law enforcement fee                                     Ord.      $15
                                                                                2018-08-O
   Stored/abandoned fee (only applicable to wrecker companies within         Ord.       
incorporated city limits)                                                       2018-08-O
   Late fee (charged only if renewal of permit is not postmarked by midnight Ord.      $50
January 31)                                                                     2018-08-O
Other                                                                                     
   Accident reports                                                                   $6
   Fingerprints                                                                       $6
   Alarm permit (monitored by alarm company)                                          $25
   Alarm permit B (not monitored by alarm company- audible)                           $50
   Alarm permit (renewal)                                                             $25
   Pro-rate (operation date after July of calendar year)(renewal fee reinstat         $12.50
January 1 of following year)
   False alarm fine (alarms exceeding 5 false alarms per calendar year)            $50 each
                                                                                          $50 for
   Security permit                                                           Ord.      general
                                                                                2019-08-O business/$75
                                                                                          daycare
   Funeral processions/police escort                                                  $150 per unit
   Parks and Recreation
Sports registration (baseball, basketball, flag football, soccer, volleyball)            $45
Track and golf registration                                                              $50
Youth center registration                                                                $20/annually
Summer camp registration (June and July)                                                 $125
Adult sports teams                                                                       $250
Weekend park rental                                                                      $800
   3 fields                                                                           $800
   4 fields                                                                           $1,100
   Deposit                                                                            $300
Gym rental                                                                               $300/day
   Deposit                                                                            $100
Pavilion rental                                                                          $375
   Deposit                                                                            $60
Field rental for practice                                                                 
   No lights                                                                          $20/hr
   With lights                                                                        $30/hr
Gym practice rental                                                                      $20/hr
   Solid Waste/Public Works
Solid waste                                                                               
   Set up fee                                                                Ord.      $6
                                                                                2021-04-O
   Deposit- 96 gallon bins                                                   Ord.      $50
                                                                                2021-04-O
   Late fee                                                                  Ord.      $5
                                                                                2021-04-O
   Modification fee                                                          Ord.      $3
                                                                                2021-04-O
   Reinstatement fee                                                         Ord.      $7.50
                                                                                2021-04-O
   NSF fee                                                                   Ord.      $25
                                                                                2021-04-O
   Container removal fee                                                     Ord.      $50
                                                                                2021-04-O
   Residential                                                                         
      One cart                                                            Ord.      $22/month
                                                                                2021-04-O
      Two carts                                                           Ord.      $29.57/month
                                                                                2021-04-O
      Three carts                                                         Ord.      $47.50
                                                                                2021-04-O
      Four carts                                                          Ord.      $82
                                                                                2021-04-O
   Commercial                                                                          
      One cart                                                            Ord.      $27.23
                                                                                2021-04-O
      Two carts                                                           Ord.      $41.56
                                                                                2021-04-O
      Three carts                                                         Ord.      $60.56
                                                                                2021-04-O
Weedy lot mowing                                                                         $150/hour
                                                                                Ord.      $10/hour
   Staff hours                                                               2019-08-O times number
                                                                                          of staff
                                                                                          $500 plus
   Debris removal and abatement                                              Ord.      $30/ton plus
                                                                                2019-08-O staff plus
                                                                                          equipment
      Moving                                                              Ord.      $65/hour
                                                                                2008-06
      Shredder                                                            Ord.      $65/hour
                                                                                2008-06
      Back hoe                                                            Ord.      $85/hour
                                                                                2008-06
   Emergency Medical Services
Resident                                                                                  
   ALS2                                                                               $2,864*
   ALS-emergency                                                                      $2,864*
   BLS-emergency                                                                      $2,144*
   Treatment/no transport                                                             $315*
Non-resident                                                                              
   ALS2                                                                               $3,044*
   ALS-emergency                                                                      $3,224*
   BLS-emergency                                                                      $2,324*
   Treatment/no transport                                                             $344*
*Amount to change based on new state and federal policies.
   Public Utilities
Empty lot sewer connection fee                                                            
   Residential                                                               Ord.      $3,157
                                                                                2018-02-O
   Commercial                                                                Ord.      $4,157
                                                                                2018-02-O
   Passports
Passport Photos                                                                          $15
Notary Services                                                                          $6
Copies                                                                                   $1
   Public Library
Fines and Fees                                                                            
   Circulating books and other medium                                        Ord.      $0.05 per day
                                                                                2018-08-O to $10
                                                                                          Replacement
   Lost or damaged material                                                  Ord.      cost plus
                                                                                2018-08-O $2.50
                                                                                          handling fee
   Replacement library cards                                                 Ord.      $2
                                                                                2018-08-O
   Paper and printouts                                                       Ord.      $0.10 per
                                                                                2018-08-O copy
   Color printouts                                                           Ord.      $1 per page
                                                                                2018-08-O
   Photocopies                                                               Ord.      $0.15 per
                                                                                2018-08-O copy
 
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-29-2007; Ord. 2018-02-O, passed 2-6-2018; Ord. 2018-04-
O, passed 3-20-2018; Ord. 2018-17-O, passed 11-20-2018; Ord. 2019-08-O, passed
8-6-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-11-O, passed 9- 17-2019; Ord. 2021-04-O, passed 4-20-
2021; Ord. 2023-11-O, passed 9-26-2023)
CHAPTER 36: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
Generally
   
36.01   Policy and purposes
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Prohibition against involvement in actions affecting economic interests
   
36.04   Standards of conduct
   
36.05   Contracts with city; eligibility for appointment or election to office
   
36.06   Restrictions on former employees
Ethics Review Commission
   
36.10   Established; composition
   
36.11   Organization; rules and regulations
   
36.12   Authority and duties
   
36.13   Complaints; review and hearings; sanctions for violation
   
36.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 36.01 POLICY AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   General policy statement. It is the policy of the city that all city
officials and employees shall conduct themselves both inside and outside the
city's service so as to give no occasion for distrust of their integrity,
impartiality or devotion to the best interest of the city and the public trust
which the city holds.
   (B)   Appearance of impropriety. Public service is a public trust. All city
officials and employees are stewards of the public trust. They have a
responsibility to the citizens of the city to administer and enforce the City
Charter and city ordinances. To ensure and enhance public confidence in city
government, each city official and employee must strive not only to maintain
technical compliance with the principles of ethical conduct set forth in this
chapter and in state law, but also to avoid the appearance of impropriety at
all times.
   (C)   This Code of Ethics has five purposes:
      (1)   To encourage ethical conduct on the part of city officials and
employees;
      (2)   To encourage public service with the city;
      (3)   To establish standards for ethical conduct for city officials and
employees by defining and prohibiting conduct that is incompatible with the
interests of the city;
      (4)   To require disclosure by city officials and employees of their
economic interests that may conflict with the interests of the city; and
      (5)   To serve as a basis for disciplining those who fail to abide by its
terms.
   (D)   This Code of Ethics is not intended to be used as a political weapon
or to intimidate or embarrass affected persons. The officials charged with
administration of this Code of Ethics shall administer it in a manner that
avoids any such use of this Code of Ethics.
(Ord. 2019-01-O, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BENEFIT. Anything reasonably regarded as pecuniary gain or pecuniary
advantage, including any money, real or personal property, purchase, sale,
lease, contract, option, credit, loan, discount, service or other tangible or
intangible thing of value. BENEFIT includes a pecuniary gain or pecuniary
advantage to any other person in whose welfare the beneficiary has a direct and
substantial interest.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. A sole proprietorship, partnership, firm, corporation,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, unincorporated
association, or any other entity recognized by law, including a nonprofit
organization or governmental entity.
   ECONOMIC INTEREST. Includes a legal or equitable interest in real property,
personal property, or intangible property, or a contractual right. Service by a
city official or employee as an officer, director, advisor, or other active
participant in a nonprofit educational, religious, charitable, fraternal, or
civic organization does not create for that city official or employee an
economic interest in the property of the organization. Ownership of an interest
in a mutual or common investment fund that holds securities or other assets is
not an economic interest in the securities or other assets unless the person in
question participates in the management of the fund.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person employed by the city, whether under civil service
regulations or not, including those individuals on a part-time basis, and
employees of an independent contractor that serve as a staff liaison to a city
board or commission.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. The spouse, children, brothers, sisters and parents of an
officer or employee. This definition if necessary shall be supplemented with
the Tex. Government Code Ch. 573.
   OFFICER or OFFICIAL. The Mayor or any member of the City Council and any
appointive member of a city board, commission or committee established by
ordinance, charter or state law on a permanent basis, and members of temporary
boards and commissions.
(Ord. 2019-01-O, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 36.03 PROHIBITION AGAINST INVOLVEMENT IN ACTIONS AFFECTING ECONOMIC
INTERESTS.
   (A)   General rule. It is unlawful for a city official or employee to take
any official action that he or she knows is likely to:
      (1)   Affect an economic interest of:
         (a)   The official or employee;
         (b)   His or her immediate family member;
         (c)   A member of his or her household;
         (d)   An outside employer of the official or employee or of his or her
immediate family member;
         (e)   A business entity in which the official or employee or his or
her immediate family member holds an economic interest;
         (f)   A business entity for which the city official or employee serves
as an officer or director or in any other policy making position; or
         (g)   A person or business entity from whom the official or employee,
or his or her immediate family member, has solicited, received and not
rejected, or accepted any benefit or an offer of employment within the past 24
months; or
      (2)   Confer a benefit on the official or employee, or deprive the
official or employee of a benefit, where the effect of the action on the
official or employee is distinguishable from the effect of the action on
members of the public in general or a substantial segment of the public.
   (B)   Meaning of AFFECT.
      (1)   In division (A)(1) above, an action is likely to affect an
official's or employee's economic interest if it meets all of the following:
         (a)   The action is likely to have an effect on that interest, either
positive or negative, that is distinguishable from its effect on members of the
public in general or a substantial segment of the public.
         (b)   The effect of the action on that interest is direct, and not
secondary or indirect. However, the action need not be the only producing cause
of the effect in order for the effect to be direct.
         (c)   The effect on the interest must be more than insignificant or de
minimis in nature or value.
      (2)   In determining whether a person, entity or property is or was
affected by a vote or decision, it will not be necessary to prove the actual
existence or occurrence of an economic effect or consequence if the effect or
consequence would be reasonably expected to exist or occur.
   (C)   Recusal and disclosure. A city official or employee whose conduct
would otherwise violate division (A) above, or a state conflict of interest
law, if he or she took an action must abstain from participation in the action
in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Immediately refrain from further participation in the matter,
including communications with any persons likely to consider the matter, such
as any department, agency, commission or board of the city, from the time he or
she discovers or reasonably should have discovered the matter triggering the
recusal and until a decision regarding the matter has been made by the council,
board or commission having final approval authority;
      (2)   Promptly file a form for disclosing the nature and extent of the
interest triggering the recusal with the City Clerk, if the person is an
official, or with the person's supervisor, if the person is an employee;
      (3)   Promptly notify the person's supervisor of the nature and extent of
the interest triggering the recusal, if the person is a city employee, so that
the supervisor can reassign responsibility for handling the matter to another
person; and
      (4)   Promptly disclose the interest triggering the recusal, if the
person is a member of a city board or commission, to other members of the board
or commission, and leave the room in which the board or commission is meeting
during the board or commission's discussion of, or voting on, the matter.
(Ord. 2019-01-O, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 36.04 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Standards for immediate family members. It is unlawful for an
immediate family member to intentionally or knowingly:
      (1)   Solicit, accept or agree to accept from another person any benefit
that the member's relative, who is a city officer or employee, is prohibited
from soliciting, accepting or agreeing to accept under state law;
      (2)   Misuse any official information obtained from the member's
relative, who is a city officer or employee, to which the relative has access
by virtue of the relative's office or employment and that has not been made
public, in a manner prohibited as to the relative under state law; or
      (3)   Misuse, as defined in Tex. Penal Code § 39.01, any city property,
services, personnel or any other thing of value belonging to the city that has
come into the member's custody or possession by virtue of the office or
employment of the member's relative who is a city officer or employee.
   (B)   Representation and appearance at meetings.
      (1)   No city officer or employee shall knowingly:
         (a)   Appear before the body of which the officer or employee is a
member, as a representative for any private person, including the officer or
employee or any immediate family member, or any group or interest;
         (b)   Represent, directly or indirectly, any private person, including
the officer or employee or any immediate family member, or any group or
interest in any action or proceeding against the interests of the city or in
any litigation in which the city or any department, agency, commission or board
thereof is a party;
         (c)   Accept other employment or engage in outside activities
incompatible with the full and proper discharge of city duties or that might
impair independent judgment in the performance of city duties; or
         (d)   Make a false statement of material fact at a public meeting.
      (2)   This division shall not be construed to deprive an officer or
employee of the right to due process under the law, including the right to
represent himself/herself in a court proceeding.
   (C)   Representation by Council members. No City Council member shall
knowingly represent any private person, including the City Council member or
any immediate family member, or any group or interest in any matter before any
department, agency, commission or board of the city, except that City Council
members may represent their interests in their owner-occupied homesteads before
a board, agency, commission or department of the city other than the City
Council.
   (D)   Representation in municipal court. In any action or proceeding in the
municipal court which is instituted by a city officer or employee in the course
of official duties:
      (1)   No City Council member shall knowingly represent any private person
other than himself or herself. If a City Council member elects to have a trial
in municipal court, the City Council, without the participation of the affected
City Council member, will appoint a special judge to preside over the trial.
      (2)   No city officer or employee shall knowingly represent any private
person other than himself or herself, including any immediate family member, or
any group or interest.
   (E)   Representation in land use and development matters. A member of the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall not knowingly represent the member or any
other person, group or interest in any matter before the Zoning Board of
Adjustments involving land use or development, and a member of the Zoning Board
of Adjustments shall not knowingly represent the member or any other person,
group or interest in any matter before the Planning and Zoning Commission
involving land use or development. This division does not apply to members
representing their interests in their owner-occupied homesteads.
   (F)   Prohibited use of city position. A city official or employee shall not
use his or her position to unfairly advance or impede private interests, or to
grant or secure, or attempt to grant or secure, for any person (including
himself or herself) any form of special consideration, treatment, exemption, or
advantage beyond that which is lawfully available to other persons. A city
official or employee who represents to a person that the official or employee
may provide an advantage or impediment to the person based on the official's or
employee's office or position violates this rule.
(Ord. 2019-01-O, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 36.05 CONTRACTS WITH CITY; ELIGIBILITY FOR APPOINTMENT OR ELECTION TO OFFICE.
   (A)   No member of the City Council and no city employee shall have a
financial interest in the sale to the city of any land, materials, supplies or
service, outside of the person's position with the city. Any person having an
interest shall be ineligible for election as a City Council member or
appointment as a city employee, and any City Council member or city employee
who acquires an interest shall forfeit the office or employment. Any violation
of this division with the actual or constructive knowledge of the City Council
member or employee shall render the contract voidable by the City Manager or
the City Council.
   (B)   In division (A) above, the term SALE TO THE CITY includes a sale to
city-sponsored entities and organizations subject to substantial control by the
city in one or more of the following respects:
      (1)   All or a majority of the governing body of the entity or
organization is appointed by the City Council;
      (2)   The city provides more than one-half of the operating funds of the
entity or organization;
      (3)   The city has approval authority over purchasing decisions made by
the entity or organization;
      (4)   The city has approval authority over bonds or other indebtedness
issued by the entity or organization; or
      (5)   The city has approval authority over the budget of the
organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to acquisition of property by the city as
a result of eminent domain proceedings or the threat of eminent domain
proceedings.
(Ord. 2019-01-O, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 36.06 RESTRICTIONS ON FORMER EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   (1)   No former city employee shall, for a period of two years from
the date of leaving city employment, knowingly:
         (a)   Appear at a meeting of a board or commission staffed by members
of the department of which the employee was a member, as a representative for
any private person, including the employee or any immediate family member, or
any group or interest;
         (b)   Represent, directly or indirectly, any private person, including
the former employee or any immediate family member, or any group or interest in
any action or proceeding against the interests of the city or in any litigation
in which the city or any department, agency, commission or board thereof is a
party.
      (2)   This division shall not be construed to deprive a former employee
of the right to due process under the law, including the right to represent
himself/herself in a court proceeding.
   (B)   In any action or proceeding in the municipal court which is instituted
by a city officer or employee in the course of official duties, no former city
employee shall, for a period of two years from the date of leaving city
employment, knowingly represent any private person other than himself or
herself, including any immediate family member, or any group or interest.
   (C)   For a period of two years from the date of leaving employment, a
former city employee shall not have any financial interest in the sale to the
city of any land, materials, supplies or service. Any violation of this
division with the actual or constructive knowledge of the former city employee
shall render the contract voidable by the City Manager or the City Council.
This division shall not apply to a former city employee whose employment was
terminated as part of a reduction in force or to a former employee whose skills
or experience are so unique that failure to contract with him or her would be a
detriment to the city as determined by the City Manager.
(Ord. 2019-01-O, passed 1-15-2019)
ETHICS REVIEW COMMISSION
§ 36.10 ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION.
   An Ethics Review Commission is established, to be composed of five members,
all of whom shall NOT be involved in the alleged violation at hand. Members of
the Commission will include City Attorney, City Manager, Police Chief, Human
Resources Director, and Fire Chief.
(Ord. 2019-01-O, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 36.11 ORGANIZATION; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Ethics Review Commission each year will elect from its membership its
chairperson and will promulgate its own rules and regulations as to its forms
and procedures and maintain proper records of its opinions and proceedings.
(Ord. 2019-01-O, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 36.12 AUTHORITY AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Ethics Review Commission shall act as authorized by the
City Council and at no time violate the City Charter specifically concerning
conflicts of interest, ethical conduct or interests of city officials and
employees.
   (B)   Review and recommendations. The Commission will meet at least once a
year to review this chapter and may make recommendations to the City Council.
   (C)   Hearings. The Commission shall consider and conduct hearings on
complaints of violations of this chapter and of state conflict of interest
laws.
   (D)   Advisory opinions. The Commission shall render advisory opinions on
advice of legal counsel on potential conflicts of interest or violation of this
chapter at the request of a public official or employee subject to the terms of
this chapter. The opinion must relate to an action proposed to be taken by the
person requesting the opinion.
   (E)   Opinions binding. Any advisory opinion rendered by the Commission to a
person is binding on the Commission in any subsequent complaint concerning the
person about whom the opinion was requested and who acted in reliance on it in
good faith, unless material facts were omitted or misstated by the person in
connection with the opinion.
(Ord. 2019-01-O, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 36.13 COMPLAINTS; REVIEW AND HEARINGS; SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Complaint procedure.
      (1)   Any resident or employee of the city who believes a person has
violated a provision of this chapter or a state conflict of interest law may
file a written complaint with the City Attorney. The complaint must (If
complaint lacks any of these elements it will not be considered):
         (a)   Identify the complainant and the person who allegedly committed
the violation;
         (b)   Provide a sufficient statement of the facts which if true would
constitute a prima facie violation of a provision of this chapter or a state
conflict of interest law;
         (c)   Specify the provision of this chapter or a state conflict of
interest law which is alleged to have been violated;
         (d)   Identify sources of evidence, if any, that the complainant
recommends should be considered by the Commission;
         (e)   Be filed on a form prescribed by the Commission available on
demand from the City Attorney.
      (2)   The City Attorney will acknowledge the receipt of the complaint to
the complainant and provide a copy of the complaint to the Commission and to
the person accused within seven business days of accepting the complaint form.
   (B)   Review of complaints by Commission.
      (1)   The Commission shall review each complaint in executive session
prior to conducting a hearing to determine whether the complaint is in proper
form and alleges sufficient facts to constitute a prima facie violation of a
provision of this chapter or a state conflict of interest law.
      (2)   If the Commission determines that the complaint is defective in
form or does not allege sufficient facts to constitute a prima facie violation
of a provision of this chapter or a state conflict of interest law, the
Commission shall dismiss the complaint, and provide notice, including the
reasons for the dismissal, to the complainant and to the person accused.
      (3)   If the Commission determines that the complaint is in proper form
and alleges sufficient facts to constitute a prima facie violation of a
provision of this chapter or a state conflict of interest law, the Commission
shall schedule a hearing on the complaint.
   (C)   Hearings.
      (1)   The Commission will adopt rules of procedure to govern hearing on
complaints. The rules will allow for the presentation of evidence by the
complainant and the person accused, and cross examination of witnesses.
      (2)   The Chair of the Commission or any person acting in that capacity,
and the Recording Secretary of the Commission, are authorized to administer
oaths to persons who testify at hearings conducted by the Commission.
   (D)   Ex parte communications. It is unlawful for a person who has filed a
complaint alleging a violation of this chapter or a state conflict of interest
law by a city officer or employee, or a person against whom such a complaint
has been filed, to communicate verbally or in writing about the subject matter
of the complaint with a member of the Ethics Review Commission at any time
other than during a public meeting of the Commission. All such communications
by such persons to the Commission outside of a public meeting of the Commission
must be directed to the City Attorney. The City Attorney will collect all such
communications and provide them to the Commission with the agenda materials for
the meeting at which the complaint is considered. The City Attorney will make
copies of these communications available to interested persons in accordance
with state law.
   (E)   Sanctions. If the Commission determines at the conclusion of a hearing
that a violation has occurred, it may impose or recommend any of the following
sanctions:
      (1)   A letter of notification, if the violation is clearly
unintentional, or when the official or employee's action was made in reliance
on a written opinion of the City Attorney. A letter of notification shall
advise the official or employee of any steps to be taken to avoid future
violations.
      (2)   A letter of admonition, if the Commission finds that the violation
is minor and may have been unintentional, but calls for a more substantial
response than a letter of notification.
      (3)   (a)   A reprimand, if the Commission finds that the violation:
            1.   Was minor and was committed knowingly, intentionally or in
disregard of this chapter or a state conflict of interest law; or
            2.   Was serious and may have been unintentional.
         (b)   A copy of any reprimand directed to an official shall be sent to
the City Council. A copy of any reprimand directed to an employee shall be sent
to the City Manager and included in the employee's personnel file.
      (4)   (a)   A recommendation of suspension from office or employment, if
the Commission finds that the violation:
            1.   Was serious and that was committed knowingly, intentionally or
in disregard of this chapter or a state conflict of interest law; or
            2.   Was minor but similar to a previous violation by the person,
and was committed knowingly, intentionally or in disregard of this chapter or a
state conflict of interest law.
         (b)   A recommendation of suspension of an official appointed by the
City Council shall be transmitted to the City Council, and the Council will
have final authority on whether to impose a suspension. A recommendation of
suspension of a employee shall be directed to the City Manager, who will have
final authority on whether to impose a suspension.
      (5)   A recommendation for recall or removal from office or employment,
if the Commission finds that the violation was serious and was committed
knowingly, intentionally or in disregard of this chapter or a state conflict of
interest law. A recommendation for recall of a City Council member or removal
of an official appointed by the City Council will be forwarded to the City
Council. A recommendation for removal of an employee will be forwarded to the
City Manager.
      (6)   In addition to a sanction under divisions (E)(1) through (5) above,
the Commission may recommend to appropriate authorities that a person be
prosecuted for a violation of this chapter or a state conflict of interest law.
(Ord. 2019-1-O, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be punished,
upon conviction thereof, by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   The penalties prescribed in the preceding division do not limit the
power of the City Manager to discipline employees under the City Manager's
supervision or the power of the City Council to discipline its members for
violations of this chapter or a state conflict of interest law.
(Ord. 2019-1-O, passed 1-15-2019)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   General provisions
   
50.02   Definitions
Pollution Prevention and Erosion Control at Construction Sites
   
50.20   General provisions
   
50.21   Stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWP3)
   
50.22   Issuance of a building permit or site development permit
   
50.23   City inspection of construction sites
   
50.24   Contents of stormwater pollution prevention plan
   
50.25   Effective date of coverage
   
50.26   Retention of records
Illicit Discharges
   
50.35   Intent
   
50.36   Allowable non-stormwater discharges
   
50.37   Prohibited discharges
   
50.38   Mandatory reporting and clean-up of any discharge or release
   
50.39   Abatement of illicit conditions and assessment and collection of
expenses
Right of Entry, Inspection, and Sampling
   
50.50   Right of entry, inspection, and sampling
Enforcement
   
50.60   Violations
   
50.61   Notices of violation and stop work orders
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   It is the policy of the City of Palmview, and the intent of this chapter, to
reduce pollution and contamination entering the city’s separate stormwater
sewer system (MS4) to the greatest extent practicable. Discharges to the city’s
MS4 that cause or contribute to a violation of water quality standards or that
fail to protect and maintain the aquatic life use of the Arroyo Colorado are
hereby prohibited. New sources or new discharges to the city's MS4 of the
oxygen-demanding substances, nutrients and sediments are not authorized by this
chapter unless otherwise allowable under NPDES, TPDES, and the Texas
Administrative Code.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Activities, prohibitions, maintenance procedures,
structural controls, local ordinances, and other management practices to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as codified at 33
U.S.C. 1251-1376.
   COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A construction activity that is
completed in separate stages or phases or in combination with other
construction activities. A common plan of development or sale is identified by
plats, blueprints, marketing plans, contracts, building permit applications, a
public notice or hearing, zoning requests, or other similar documentation.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY (LARGE). Construction activities that result in land
disturbance of five or more acres of land. Large construction activity also
includes the disturbance of less than five acres of land area that is part of a
common plan of development or sale that will ultimately disturb five or more
acres of land.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY (SMALL). Construction activities including clearing,
grading, and excavating that result in land disturbance of one or more but less
than five acres of land. Small construction activity also includes the
disturbance of less than one acre of total land area that is part of a larger
common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will ultimately
disturb one or more but less than five acres of land.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE OPERATOR. The person or persons associated with a small or
large construction project that is either:
      (1)   The person or persons that have operational control over
construction plans and specifications including approval of revisions to the
extent necessary to meet the requirements and conditions of state and federal
law, including TPDES or NPDES permits allowing stormwater discharge; or
      (2)   The person or persons that have day-to-day operational control of
those activities at a construction site that are necessary to ensure compliance
with a stormwater pollution prevention plan for the site.
   CONVEYANCE. Streets, curbs, gutters, man-made channels and ditches, drains,
pipes, and other constructed features designed or used for drainage or flood
control or to otherwise transport stormwater runoff.
   DISCHARGE. The drainage, release, or disposal of pollutants in stormwater
and certain non-stormwater from areas where land disturbing activities,
construction materials, equipment storage or maintenance, or other industrial
activities are located.
   FINAL STABILIZATION. Where the following conditions are met:
      (1)   All soil disturbing activities have been completed and a uniform
perennial vegetative cover with a density of 70% of the native background
vegetative cover for the area has been established on all unpaved areas and
areas not covered by permanent structures, or equivalent permanent
stabilization measures (such as the use of riprap, gabions, or geotextiles)
have been employed;
      (2)   For individual lots in a residential construction site either:
         (a)   The homebuilder completes final stabilization as specified in
division (1) above; or
         (b)   The homebuilder establishes temporary stabilization for an
individual lot prior to the time of transfer of the ownership of the home to
the buyer and informs the homeowner of the need for, and benefits of, final
stabilization; and
      (3)   For construction activities on land used for agricultural purposes
(e.g. pipelines across crop or range land), final stabilization may be
accomplished by returning the disturbed land to its preconstruction
agricultural use. Areas disturbed that were not previously used for
agricultural activities, such as buffer strips immediately adjacent to a
surface water and areas which are not being returned to their preconstruction
agricultural use must meet the final stabilization conditions of division (1)
above.
   GROUND WATER INFILTRATION. Groundwater that enters the MS4 (including storm
sewer service connections and foundation drains) through such means as
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any human-made conveyance connecting an illicit
discharge directly to the MS4.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the MS4 that is not entirely composed of
stormwater, except discharges allowed pursuant to state or federal law,
including TPDES or NPDES permits allowing stormwater discharge or a separate
authorization.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES. Manufacturing, processing, material storage and
disposal areas, and similar areas where stormwater can contact industrial
pollutants related to the industrial activity at an industrial facility
described by the TPDES Multi-Sector General Permit, TXR 050000, as it may be
amended, or by another TPDES or NPDES permit.
   LAND DISTURBANCE (OR SOIL DISTURBANCE). Any activity which involves the
physical movement or disturbance of earth material by mechanized means. This
includes excavating, filling, stockpiling, clearance of vegetation, grading,
compaction of soil, creation of borrow pits, or combination thereof. LAND
DISTURBANCE does not include plowing, seeding, planting, cultivating, or
harvesting on a farm, including lands that have been lying fallow as part of a
conventional rotational cycle. LAND DISTURBANCE does not include routine
maintenance performed to maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic
capacity and purpose of a ditch, channel or other similar storm water
conveyance. LAND DISTURBANCE does not include routine grading of existing dirt
roads, asphalt overlays of existing roads, routine clearing of existing right-
of-ways or other similar maintenance activities.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. The technology-based discharge standard for MS4s
to reduce pollutants in stormwater discharges established by the Clean Water
Act.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). The conveyance or system of
conveyances including roads, streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches,
man-made channels, or storm drains that are owned or operated by the City of
Palmview, the Palmview Irrigation District, Cameron County or the Texas
Department of Transportation and that are designed or used for collecting or
conveying stormwater; but which are not a combined sewer (sanitary sewer and
stormwater) and are not part of the city's sanitary sewer collection system.
   MS4 OPERATOR. For the purpose of this chapter, the City of Palmview.
   NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
   POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confirmed, and discrete conveyance, including
but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation,
landfill leachate collection system, vessel or other floating craft from which
pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does not include return flows
from irrigated agriculture or agricultural stormwater runoff.
   POLLUTANTS OF CONCERN. Those pollutants identified as a cause of impairment
of the Arroyo Colorado and including biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), and
sediment or parameters that address sediment such as total suspended solids,
turbidity or siltation.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing into
groundwater, subsurface soils, surface soils, the MS4, the surface water of the
state, or the waters of the United States.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the city for the alteration of
the ground for the construction or installation of utilities, streets,
sidewalks, structures designed to control erosion and run-off and other grading
activities that are not a part of a project that requires a building permit.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (SWMP). A comprehensive program to manage the
quality of discharges into and from Palmview's MS4.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. Rainfall runoff, snow melt runoff, and surface runoff and
drainage.
   STRUCTURAL CONTROLS. A pollution prevention practice that requires the
construction or use of a device to capture or prevent pollution in stormwater
runoff. Structural controls and practices may include but are not limited to:
wet ponds, bio-retention, infiltration basins, stormwater wetlands, silt
fences, earthen dikes, drainage swales, vegetative lined ditches, vegetative
filter strips, sediment traps, check dams, subsurface drains, storm drain inlet
protection, rock outlet protection, reinforced soil retaining systems, gabions,
and temporary or permanent sediment basins.
   SURFACE WATER IN THE STATE. Lakes, bays, ponds, impounding reservoirs,
springs, rivers, streams, creeks, estuaries, wetlands, marshes, inlets, canals,
the Gulf of Mexico from the mean high water level out 10.36 miles into the
Gulf, and all other bodies of surface water, natural or artificial, inland or
coastal, fresh or salt, navigable or non-navigable, and including the beds and
banks of all water-courses and bodies of surface water, that are wholly or
partially inside or bordering the state or subject to the jurisdiction of the
state; except that waters in treatment systems which are authorized by state or
federal law or permit, and which are created for the purpose of waste treatment
are not considered to be water in the state.
   TPDES. Texas Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES.
      (1)   All waters which are currently used, were used in the past, or may
be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign commerce, including all waters
which are subject to the ebb and flow of the tide;
      (2)   All interstate waters, including interstate wetlands;
      (3)   All other waters such as intrastate lakes, rivers, streams
(including intermittent streams), mudflats, sandflats, wetlands, sloughs,
prairie potholes, wet meadows, playa lakes, or natural ponds that the use,
degradation, or destruction of which would affect or could affect interstate or
foreign commerce including any such waters:
         (a)   Which are or could be used by interstate or foreign travelers
for recreational or other purposes;
         (b)   From which fish or shellfish are or could be taken and sold in
interstate or foreign commerce; or
         (c)   Which are used or could be used for industrial purposes by
industries and interstate commerce;
      (4)   All impoundments of waters otherwise defined as waters of the U.S.;
      (5)   Tributaries of waters identified in divisions (1) through (4) of
this definition;
      (6)   The territorial sea;
      (7)   Wetlands adjacent to waters (other than waters that are themselves
wetlands) identified in divisions (1) through (6); and
      (8)   Waste treatment systems, including man-made treatment ponds,
lagoons or wetlands designed to meet the requirements of CWA, are not waters of
the United States.
   WETLAND. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at
a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for
life in saturated soil conditions. WETLANDS generally include swamps, marshes,
bogs, and similar areas.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
POLLUTION PREVENTION AND EROSION CONTROL AT CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 50.20 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The intent of this subchapter is to implement and enforce a program to
reduce pollutants in stormwater runoff from construction activities. To that
end, all construction site operators, at a minimum, must:
   (A)   As a pre-condition to receiving a building permit for a small
construction site, prepare and submit a stormwater pollution prevention plan
(SWP3);
   (B)   For projects that do not require a building permit, but will require
excavation, fill or grading or more than one acre of land, such as the
construction or installation of utilities, new drainage ways, streets, or
sidewalks, apply for a site development permit and prepare and submit a SWP3;
   (C)   Except, no SWP3 is required to perform emergency work needed to
protect life or property;
   (D)   For construction sites that will disturb less than one acre of land,
the following provisions apply:
      (1)   No SWP3 need be prepared or submitted;
      (2)   Construction site operators are responsible for retaining all soil
and sediment on-site and off of adjacent properties and the public right-of-
way. This includes dust control and control of vehicle tracking of dirt off-
site;
      (3)   Soil and sediment that leaves the construction site must be
cleaned-up daily; and
      (4)   Proper provision for solid waste, construction debris and sanitary
waste must be made and maintained; and
   (E)   The operator of a construction site required to have a TPDES permit to
discharge stormwater shall submit a copy of the notice of intent to the city at
the same time the operator submits the original notice of intent (NOI) to the
TCEQ. The copy of the NOI may be delivered to the city either in person or by
mailing it to: Public Works Director, City of Palmview, 400 W. Veterans Blvd.,
Palmview, TX 78572.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 50.21 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWP3).
   (A)   Prior to commencing any construction activity and prior to receiving a
building or site development permit from the city, construction site operators
that are required by the NPDES or the TPDES to obtain a permit to discharge
stormwater must:
      (1)   Develop and submit for review and approval a SWP3 that covers the
entire site;
      (2)   Post a signed copy of the notice at the construction site where it
can be readily viewed;
      (3)   Ensure the project specifications allow or provide that adequate
BMPs will be developed and modified as necessary to meet the requirements of
the SWP3; and
      (4)   Ensure all contractors and sub-contractors are aware of the
requirements of the SWP3, that on-site personnel are responsible for the day-
to-day implementation of and adherence to the SWP3, and who to contact
concerning SWP3 compliance.
   (B)   The SWP3 must:
      (1)   Be completed and initially implemented prior to commencing
activities that result in land disturbance;
      (2)   Provide for compliance with the terms and conditions of this
chapter and the NPDES and TPDES for stormwater;
      (3)   Be available at the construction site or readily available at the
time of an on-site inspection to TCEQ, the EPA, or city personnel;
      (4)   Be amended whenever there is a change in design, construction,
operation, or maintenance that may have a significant effect on the discharge
of pollutants or that was not been previously addressed in the SWP3; or because
inspections by the site operator, TCEQ, EPA or city indicate the SWP3 is
ineffective in eliminating or minimizing pollutants in discharges; and
      (5)   Identity the person or persons responsible for implementation of
the plan.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 50.22 ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT OR SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   Before authorizing the issuance of a building permit or a site development
permit, the city will review the proposed site plan and SWP3, as well as
construction documents, for compliance with this chapter and the NPDES and
TPDES for stormwater.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 50.23 CITY INSPECTION OF CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   City building inspection, Code Enforcement and Public Works staff and the
City Engineer are hereby authorized to inspect construction sites for the
purpose of ensuring compliance and enforcement of control measures contained in
the SWP3s and this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 50.24 CONTENTS OF STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.
   The stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWP3) required pursuant to this
chapter, the Clean Water Act, NPDES, and TPDES must include the following
information.
   (A)   The SWP3 must include a project description which includes the
following:
      (1)   The nature of the construction activity, potential pollutants and
sources;
      (2)   The intended schedule or sequence of major activities that will
disturb soils;
      (3)   The number of acres of the entire construction site property and
the total number of acres of the site where construction activities will occur,
including off-site material storage areas, overburden and stockpiles of dirt,
and borrow areas;
      (4)   The soil type and the quality of any existing discharge from the
site;
      (5)   A map showing the general location of the site (e.g. a portion of a
city or county map);
      (6)   A detailed site map indicating the following activities;
         (a)   Areas where soil disturbance will occur;
         (b)   Areas which will not be disturbed;
         (c)   Locations of all major structural controls either planned or in
place;
         (d)   Locations where stabilization practices are expected to be used;
         (e)   Locations of off-site material, waste, borrow or equipment
storage areas;
         (f)   Surface waters (including wetlands) either adjacent or in close
proximity; and
         (g)   Locations where stormwater discharges from the site directly to
a surface water body;
      (7)   The location and description of asphalt plants and concrete plants
(if any) providing support to the construction site and that are also
authorized under the General Permit TXR 150000, as it may be amended; and
      (8)   The name of receiving waters at or near the site that will be
disturbed or that will receive discharges from disturbed areas of the project.
   (B)   The following records must be either attached to or referenced in the
SWP3 and made readily available upon request to the City of Palmview, TCEQ or
the EPA:
      (1)   The dates when major grading activities occur;
      (2)   The dates when construction activities temporarily or permanently
cease on a portion of the site; and
      (3)   The dates when stabilization measures are initiated.
   (C)   The SWP3s must identify and describe the best management practices
(BMPs) that will be used, the general timing or sequence for implementation of
such BMPs, and the party responsible for implementation. At a minimum, the
description must include erosion and sediment controls designed to retain
sediment on-site to the maximum extent practicable with due consideration for
local topography and rainfall.
      (1)   Control measures must be selected, installed, and maintained
according to the manufacturer's or designer's specifications.
      (2)   Sediment must be removed from sediment traps and sedimentation
ponds no later than the time that design capacity has been reduced by 50%.
      (3)   If sediment escapes the site, accumulations must be removed at a
frequency to minimize further negative effects and, whenever feasible, prior to
the next rain event.
      (4)   Controls must be specified that limit offsite transport of litter,
construction debris and construction materials.
   (D)   The SWP3 must describe interim and permanent stabilization practices
and a schedule of when the stabilization practices will be implemented. Site
plans should ensure that existing vegetation is preserved where it is possible.
      (1)   Stabilization practices may include but are not limited to:
establishment of temporary vegetation, establishment of permanent vegetation,
mulching, geotextiles, sod stabilization, vegetative buffer strips, and
protection of existing trees and vegetation.
      (2)   Stabilization measures must be initiated as soon as practicable in
portions of the site where construction activities have temporarily or
permanently ceased, and except as provided in (a) and (b) below, must be
initiated no more than 14 days after the construction activity in that portion
of the site has temporarily or permanently ceased.
         (a)   Where the initiation of stabilization measures is precluded by
seasonably arid conditions, drought, excessive rainfall, or other weather or
climatic conditions, stabilization measures must be initiated as soon as
practicable.
         (b)   Where construction activity on a portion of the site is
temporarily ceased but earth disturbing activities will be resumed within 21
days, temporary stabilization measures do not have to be initiated on that
portion of site.
   (E)   The SWP3 must include a description of any structural controls that
will be used to divert flows away from exposed soils, to limit the contact of
runoff with disturbed areas, or to lessen the off-site transport of eroded
soils.
      (1)   Sediment basins are required, where feasible, for common drainage
locations that serve an area with ten or more acres that are disturbed at any
one time. Sediment basins may be either temporary or permanent, but must be
designed to store either the calculated volume of runoff from a two-year, 24-
hour storm, or designed to provide 3,600 cubic feet of storage per acre
drained. When calculating the volume of runoff from a two-year, 24-hour storm
event, it is not required to include the flows from off-site areas and flow
from on-site areas that are either undisturbed or have already undergone final
stabilization, if these flows are diverted around both the disturbed areas of
the site and the sediment basin. In determining whether installing a sediment
basin is feasible, the permittee may consider factors such as site soils,
slope, available area on-site, and public safety. Where sediment basins are not
feasible, equivalent control measures, which may include a series of smaller
sediment basins, must be used. At a minimum, silt fences, vegetative buffer
strips, or equivalent sediment controls are required for all down slope
boundaries and for those side slope boundaries as dictated by individual site
conditions of the construction area.
      (2)   Sediment traps and sediment basins may be used to control solids in
stormwater runoff for drainage locations serving less than ten acres. At a
minimum, silt fences, hay bales, vegetative buffer strips, or equivalent
sediment controls are required for all down slope boundaries (and for those
side slope boundaries deemed appropriate as dictated by individual site
conditions) of the construction. Alternatively, a sediment basin providing
storage for a calculated volume of runoff from these areas for a two-year, 24-
hour storm or 3,600 cubic feet of storage per acre drained may be provided.
   (F)   Other controls.
      (1)   The SWP3 must describe how off-site vehicle tracking of sediment
and the generation of dust will be minimized.
      (2)   The SWP3 must include a description of construction and waste
materials expected to be stored on-site and a description of controls to reduce
pollutants from these materials.
      (3)   The SWP3 must include a description of pollutant sources from areas
other than construction (including stormwater discharges from dedicated asphalt
plants and dedicated concrete plants), and a description of controls and
measures that will be implemented at those sites to minimize pollutant
discharges.
      (4)   The SWP3 must commit to ongoing maintenance to keep all erosion and
sediment control and other protective measures identified in the SWP3 in
effective operating condition.
   (G)   Site inspections.
      (1)   The construction site operator shall provide for regular
inspections by persons familiar with the SWP3 of the disturbed areas that have
not been finally stabilized, areas used for storage of materials that are
exposed to precipitation, all structural control measures, and locations where
vehicles enter or exit the site for evidence of effectiveness and necessary
maintenance. Inspections must occur at least once every 14 calendar days and
within 24 hours of the end of a storm event of 0.5 inches or greater.
      (2)   As an alternative, the SWP3 may require that inspections will occur
at least once every seven calendar days; in which case additional inspections
are not required following each qualifying storm event. If this alternative
schedule is developed, the inspection must occur on a specifically deemed day,
regardless of whether or not there has been a rainfall event since the previous
inspection.
      (3)   The construction site operator must inspect all accessible
discharge locations to determine if erosion control measures are effective in
preventing visually noticeable changes to receiving waters, including
persistent cloudy appearance in water color and noticeable accumulation of
sediments. Where discharge locations are inaccessible, nearby downstream
locations must be inspected to the extent that such inspections are
practicable. The frequency for these inspections must be established in the
SWP3 with consideration for local rainfall and soil, but must occur at least
once during the construction activity if a discharge occurs.
      (4)   The SWP3 must be modified based on the results of inspections, as
necessary, to better control pollutants in runoff. Revisions to the SWP3 must
be completed within seven calendar days following the inspection. If existing
BMPs are modified or if additional BMPs are necessary, an implementation
schedule must be described in an amendment to the SWP3 and wherever possible
those changes implemented before the next storm event. If implementation before
the next anticipated storm event is impracticable, these changes must be
implemented as soon as practicable.
      (5)   A report summarizing the scope of the inspection, names and
qualifications of personnel making the inspection, the dates of the inspection,
and major observations relating to the implementation of the SWP3 must be made
and retained as part of the SWP3. Major observations should include:
         (a)   The locations of discharges of sediment or other pollutants from
the site;
         (b)   Locations of BMPs that need to be maintained;
         (c)   Locations of BMPs that failed to operate as designed or proved
inadequate for a particular location;
         (d)   Locations where additional BMPs are needed; and,
         (e)   Identification and location of the BMPs that are working
effectively.
      (6)   Actions taken as a result of inspections must be described within,
and retained as an amendment to the SWP3. Reports must identify any incidents
of non-compliance. Where a report does not identify any incidents of non-
compliance, the report must contain a certification that the facility or site
is in compliance with the SWP3 and this permit.
   (H)   The SWP3 must identify and ensure the implementation of pollution
prevention measures for all eligible non-stormwater components of the
discharge. This chapter prohibits, and all SWP3s will be presumed to prohibit:
      (1)   The discharge from a construction site of any water or other liquid
having a pH value lower than 6.0 or higher than 10.5;
      (2)   The discharge of any type of industrial waste from construction
sites;
      (3)   The deposit of any garbage, rubbish, or yard waste other than at a
facility licensed to receive such debris;
      (4)   The discharge of paint or paint brush cleaning water or solvents,
thinners or turpentine or any combination thereof;
      (5)   Unused construction materials or used construction materials or
debris remaining on the site after construction is completed. All on-site
debris shall be properly disposed of in the landfill within 30 days from the
occupancy of the structures; and
      (6)   The washing of any type of trucks, including, but not limited to,
ready mix trucks or material supply trucks on or around the construction site.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 50.25 EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVERAGE.
   Operators of construction activities eligible for coverage under TXR 150000,
as it may be amended, are authorized to discharge stormwater associated with
construction activity upon issuance by the city of the building permit or site
development permit.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 50.26 RETENTION OF RECORDS.
   The construction site operator must retain a copy of the SWP3 and all
reports and actions required by this chapter and state and federal law,
including NPDES, TPDES and General Permit No. 150000, for a minimum period of
three years from the date that final stabilization has been achieved on all
portions of the site.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
ILLICIT DISCHARGES
§ 50.35 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to prohibit, detect, and eliminate illicit
discharges to Palmview's MS4.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 50.36 ALLOWABLE NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGES.
   The following non-stormwater sources are not considered illicit discharges
to the MS4:
   (A)   Discharges from firefighting activities (but excluding washing of
trucks, run-off water from training activities, test water from fire
suppression systems, and similar activities);
   (B)   Uncontaminated fire hydrant flushing from systems that utilize potable
water, surface water, or groundwater that does not contain additional
pollutants (but excluding discharges of hyper chlorinated water, unless the
water is first dechlorinated and discharges are not expected to adversely
affect aquatic life and excluding flushing where recycled wastewater is used);
   (C)   Water from the routine external washing of vehicles, the external
portion of buildings or structures, and pavement, where detergents and soaps
are not used and where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous materials have not
occurred (unless spilled materials have been removed; and if local, state, or
federal regulations are applicable, the materials are removed according to
those regulations), and where the purpose is to remove mud, dirt, or dust;
   (D)   Uncontaminated water used to control dust;
   (E)   Potable water including waterline flushing (but excluding discharges
of hyper chlorinated water, unless the water is first dechlorinated and
discharges are not expected to adversely affect aquatic life);
   (F)   Uncontaminated air conditioning condensate;
   (G)   Uncontaminated ground water or spring water, including foundation or
footing drains and water from crawl space pumps where flows are not
contaminated with industrial materials such as solvents;
   (H)   Runoff or return flow from landscape irrigation, lawn irrigation, and
other irrigation utilizing potable water, groundwater, or surface water
sources;
   (I)   Diverted stream flows;
   (J)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration;
   (K)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
   (L)   Individual residential vehicle washing;
   (M)   Flows from wetlands and riparian habitats;
   (N)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges; and
   (O)   Street wash water.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 50.37 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall deposit, release, throw, drain, cause or allow to be
deposited, released, thrown, drained or discharged, or otherwise cause to enter
the MS4, or any other drainage device which connects with the MS4, any of the
following described materials or substances:
      (1)   Any acidic waste materials (having a pH value lower than 6);
      (2)   Any alkaline waste materials (having a pH value higher than 10.5);
      (3)   Any water or waste containing free-floating, or insoluble oil;
      (4)   Gasoline, naphtha, fuel oil, mineral oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (5)   Any noxious, malodorous, poisonous, or reactive substance which,
either singularly or by interaction with other substances, or by its
accumulation in the MS4 becomes injurious or potentially injurious to human,
plant or animal life, or property; or
      (6)   Any domestic wastewater or industrial wastewater.
   (B)   It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that such
person was authorized to commit any act, under a valid permit from the TCEQ or
the U.S. EPA, which would otherwise constitute a violation at the time of
commission.
   (C)   No person shall place, drop, or cause, or allow to be placed or
dropped, brush cuttings, clippings, or rubbish within the MS4 or on any street
in the city in such a manner that the same may be washed by the flow of water
into the MS4.
   (D)   No person shall connect a line conveying sanitary sewage, domestic
waste, or industrial effluent to the MS4 or allow such a connection to
continue.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or release, or allow or permit the discharge
or release of any of the following substances in a manner or location by which
such substance may enter the city's MS4:
      (1)   Any wash water or wastewater from the washing or cleaning of
pavement, including but not limited to parking lots, driveways or carports,
that contains soap, detergent, solvent, degreaser, emulsifier, dispersant, or
any other cleaning substance other than water;
      (2)   Any wash water or wastewater from cleaning of any pavement where a
spill, leak, or other release of oil, motor fuel, or other petroleum or
hazardous substance has occurred, unless all harmful quantities of such
released material have been previously removed or pretreated;
      (3)   Any wash water from a commercial mobile power washer or from the
washing or other cleaning of a building exterior that contains any soap,
detergent, degreaser, solvent, or any other harmful cleaning substance;
      (4)   Gasoline, motor oil, used oil filters, wax, grease, antifreeze or
any other motor vehicle fluids;
      (5)   Any contaminated water or waste from a commercial car wash
facility, from any vehicle washing, cleaning, or maintenance area at any new or
used automobile or other vehicle dealership, rental agency, body shop, repair
shop, maintenance facility, or from any washing, cleaning, or maintenance area
of any commercial or public service vehicle, including any truck, bus, or piece
of heavy equipment, by any business or public entity;
      (6)   Any contaminated water or waste from commercial establishments
including but not limited to gas stations, service stations, and auto repair
shops with areas exposed to weather conditions;
      (7)   Material from an oil/water separator or an oil/water interceptor,
grit trap or grease trap. Any oil/water separator or interceptor users who are
discharging to the MS4 shall notify the city of the existence of such
connections to the MS4 within 60 days of the effective date of this chapter. If
such notification is not made during the allocated 60 days, then the detected
connections to MS4 of an oil/water separator or interceptor shall be considered
an illicit connection and the city reserves the right to terminate such
connection immediately, without prior notice;
      (8)   Any release from a petroleum underground storage tank (PUST), or
any leachate or runoff from soil contaminated by a leaking PUST, or any
discharge of pumped, confirmed, or partially treated wastewater from the
remediation of any such PUST unless release satisfies all of the following
criteria:
         (a)   Is in compliance with all municipal, state, and federal laws;
         (b)   No discharge contains any harmful quantity of any pollutant; and
         (c)   The discharge shall not have a pH value lower than 6.0 or higher
than 10.5;
      (9)   Any collected water, due to rain, surface runoff, cross connection,
or illegal discharge, from any public or private underground utility manhole,
including but not limited to electric power, gas pipeline, cable companies,
telephone companies;
      (10)   Any effluent from a cooling tower, condenser, compressor,
emissions scrubber, emissions filter, or the blowdown from a boiler;
      (11)   Any type of wastewater from residential, commercial or industrial
sources; any domestic sewage; or septic tank waste;
      (12)   Any runoff or wash down water from any animal pen, kennel, or fowl
or livestock containment area; and
      (13)   Any swimming pool water or filter backwash from a swimming pool or
fountain, discharge from a water line if it has been disinfected by
superchlorination or other means and the total residual chlorine exists in any
harmful quantity or any other chemical has been used in line disinfection.
   (F)   No person shall apply used oil or other vehicle fluid to a road or
land for dust suppression, weed abatement, or other similar use that introduces
used oil contamination into the environment.
   (G)   No person shall introduce any type of hazardous waste generated in and
around a household including, but not limited to batteries, used paints,
solvents, used pesticide, and used toiletries into the MS4.
   (H)   No person shall use, dispose of, discard, store, or transport an
insecticide, herbicide, or fertilizer, in a manner inconsistent with the proper
usage, storage, transport and disposal set out in the labeling in accordance
with the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), such that
a harmful quantity of the pesticide, herbicide, or fertilizer may enter the
MSA.
   (I)   No person shall wash a commercial dumpster, or residual ready-mix
concrete from concrete mixing trucks, in an area where it discharges into the
MS4.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 50.38 MANDATORY REPORTING AND CLEAN-UP OF ANY DISCHARGE OR RELEASE.
   (A)   The person in charge of any facility, vehicle, or other source of any
spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, escaping,
leaching, disposing, or any other release of any of the following quantities of
any of the following substances that may enter the MS4, surface water of the
state or waters of the U.S., shall immediately notify by telephone the Palmview
Police Department concerning the incident:
      (1)   An amount equal to or in excess of a reportable quantity of any
hazardous or extremely hazardous substance, as established under 40 CFR Parts
302 and 355, respectively;
      (2)   An amount of oil that either (a) violates applicable water quality
standards; or (b) causes a film or sheen upon or discoloration of the surface
of the water or an adjoining shoreline or causes a sludge or emulsion to be
deposited beneath the surface of the water or upon an adjoining shoreline; or
      (3)   Any harmful quantity of any pollutant.
   (B)   The immediate notification required shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The identity or chemical name of the substance released, and
whether the substance is an extremely hazardous substance;
      (2)   The exact location of the release, including any known name of the
waters involved or threatened and any other environmental media affected;
      (3)   The time and duration (thus far) of the release;
      (4)   An estimate of the quantity and concentration (if known) of the
substance released;
      (5)   The source of the release;
      (6)   Any known or anticipated health risks associated with the release
and, where appropriate, advice regarding medical attention that may be
necessary for exposed individuals;
      (7)   Any precautions that should be taken as a result of the release;
      (8)   Any steps that have been taken to contain and/or clean up the
released material and minimize its impacts; and
      (9)   The names and telephone numbers of the person or persons to be
contacted for further information.
   (C)   Within 15 days following such reportable release, the responsible
person in charge of the facility, vehicle, or other source of the release shall
submit, unless waived by the city, a written report containing the information
specified above in (B)(1) through (9) as well as the following additional
information:
      (1)   The ultimate duration, concentrations, and quantity of the release;
      (2)   All actions taken to respond to, contain, and clean up the released
substances, and all precautions taken to minimize the impacts;
      (3)   Any known or anticipated acute or chronic health risks associated
with the release;
      (4)   The identity of any governmental/private sector representatives
responding to the release; and
      (5)   The measures taken or to be taken by the responsible persons to
prevent similar future occurrences.
   (D)   The notifications required by divisions (B) and (C) shall not relieve
the responsible person of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which
may be incurred as a result of the release, including any liability for damage
to the city, to natural resources, or to any other person or property; nor
shall such notification relieve the responsible person of any fine, penalty, or
other liability which may be imposed pursuant to city ordinance, or state or
federal law.
   (E)   Any person responsible for any release as described in this division
shall comply with all state, federal, and local law requiring reporting,
cleanup, containment, and any other appropriate remedial action in response to
the release.
   (F)   Any person responsible for a release described in this division shall
reimburse the city for any cost incurred by the city in responding to the
release.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 50.39 ABATEMENT OF ILLICIT CONDITIONS AND ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF
EXPENSES.
   The city may abate illicit discharges in the same manner and according to
the same procedures provided for by the City Code of Ordinances and assess and
collect any expenses incurred in the manner and procedure provided.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
RIGHT OF ENTRY, INSPECTION, AND SAMPLING
§ 50.50 RIGHT OF ENTRY, INSPECTION, AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   City Code Enforcement, Public Works, building inspection staff and the
City Engineer are authorized to enter and inspect sites and facilities subject
to regulation under this chapter or discharging stormwater to the city's MS4 to
determine if the discharger is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any state or federal discharge permit, limitation, or requirement.
   (B)   Facility operators shall allow such city staff access to all parts of
the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination,
photo recording, and copying of records that must be kept under this chapter,
NPDES, TPDES or TXR 150000, as it may be amended, permit to discharge
stormwater, including pollution control measures or modifications thereto,
self-inspection reports, monitoring records, compliance evaluations, notices of
intent, and any other records, reports, or documents related to compliance with
this chapter and with any state or federal stormwater discharge permit.
   (C)   City staff shall have the right to set-up on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the staff to monitor and/or
sample the facility's or the site's stormwater discharge.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility or site to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by
the operator at the written or oral request of the city staff and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
   (E)   The city may require, at its reasonable discretion, any discharger to
conduct specified sampling, testing, analysis, and other monitoring of its
stormwater discharges, and may specify the frequency and parameters of any such
required monitoring.
   (F)   The city may require, at its reasonable discretion, the discharger to
install monitoring equipment at the discharger's expense. The facility's
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All
devices used to measure stormwater flow, wastewater and quality shall be
calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
   (G)   Where a discharger has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make necessary arrangements so that, upon presentation of suitable
identification, the city staff will be permitted to enter without delay for the
purposes of implementing and enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.60 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It is a violation of this chapter to engage in construction activity
without complying with this chapter.
   (B)   It is a violation of this chapter to discharge any substance, other
than stormwater or those discharges listed in §
50.36, to the city's MS4 in violation of any provision in this chapter.
   (C)   The operator of a facility or site with a TPDES permit to discharge
stormwater associated with industrial or construction activity commits an
offense if the person denies city staff reasonable access to the permitted
facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by
this chapter. Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to a permitted
facility or site are a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   A person commits an offense if the person operates a facility or site
that is discharging stormwater associated with industrial or construction
activity without having submitted a copy of the notice of intent to do so to
the city.
   (E)   A facility shall be operated in strict compliance with the
requirements of its TPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with
industrial or construction activity. A person commits an offense if the person
operates a facility or construction activity in violation of a requirement of
the facility's TPDES permit to discharge stormwater.
   (F)   The city may require any operator of a facility to modify the
facility's or the site's SWP3 if in the best professional judgment of the city
staff, the SWP3 does not comply with the requirements of the facility's or the
site's TPDES permit to discharge stormwater.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 50.61 NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS AND STOP WORK ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice of the deficiencies in a facility's or a site's SWP3 will be
made in writing, and the city will give the facility or construction site
operator a reasonable amount of time, not to exceed 30 days, to make the
necessary changes in the SWP3.
   (B)   Noncompliance flag and stop work orders. If the city staff determines
that activities are being carried out in violation of this chapter, a
notification of noncompliance shall be issued. In addition to the notification,
if the violation continues beyond five days, a "noncompliance flag" will be
posted at the site. Finally, if the violation continues after three days after
the "noncompliance flag" is posted, the city may stop all work until corrective
measures have been completed. The site shall be posted with a "stop work
order." No other permits may be issued or inspections conducted by the city
until corrections have been made to the satisfaction of the city. To move or
interfere with a "noncompliance flag" or a stop work order shall constitute a
violation of this section.
   (C)   Any person alleged to be in violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to correct the problem upon written notification from
the city. Such written notification may require that certain conditions be
adhered to in the correction of the problem. These may include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Use of specific pollution prevention measures and techniques;
      (2)   Use of pretreatment procedures;
      (3)   Modification of existing SWP3;
      (4)   Completion of work within a specified time period; and
      (5)   Submission of SWP3.
   (D)   Appeals. Any person denied permission to discharge to MS4 shall have
the right to appeal such to the Board of Adjustment or other board established
by the city within 45 days of the date of such denial.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or business entity that violates any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, fined as provided in §
10.99 of the City of Palmview Code of Ordinances. Each day that the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. A culpable mental state is not
required to prove an offense under this chapter.
   (B)   The penal provisions imposed by this chapter shall not preclude the
city from filing a suit to enjoin the violation. The city retains all legal
rights and remedies available to it pursuant to local, state and federal law.
The city may, at its discretion, report alleged noncompliance to the EPA, the
TCEQ, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Texas Parks and Wildlife, the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, or any other state or federal agency.
(Ord. 2020-02-O, passed 2-4-2020)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Purpose
   
51.03   Application procedures and requirements
   
51.04   Authorized disposal of waste
   
51.05   Anti-scavenging
Collection
   
51.20   Duty of city or its contractor to collect and remove
   
51.21   Certain persons to provide own facilities for removal of trees and the
like
   
51.22   Removal of brush, soil and trash resulting from land clearing or yard
levelling operations
   
51.23   Removal of waste, debris and materials after construction or general
clean-up operations
   
51.24   Removal of automobile bodies, bulky wastes, industrial wastes, and the
like
Containers
   
51.35   Containers required; proper use of same
   
51.36   Placement for collection; when placement allowed; maximum size of
brush, cuttings, and the like, and required preparation thereof
Charges and Billing
   
51.45   Levy and assessment
   
51.46   Rates
   
51.47   Billing procedure
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning; provided
that, to the extent that such definitions do not conflict with the defined or
intended definitions in this chapter, the defined terms as provided for in the
city zoning ordinance shall be used for the purposes of this chapter.
   APPROVED CONTAINER. Any dumpster or roll-off container being provided by the
city or its contractor. Open-top roll-offs shall not be a substitute for bins
or dumpsters unless approved by the Solid Waste Director or designee.
   BAGS. Plastic bags designed to store refuse with sufficient wall strength to
maintain physical integrity when lifted by the top. Total weight of a bag and
its contents shall not exceed 35 pounds.
   BIN. A high-density polyethylene (plastic) receptacle provided by the city
or its contractor for the deposit and collection of waste designed to be lifted
and emptied mechanically for use primarily at residential units including, if
applicable, multi-family units.
   BRUSH. Hedge trimmings, tree limbs, branches and trimmings, plant and shrub
trimmings, leaves, yard and grass cleanings and other similar items.
   BULKY WASTE. Refuse which due to size, weight or other reason is not capable
of collection by the standard garbage or trash collection vehicle normally
utilized by the city or its contractor to carry out that function, and includes
but is not limited to stoves, washing machines, furniture and other heavy or
bulky waste materials except construction debris, hazardous waste, household
hazardous waste, or items containing freon.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair or demolition operations of any type of structure or
building.
   CONTRACTOR. The person, corporation, partnership, or agent performing refuse
collection and landfill operation under contract with the city.
   CUBIC YARD. A unit of garbage or trash having a measurement of one yard
(three linear feet) in width, one yard (three linear feet) in depth, and
occupying one cubic yard of space, regardless of density or degree of
compaction of such garbage or trash in place.
   CUSTOMER. Any owner, occupant, tenant, itinerant vendor licensee, or person
otherwise in possession or control of any premises in the city, or their
agents, on which any material regulated by this chapter, including garbage,
trash, and brush exist or are accumulated or from which such is removed or
required to be removed pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
   DUMPSTER. A commercial type container provided by the city or its contractor
for the deposit of garbage and/or trash.
   DUMPSTER REMOVAL. The removal from the premises of the dumpster.
   GARBAGE or TRASH. Interchangeably, anything discarded; any accumulation of
waste that results from the use, preparation, processing, consumption,
handling, packing, canning, storage, transportation, decay or decomposition of
animal, vegetable, or other matter, or any refuse or rubbish, but does not
include "bulky waste," "hazardous waste," "household hazardous wastes,"
"construction debris," dead animals, stable matter or "brush."
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste or combination of waste of a solid, liquid,
contained gaseous, or semisolid form, which is identified by the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) or any state agency as hazardous, and which exceed the
threshold limits set forth by any such regulatory agency, or which because of
its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics, may: (1) cause or significantly contribute to an increase in
mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible
illness; or (2) pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of,
or otherwise managed. Such wastes include, but are not limited to, those which
are toxic, corrosive, flammable, irritants, strong sensitizes, or which
generate pressure through decomposition, heat or other means; or any chemical,
compound, mixture, substance or chapter which is designated by the EPA or the
Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) as "hazardous."
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Discarded products normally used at residences
that are discarded in municipal solid waste and that contain substances already
regulated under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 as an
industrial hazardous waste.
   LAND CLEARING. The removal of trees, vegetation, soil or debris typically in
the preparation of a tract of land for construction of structures or
infrastructure.
   MULTI-FAMILY. Any residential unit other than a building on a single lot or
parcel designed for and/or occupied exclusively by one family as a separate
dwelling unit.
   NONRESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any unit or establishment within the corporate limits
of the city intended to be used or occupied, or used or occupied, for other
than residential purposes.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A dwelling within the corporate limits of the City of
Palmview intended for residential occupancy or occupied by any person for
residential purposes, but not hotels, motels, boarding houses or other similar
transient occupancies, except to the extent that separate kitchen facilities
are provided.
   SERVICE. The picking up and removal of garbage or trash, regardless of
density of compaction in place.
   UNIT. Each individual customer responsible for the payment of any fees or
charges for any service rendered under this chapter.
   WASTE. Any substance or object whose producer or the person in possession of
which discards, or intends to or is required to discard.
   WET SLOP. Waste in a liquid, semiliquid or liquescent form, such as, but not
limited to sauces, broths, gravies, water used in a cooking process and grease.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 51.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide and establish a method or system
of collecting and disposing of garbage or trash, brush, and waste originating
in the city; to provide and establish reasonable rules and regulations
pertaining thereto; and to establish reasonable, fair, uniform and equitable
charges for the services of the city in collecting and removing garbage or
trash, and brush all in order to protect the health and welfare of the citizens
of the city and the general public.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 51.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements are applicable to all classifications of service
applications.
   (A)   The applicant shall complete the applicable service application form
and execute a service agreement.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide proof of ownership or title to the
property which service has been requested.
   (C)   The applicant shall pay all applicable fees prior to commencement of
service.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 51.04 AUTHORIZED DISPOSAL OF WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person hauling, conveying or transporting
waste upon the streets, alleys or public thoroughfares of the city to unload or
dump such waste at or upon any public or private property within the city other
than at a facility licensed this chapter or at any other approved facility or
state-approved public landfill.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of property within the
city to permit the unloading or dumping of brush and garbage or trash at or
upon any property owned or occupied by that person. Notwithstanding such
prohibition, this section does not apply to the hauling, conveying,
transporting, unloading or dumping of earth or inert materials, otherwise not
prohibited by law, including but not limited to concrete materials for landfill
and leveling purposes.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 51.05 ANTI-SCAVENGING.
   No person except for the duly authorized agents or employees of the city, or
a person with the customer's consent, shall remove any garbage or trash or
other waste from an approved container.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
COLLECTION
§ 51.20 DUTY OF CITY OR ITS CONTRACTOR TO COLLECT AND REMOVE.
   (A)   Residential collection and removal of garbage or trash shall be made
one time each week, to be scheduled as determined by the Solid Waste Director.
The Solid Waste Director may discontinue, on a case-by-case basis, residential
garbage collection due to non-compliance, and may issue an additional trash
container and appropriate charges.
   (B)   Garbage or trash in dumpsters shall be collected according to a
schedule or on an as-needed basis as determined by the Solid Waste Director. In
no event shall collection be scheduled less than once per week.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 51.21 CERTAIN PERSONS TO PROVIDE OWN FACILITIES FOR REMOVAL OF TREES AND THE
LIKE.
   It shall be the responsibility of all tree surgery operators, commercial
tree pruning and/or nursery persons or public utilities to provide their own
equipment and personnel for removal and disposal of all accumulations created
by their work and actions to an approved facility. Further, it shall be the
responsibility of the premises owner to remove and dispose to an approved
disposal facility all trees, limbs, trunks and stumps, and similar
accumulations where it is not possible to reduce same to an acceptable size and
length for city or contractor pick up as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 51.22 REMOVAL OF BRUSH, SOIL AND TRASH RESULTING FROM LAND CLEARING OR YARD
LEVELLING OPERATIONS.
   Brush, soil and trash resulting from land clearing, yard leveling, or
similar operations shall be removed by the party responsible for such
operations, and at their own expense.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 51.23 REMOVAL OF WASTE, DEBRIS AND MATERIALS AFTER CONSTRUCTION OR GENERAL
CLEAN-UP OPERATIONS.
   No debris or other materials, including rocks; bricks; waste building
materials; scraps; no trash resulting from construction, remodeling, repair or
demolition operations or resulting from general cleanup of property; and no
bulky waste will be removed by the city. Such materials shall be promptly
deposited in a roll-off container by the customer and properly disposed of,
unless the Solid Waste Director or designee determines that the use of a roll-
off container is not necessary. Bulky waste shall be promptly collected and
disposed of by customer at an approved landfill or recycling facility.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 51.24 REMOVAL OF AUTOMOBILE BODIES, BULKY WASTES, INDUSTRIAL WASTES, AND THE
LIKE.
   Discarded automobile bodies or parts thereof, all bulky wastes, and all
industrial wastes resulting from manufacturing operations, canning plants,
packing plants, fruit and/or vegetable sheds, cotton gins, slaughterhouses for
animals or poultry, or fish houses must be properly disposed of by the
customer. Disposal of the items referred to in this section shall be conducted
under, and in compliance with, all applicable state and federal regulations
relating to disposal of such items, and all applicable city ordinances,
including those regulating the use of city or state rights-of-way, and motor
vehicle regulations.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
CONTAINERS
§ 51.35 CONTAINERS REQUIRED; PROPER USE OF SAME.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every residential customer to use and maintain
in good order and repair any bin or container provided by the city or its
contractor for the deposit of wastes for collection by the city or its
contractor or for other proper disposal as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   In business, commercial, industrial or multi-family premises,
dumpsters are required and provided by the city or its contractor and, unless
otherwise authorized by the Solid Waste Director or designee, it shall be
unlawful to use any other container for garbage or trash or recyclable
disposal. Where a customer deems it necessary to use a roll-off container in
the management of garbage, trash or recyclables, said service shall be provided
exclusively by the city or its contractor. It shall be the duty of all persons
using dumpsters to place waste therein compactly. All boxes and cartons must be
broken down. The space in such dumpsters must be efficiently used. All doors
must be closed and properly latched after any waste is placed therein. Such
dumpsters shall be used exclusively for garbage or trash. All garbage,
including wet slop, shall be placed in plastic bags designed specifically for
garbage disposal, a minimum five mil. in thickness. The plastic bags shall be
of sufficient strength to resist tearing under normal handling and shall be
tied or fastened when placed for collection.
   (C)   No person utilizing any bin as specified in division (A) or dumpster
as specified in division (B), shall place any waste in any of such containers,
unless it may be placed therein without spillage or overflow from such
containers, nor shall any waste be placed along the side of, or otherwise on
the top of, any such container when such container is properly closed. In any
commercial establishment or multi-family units being served by a dumpster, the
customer shall also be responsible for complying with the provisions of this
division.
   (D)   No person shall transport waste to another location except for
purposes of:
      (1)   Approved recycling;
      (2)   Sale; or
      (3)   Other permitted disposal.
   (E)   Only a duly authorized agent or employee of the city may remove or
relocate a dumpster or roll-off container from its city-approved location.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 51.36 PLACEMENT FOR COLLECTION; WHEN PLACEMENT ALLOWED; MAXIMUM SIZE OF
BRUSH, CUTTINGS, AND THE LIKE, AND REQUIRED PREPARATION THEREOF.
   (A)   The customer shall place the containers for service at such point on
the property as the Solid Waste Director or designee shall assign and designate
as the most convenient and accessible for collecting and removing. Residential
customers may not store their containers in the front yard where such service
is provided, but may do so in the back yard or side yard area that is not also
part of the front yard. At no time shall the containers be so placed that an
access to a mailbox will be blocked or obstructed and all containers must be a
minimum of three feet away from all objects and each other for service. Access
is deemed to be obstructed whenever a container is placed within ten feet of a
mailbox or within three feet of all other objects. Garbage and trash will not
be collected from containers that are obstructing a mailbox. For residential
pickup of garbage or trash bins, the bins shall be placed on the side of the
property immediately adjacent to the street to facilitate access to such bins.
No container may be placed in a street right-of-way.
   (B)   All bins must be placed at the location prescribed in this section not
later than 7:00 a.m. on the day of scheduled collection and removed to the side
yard or back yard prior to 7:00 p.m. on such day.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any customer to place any brush for
collection at other than the designated places provided for in this section. It
shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to place any brush in an approved container provided
for in this chapter;
      (2)   For any customer to place brush for collection in any street right-
of-way before the Monday of the week of the published announcement of brush
collections by the city; or
      (3)   For any person to place any brush so as to obstruct access to a
mailbox, or covering water meter boxes, telephone pedestals, gas meters, cable
guy wires, or any other public utility fixture.
   (D)   Tree limbs placed for collection shall not exceed five feet in length
nor three inches in diameter, and shall be neatly stacked and placed at the
location as set out in this section.
   (E)   Grass cuttings and leaves shall be placed in compostable (paper) bags
placed at the location as set out in division (A) herein above, in a way that
facilitates pickup of same.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
CHARGES AND BILLING
§ 51.45 LEVY AND ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The charges fixed in this chapter for the collection, removal and
disposal of brush and garbage or trash by the city or its contractor shall be
levied and assessed by the city against each customer. Since the prompt and
proper removal of all brush and garbage or trash is essential to the
preservation of the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens and
people of the city, and protection against fire hazards, it is deemed necessary
that such charges be assessed, levied and collected as provided for in this
chapter.
   (B)   Each customer shall enter into a sanitation solid waste collection
agreement with the city or a city-approved agent as described in this chapter.
Each unit shall be charged separately and billed to the person responsible for
the sanitation billing.
   (C)   An exemption from payment of trash or garbage charges established by
this chapter may be granted by the Solid Waste Director only to the extent that
no other city collection services are provided.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 51.46 RATES.
   (A)   Single-family units.
      (1)   The monthly rate per bin for the collection and removal of garbage
by the city or its contractor from single-family residences shall be $22.
      (2)   The rate established by this section shall apply to rooming houses
as one unit, unless separate kitchen facilities are made available, in which
case, the basic residential rate, as determined in this section shall be
charged per kitchen facility.
 
Charges for Residential Services
Number of Containers Rate
1                    $22
2                    $29.57
3                    $47.50
4                    $82
 
      (3)   Rates shall be prorated according to new service dates and
termination of service dates falling within the normal billing cycle.
   (B)   Apartments, duplexes, triplexes, quads, condominiums and townhouses.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided for in division (B)(3) below, the monthly
rate for the collection and removal of garbage or trash from apartments,
duplexes, triplexes, quads, condominiums and townhouses shall be $22 for each
unit.
      (2)   The Solid Waste Director or designee is hereby authorized, based on
field conditions, to determine whether or not a dumpster shall be required for
collection of garbage or trash from the premises referred to in this section.
If the Solid Waste Director deems that a dumpster should be used for any
apartment, duplex, triplex, quads, condominium or townhouse, then such
container shall be utilized for collection of garbage and trash and at such
location, and the rate to be charged therefor shall be as set out in this
chapter.
      (3)   The Solid Waste Director or designee shall determine the number,
size and frequency of the service required for a multi-family complex. At a
minimum, a multi-family complex shall be determined to require one two-cubic-
yard dumpster serviced once per week per ten units or fraction thereof.
   (C)   Mobile home and travel trailer parks.
      (1)   Dumpsters are required for collection of garbage or trash from
mobile home and travel trailer parks.
      (2)   Rates as set out in this chapter or provided by the city’s
contractor shall be applicable for such service.
   (D)   Residences on unplatted property. The residential rate established by
this chapter shall apply to the collection and removal of garbage or trash and
from residences on unplatted or unsubdivided property by allowing to such
residence a reasonable yard to determine the front footage width this
determination to be made by the customer and the Solid Waste Director. If they
cannot agree, such matter shall be determined by the City Manager after an has
been made in writing.
   (E)   Rates for commercial and other properties not described in this
chapter.
      (1)   For all business, commercial or other nonresidential establishments
or uses, the monthly basic rate or charge for garbage or trash shall be as
follows:
 
Charges for Nonresidential Services
Number of Containers Rate
1                    $27.23
2                    $41.56
3                    $60.56
 
      (2)   Dumpsters may be required for collection of garbage or trash from
nonresidential establishments.
      (3)   The rate or charge for dumpsters. For all business, commercial or
other nonresidential establishments or uses where a dumpster is used, the
monthly basic rate or charge for garbage or trash removed shall be as follows:
Monthly Dumpster Collection Rate
                            Frequency of collections per week
Dumpster Size (cubic yards) 1 2 3 4 5 6
Monthly Dumpster Collection Rate
                            Frequency of collections per week
Dumpster Size (cubic yards) 1       2       3       4       5       6
   2                     $95.24  $171.78 $248.28 $324.81 $401.35 $477.88
   3                     $112.24 $202.37 $292.49 $382.62 $472.75 $562.89
   4                     $129.22 $233.02 $336.72 $440.45 $544.19 $647.91
   6                     $188.77 $338.42 $488.05 $637.74 $787.29 $937.02
   8                     $215.99 $389.43 $562.90 $736.37 $909.83 $1,081.59
Extra pick up               $125.00
 
      (4)   The rate or charge for roll-offs. On all commercial business,
construction projects, and other properties where a roll-off system is
required, the basic rates and fees shall be as follows:
 
Roll-Off Collection Rate
                            Frequency of collections per week
Roll-Off Size (cubic yards) Haul rate Tonnage rate Rental rate Overage rate
   30                    $298.94   $43.57       $7.25/day   $60.51/ton
 
      (5)   Rates as set out in this chapter or provided by the city’s
contractor shall be applicable for dumpster service.
      (6)   In properties where the use of a dumpster is required and the
placement of said dumpster is not feasible, as determined by the Solid Waste
Director or designee, sanitation service can be provided through the use of
bins.
   (F)   Individual offices maintained on residential lot with no residence
use. Nonresidential uses maintained on a residential lot shall be treated as
commercial for the purposes of establishing and charging for sanitation
services.
   (G)   Property with combined residential and nonresidential uses. The rate
for property with combined residential and nonresidential uses shall be 1 1/
2 times the basic residential unit rate established by this division for the
collection and removal of garbage. The basic residential lot rate established
by this division shall apply to the collection and removal of brush from such
property.
   (H)   Rates for commercial trash, roll-off pick ups and disposal service. On
all commercial business, construction projects, and other properties where a
roll-off system is required, or a compactor is serviced, the basic rates and
fees charged shall be as provided by the city or its contractor.
   (I)   Maintenance charges for depositing wet slop in city containers. Should
any person cause damage to any city-owned approved container to the extent that
maintenance or repair is needed, then the Solid Waste Director or designee
shall compute the cost for the repair, including the charge to wash and
deodorize. Where applicable, the responsible customer's bill in the next
monthly billing cycle will reflect an additional charge for the services
rendered under this chapter. The charge to wash and deodorize the container
will be in accordance with this chapter.
   (J)   Rate hearings.
      (1)   The charges and rates for collection as provided for in this
section shall be applicable only when city collection services are provided to
the customer or where the minimum charge is levied where licensed commercial
permittees are delivering such services to the customer, as applicable.
      (2)   Any customer receiving city garbage or trash collection services or
who is required to pay the minimum service charge who feels that the rate
classification charged to him or her is not the proper classification shall
have the right to appeal the designation of such classification to the City
Manager by giving written notice of such appeal to the City Manager within 30
days of the imposition of such rate for such service. The City Manager at such
hearing shall give the opportunity to such appellant to present his case, and
after deliberation of such case shall determine the appropriate classification
for rates for the type of service to such customer as provided for in this
chapter.
   (K)   Brush collection rate.
The monthly rate for the collection and removal of brush and bulky debris by
the city from commercial, industrial, multi-family (apartments, duplexes,
triplexes, quads, condominiums, townhouses), mobile homes and/or travel trailer
parks shall be $2.50 per month per unit.
   (L)   Delinquent fee for all customers. In addition to any other charges
provided for in this chapter there shall be charged to every customer an amount
equal to $5 for any delinquent account. Such charge shall be reviewed by the
City Council from time to time, in relationship to the cost of the city's
administrative costs and the revenues derived there from.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021; Ord. 2023-20-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 51.47 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Billing; when due and payable; collection.
      (1)   In order for the city to effect the collection of charges levied
and assessed under this subchapter from the persons who owe the same, such
charges shall be billed each month a solid waste bill for all persons who
receive service from the city or its contractor. Such charges shall be due and
payable at City Hall, 400 W. Veterans Blvd., Palmview, Texas, or online as
identified by the city’s website. The bills will be sent through regular United
States mail channels, addressed to such person's address, and shall be due and
payable by such person to the city within 15 days of the bill date.
      (2)   The city shall mail each customer a bill for each billing cycle
assessing the applicable monthly charges, administrative fees, delinquent fees,
and any other applicable fees or charges. All bills shall be due by the date
indicated on the bill, allowing approximately 15 days to pay, after which time
a $5 delinquent fee shall be applied. A bill is delinquent if not paid by the
due date. Payments made by mail will be considered late if received after the
due date. A delinquent payment notice advising customers that the bill is
delinquent shall be mailed to the customer after the due date of the bill. The
delinquent notice shall notify the customer that service will be discontinued
if payment is not received by the city on or before the eleventh day after the
date the delinquent bill was mailed. A bin collection fee of $50 shall be
assessed once an order has been issued to collect the trash bin after the
eleventh day following the date the customer was notified of the delinquent
payment. After service has been terminated, any balance remaining shall be the
responsibility of the customer. If after 30 days the account is still
delinquent, a certified demand letter shall be sent to the last known address
for payment within ten days. If the account is still delinquent, the city may
choose to pursue issuing a citation for failing to provide garbage service to a
location within the city. If the due date for a bill or delinquent notice falls
on a weekend or a holiday, the due date shall fall on the next business day the
city will be open.
      (3)   The city may back-bill a customer for up to four months for a
billing error due to an unapplied or misapplied rate. Failure to pay the most
recent two months billing will result in the collection of the trash bin.
      (4)   In the event that the rate on the customers bill was misapplied,
the bill shall be adjusted to reflect the correct rate for up to four months
back prior to the notification of the error.
      (5)   The city shall charge a fee of $6 to setup new service, a fee of $3
for any modifications to an account, or a fee of $7.50 to reinstate an old
account in order to process changes to the customer’s account.
      (6)   In the event that a bin is not picked up due to the bin not being
placed in front of the property prior to the scheduled pickup, a $25 pick up
fee will be assessed if the driver has to go back to pickup the bin.
      (7)   The Solid Waste Department shall deposit all collections into the
sanitation fund of the city.
   (B)   Payment of bills.
      (1)   All garbage or trash and brush collection bills under any schedule
contained in this chapter shall be due and payable and shall become delinquent
if not paid by the day on the due date of such bill. The Solid Waste Director
or his or her authorized representative is hereby authorized to discontinue
brush and garbage or trash for any delinquent account according to the
procedure as set out in this chapter.
      (2)   The security deposit of $50 shall be applicable for all new
residential accounts receiving brush and garbage or trash collection services
from the city. Such security deposit shall be applied in accordance with the
provisions relating to amounts due brush and garbage or trash service. In the
event service is discontinued for nonpayment of fees, a security deposit shall
be collected. Once a bin is issued to a customer, it is the responsibility of
the customer, if the bin is lost or destroyed, to reimburse the City of
Palmview the cost of the bin prior to the resumption of service.
      (3)   The security deposit of $150 shall be applicable for all new
commercial accounts receiving garbage, trash, or roll-off collection services
from the city. Such security deposit shall be applied in accordance with the
provisions relating to amounts due for garbage or trash service. In the event
servie is discontinued for nonpayment of fees, a security deposit shall be
collected. Once a dumpster is issued to a customer, it is the responsibility of
the customer, if lost or destroyed, to reimburse the city the cost of the bin
prior to the resumption of service.
      (4)   The acceptable form of payment will be cash, check, money order or
debit/credit card.
      (5)   An additional $25 processing fee shall be added to such account by
the City of Palmview for any payment not honored by any bank or financial
institution for any reason.
   (C)   Roll-off services; billing and payment of bills.
      (1)   The Solid Waste Department or where applicable, the third-party
contractor, is hereby authorized to bill and collect all applicable roll-off
collection charges for the city.
      (2)   When roll-off accounts become delinquent, the Solid Waste Director
or designee shall discontinue roll-off service relating to such delinquent
account(s) and assess a late payment fee equal to 5% of the delinquent balance
of said account.
      (3)   Whenever a roll-off container is removed following discontinuance
of service due to nonpayment, a $50 container removal fee shall be assessed in
addition to any other service charges assessed under this chapter.
      (4)   A security deposit shall be required for all roll-off service
customers in the amount of $250 for noncommercial use and $500 for commercial/
contractor use. This deposit shall be required for all new accounts as provided
for in this section, save and except for any existing customer who shall
transfer an account from one location to another or who shall request
additional account(s) to be established under such customer's name. The deposit
shall be applied to any final balance due; any credit balance will be refunded
to the account holder within three weeks by the Solid Waste Department.
      (5)   An additional $25 processing fee shall be added to such account by
the City of Palmview for any payment not honored by any bank or financial
institution for any reason.
      (6)   A container inactivity charge of $180 shall be assessed to each
customer account for every 30-calendar day period during which no container
activity is registered.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021; Ord. 2023-20-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating or found not complying with the provisions of
this chapter shall be fined $500, and each day of violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as prescribed in this section or for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to general penalties in §
10.99.
   (C)   In the event of a violation of this chapter, the city may, in addition
to other remedies, institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent
such violation, including the right to restrain, enjoin, correct or abate such
violation in any court of competent jurisdiction, in accordance with the laws
of the state.
(Ord. 2021-07-O, passed 6-15-2021)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   TRUCK AND HAZARDOUS MATERIAL ROUTES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Adoption of Uniform Act
   
70.02   Traffic Safety Advisory Committee
   
70.03   Parades and processions
   
70.04   Driving over fire hose
   
70.05   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.06   Weight limitations of ready-mixed concrete trucks
   
70.07   Pedestrians
   
70.08   Using wireless communications devices while driving prohibited
   
70.09   Digging out prohibited
   
70.10   Stop and yield intersections
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.25   Authority to designate location of devices
   
70.26   Placing parking limitation signs
   
70.27   Validity and enforceability
   
70.28   Confirmation of those existing signs
   
70.29   Removal without authority
Parking Rules
   
70.40   Obstructing hydrant; parking in front of fire station
   
70.41   Parking in alley
   
70.42   Parking time limit generally
   
70.43   Parking on private property
   
70.44   Parking trucks
   
70.45   Parking, stopping and the like in residential subdivision
   
70.46   Parking in emergency zone
   
70.47   Parking for purposes of advertising, selling or repair
   
70.48   Parking lights at night
   
70.49   Continuous center-left turn lane
   
70.50   Impounding vehicles
   
70.51   Parking for persons with disabilities; enforcement
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM ACT.
   The Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, being generally the state’s
Transportation Code, being Tex. Transportation Code Title 1 et seq., is hereby
adopted by the city to hereafter be the law governing the operation of all
vehicles upon the streets of the city.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC SAFETY ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Traffic Safety Advisory Committee composed
of seven members who shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   Initial appointment of members shall be by staggered terms: two
members to be appointed for one-year terms; two members to be appointed for
two-year terms; and three members to be appointed for three-year terms.
Thereafter, all members shall serve for a three-year term.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Traffic Safety Advisory Committee to
function in an advisory capacity to the City Council and the Director of Public
Works. The Committee shall serve the community by planning, conducting,
promoting and assisting in activities designed to decrease the number, severity
and cost of traffic accidents.
      (2)   Its objectives shall be to prevent adverse traffic conditions in
the city and make recommendations to the City Council designed to reduce and
eliminate traffic accidents, injuries and deaths resulting therefrom and the
best methods which, in its judgment, should be adopted to accomplish such
result.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 70.03 PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to form any parade or to move such
parade over any public street or plaza, except with the permission and under
the direction of the Police Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to allow any vehicle to remain upon any street at
such places as to interfere with any parade or procession using the streets
under police permission.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Mass Gathering Act, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 751.001 et seq.
§ 70.04 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to drive any vehicle
over any fire hose or over any other property belonging to the Fire Department.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 545.302
§ 70.05 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   All motor vehicles, being operated by members of the Fire Department
(whether paid or in voluntary service), in the course of answering an alarm or
reporting to firefighting or other emergency duties, in addition to fire
trucks, other emergency vehicles and police vehicles belonging to the city, are
hereby designated as “authorized emergency vehicles” within the meaning and
intent of Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201, as amended.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 70.06 WEIGHT LIMITATIONS OF READY-MIXED CONCRETE TRUCKS.
   (A)   The city hereby finds that all of the public highways which are
maintained within its municipal boundary are insufficient to carry maximum
gross vehicle axle load which were authorized in Tex. Transportation Code §
622.012.
   (B)   Therefore, the city prescribes that no vehicles transporting ready-
mixed concrete over public highways within the city shall carry more than
weight limitations as follows:
      (1)   Vehicle with a tandem axle load not to exceed 36,000 pounds;
      (2)   Single axle loads not to exceed 12,000 pounds; and
      (3)   Gross loads not to exceed 48,000 pounds.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Local regulatory authority, see Tex. Transportation Code § 622.014
§ 70.07 PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   The crossing of U.S. 83 bypass main lanes by pedestrians is strictly
prohibited unless a pedestrian overpass is provided for the crossing.
   (B)   The crossing of U.S. 83 bypass frontage roads by pedestrians shall be
at designated crosswalks only.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 USING WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICES WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT VEHICLE. A motor vehicles owned by the United
States, the state or a political subdivision of the state.
      ELECTRONIC MESSAGE. A self-contained piece of digital communication that
is designed or intended to be transmitted to or from a wireless communication
device, other than a voice message. An ELECTRONIC MESSAGE includes, but is not
limited to, a text-based communication, a non-verbal command or request to
access or receive information from an internet site, electronic mail, a text
message, an instant message or such other data that uses a commonly recognized
electronic communications protocol.
      OPERATE or OPERATING. To drive or be in physical control of a motor
vehicle that is in motion.
      OPERATOR. A person who drives or has physical control of a motor vehicle.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE. Has the meaning assigned in Tex.
Transportation Code § 545.425 (“Use of Wireless Communication Device;
Offense”).
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for an operator of a motor vehicle to use
wireless communication device to view, send or compose an electronic message or
manually engage other application software while operating a motor vehicle upon
any roadway in the city, including when stopped, except as provided in division
(B)(2) below.
      (2)   It is an exception to the prohibition in division (B)(1) above if:
         (a)   An operator of motor vehicle uses a wireless communication
device to strictly engage in a telephone conversation or to listen to a
voicemail message, including dialing or deactivating a phone cell;
         (b)   An operator of a motor vehicle uses a wireless communication
device while stopped or standing at a position parallel to and as close as
possible to the right-hand edge or curb or a rowdy where parking, standing or
stopping in non-emergency situation is not otherwise prohibited; or
         (c)   An operator of a motor vehicle uses a wireless communication
device solely in a voce-activated or other hands-free mode.
   (C)   It is affirmative defense to prosecution of conduct prohibited in
division (B)(1) above if:
      (1)   An operator of an authorized government vehicle uses a wireless
communication device to respond to an emergency while action in an official
capacity while operating an authorized government vehicle; and/or
      (2)   An operator of a motor vehicle uses a wireless communication device
to:
         (a)   Operate only a global positioning or navigation system;
         (b)   Obtain emergency assistance by contacting an emergency response
service, including rescue, emergency medical, hazardous material response
service, a hospital, a fire department, a law enforcement agency, a medical
doctor’s office or an individual to administer first aid treatment;
         (c)   Obtain emergency assistance to prevent a crime about to be
committed;
         (d)   Report a traffic accident or serious traffic hazard; or
         (e)   Communicate with the reasonable belief that a person’s life,
safety or property is in immediate danger.
   (D)   To the extent that any clause, phrase, provision, sentence on part of
this section conflicts with the Tex. Transportation Code § 545.424 regarding
the use of wireless communications devices while operating a motor vehicle by
minors or Tex. Transportation Code § 545.425, regarding the use of wireless
communication devices in school crossing zones, this section does not apply.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 5-17-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 DIGGING OUT PROHIBITED.
   Any driver of any motor vehicle who shall willfully cause such vehicle to
dig out or shall cause any such vehicle to make unnecessary noise by reason of
operating such vehicle in such manner as to cause the wheels thereof to spin or
slide on the roadway of any street or public school parking lot or roadway when
starting such vehicle or while making any turning movement shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-20-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   This section is adopted pursuant to the Constitution and statutes of
the state, including particularly Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201.
   (B)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the orderly and safe
movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic within the city by providing for
the location of stop and yield signs at appropriate street junctures.
   (C)   The Police Chief of city may erect traffic-control devices in the
future to provide for the orderly and safe movement of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic as he or she deems necessary.
(Ord. 94-04, passed 7-19-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.25 AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE LOCATION OF DEVICES.
   The City Manager, through the Chief of Police and Police Department, is
hereby authorized to designate, locate and establish all necessary traffic-
control devices within the city, at any location deemed necessary by the staff
after a proper and adequate survey and after a necessity has been deemed to
exist by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 70.26 PLACING PARKING LIMITATION SIGNS.
   The City Manager, through the Chief of Police, shall hereafter cause signs
to be posted in all areas where parking is limited or prohibited, indicating
such limitation or prohibition, and such parking limitations shall be valid
upon such designation by the Chief of Police, after proper and adequate study
and survey, and after the location of such limitation is deemed necessary.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 70.27 VALIDITY AND ENFORCEABILITY.
   All traffic-control devices and parking limitations established by the City
Manager, through the Chief of Police, shall be deemed valid and enforceable as
if the City Council had individually designated each of such traffic-control
devices or parking limitations and shall be enforced by criminal sanction as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 70.28 CONFIRMATION OF THOSE EXISTING SIGNS.
   Any traffic-control device and parking limitation in existence at this time,
whether effectively authorized by the City Council or the City Manager or the
Chief of Police, is hereby confirmed to be valid and enforceable; except that,
the public must have reasonable notice of such control device or limitation by
proper designation.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 70.29 REMOVAL WITHOUT AUTHORITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the City Manager or
the Chief of Police to remove, change, destroy or deface any traffic-control
device or parking limitation designation which has been established pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING RULES
§ 70.40 OBSTRUCTING HYDRANT; PARKING IN FRONT OF FIRE STATION.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to park an
automobile or place any other obstruction within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
   (B)   No one shall park a vehicle within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to
a fire station and, on the side of the street opposite the entrance to the fire
station, within 75 feet of the entrance, if the entrance is properly marked
with a sign.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 545.302
§ 70.41 PARKING IN ALLEY.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.42 PARKING TIME LIMIT GENERALLY.
   (A)   Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle for a longer consecutive period of time than that designated between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., in any area designated as a limited
parking area and so marked.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a longer consecutive
period of time than 24 hours in any area designated or undesignated as a
limited parking area.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.43 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.44 PARKING TRUCKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any truck, other than what is commonly
known as a “pick-up” truck, on any street or portion thereof where the Police
Department has clearly indicated by proper sign or marks that such truck
parking shall not be permitted.
   (B)   The Police Department shall so restrict parking or standing of such
trucks wherever such parking shall impede or interfere with the orderly passage
or control of traffic.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any truck, truck tractor,
road tractor, semi-trailer, bus, trailer or any other motor vehicle with a
gross weight of 10,000 pounds or more upon any public street, alley, parkway,
boulevard or public place which abuts any property zoned as residential
property according to Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.45 PARKING, STOPPING AND THE LIKE IN RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      18 WHEELER. A large tractor-trailer truck, a semi-trailer, plus the truck
or tractor pulling it. From the total number of wheels: two front steering
wheels on the tractor, plus dual wheels on each end of two axles (total of
eight) at the rear of the tractor and supporting the front of the trailer, plus
dual wheels on two axles at the rear of the trailer.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
         (a)   MOTOR HOME. A portable or temporary dwelling to be used for
travel, recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-
propelled vehicle.
         (b)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a
chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational
and vacation uses, permanently identified as a travel trailer by the
manufacture of the trailer.
      ROAD TRACTOR. A motor vehicle designed or used for drawing other vehicles
or loads, and not so constructed as to independently carry thereon a load or
any part of the weight of the vehicle or load being drawn.
      SEMI-TRAILER. A vehicle or trailer used or designed to be used in
conjunction with a motor vehicle that carries or supports some part or all of
its weight or load.
      TRUCK. A motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property with a manufacturer’s rated gross vehicle weight
exceeding 10,000 pounds, and is not intended to include those TRUCKS commonly
known as pick-up truck.
   (B)   Prohibited locations.
      (1)   The parking, standing or stopping of any 18 wheelers, semi-
trailers, trucks, road tractors or recreational vehicles, as such terms are
defined in this provision, is strictly prohibited on the road, right-of-way,
street or sidewalk in a residential subdivision.
      (2)   This prohibition is applicable to any new or existing residential
subdivision notwithstanding:
         (a)   Regarding the date of the subdivision in which the residence is
located, the date of annexation of the property on which the residence is
located; or
         (b)   The fact that it was not per se unlawful to park or allow the
prescribed vehicle to be parked on the right-of-way, road, street or sidewalk
prior to the dale this prohibition was adopted by the City Council.
   (C)   Prosecution. In the prosecution of any violation of this section,
there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the owner and/or occupant of the
property allowed the vehicle, as defined by this provision, to be either
parked, left standing or stopped, where prohibited.
   (D)   Applicability. The provisions of this section apply on all days and on
all hours of both day time and night time.
   (E)   Exception. This section shall not prohibit the parking of a truck for
the purpose of temporary loading or unloading.
   (F)   Conflict with other ordinances. Whenever the applicable standards and
specifications in this section conflict with those contained in another
ordinance, the most stringent or restrictive provision shall govern.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 3-15-2016) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.46 PARKING IN EMERGENCY ZONE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, cause or permit to be
parked any motor vehicle in any emergency zone.
   (B)   The term EMERGENCY ZONE, as used herein, is defined to mean and
include any place having been designated as an emergency zone by the Police
Department and having been painted red or yellow along the curb of such
emergency zone.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.47 PARKING FOR PURPOSES OF ADVERTISING, SELLING OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
repairing it, displaying it for sale or to park any vehicle upon any business
sheet from which vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.48 PARKING LIGHTS AT NIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful to leave any vehicle standing in the street at night
without amber lights visible 1,000 feet from the front of the vehicle and red
lights visible 1,000 feet from the rear of the vehicle, except in lighted
areas.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.49 CONTINUOUS CENTER LEFT-TURN LANE
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall determine, unless
otherwise determined by the state, which roadways shall designate which
roadways shall utilize dedicated center lanes. Such center lanes shall be
utilized for left turns only.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in dedicated center lanes and
such violations shall be punishable pursuant to the penalty provisions of this
chapter or state law.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.50 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   In the event any vehicle shall be found standing or parked in or upon any
street or regularly designated parking meter space, in violation of and
contrary to any of the provisions of this chapter, the same shall be a nuisance
per se and shall be removed by any police officer and taken to some place
designated by the Chief of Police for such purpose, and there kept by such
officer until application for its redemption shall be made by the owner, who
shall be entitled to the possession thereof upon payment of the city of the sum
of $2, together with all other costs of removal and storage that may have
accrued thereon. In the event of the vehicle impounded shall not be redeemed by
its owner within 30 days, then such vehicle shall be sold for such penalty,
charges and costs in the manner provided by ordinances of the city for the sale
of abandoned vehicles. The remedy and impounding fee and costs provided for in
this section shall be cumulative of all other penalties provided by ordinances
of the city.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 70.51 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall have the authority to
appoint or remove any qualified person who is a citizen of the United States,
is a resident of the city, is of good moral character and who has not
previously been convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor of a Grade B or higher
to enforce the provisions of Tex. Transportation Code §§ 681.001 et seq. in the
city.
   (B)   Each person appointed pursuant to this section shall complete an
application and satisfactorily complete a course of training on the enforcement
of the law on parking for disabled persons.
   (C)   The application required by division (B) above shall show the name and
address of the applicant, the name and address of the immediate members of the
family of the applicant, the applicant’s marital status and shall have attached
thereto a photograph of the applicant, together with sufficient fingerprints to
definitely identify the applicant. The Chief of Police or his or her designee
is specifically authorized to require additional information from the
applicant. Upon receipt of the application required by the division (B) above,
the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall cause a complete and thorough
investigation to be made of the applicant to determine his or her moral,
physical and mental qualifications.
   (D)   Any qualified persons so appointed to enforce the statute shall have
the power to serve citations for violations for failure to comply with the
provisions of Tex. Transportation Code §§ 681.001 et seq. Issuance of citations
shall be made in the same manner as any law enforcement officer of the state,
county or municipality of the state, subject to the following limitations.
      (1)   No person so appointed shall be deemed a peace officer, nor an
employee of the state, county or the city, nor receive any compensation
therefrom.
      (2)   No appointed person shall be required to complete training as a
peace officer.
      (3)   No appointed person shall have the power or duty to enforce other
traffic or criminal laws.
      (4)   No appointed person shall possess or carry firearms or other
weapons for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of the law on parking for
the disabled.
      (5)   No appointed person shall be entitled to any indemnification from
the state, the county or the city for any injury or property damage sustained
as a result of enforcement activities. Each appointed person shall specifically
acknowledge that such person has no rights to any claim of injury or property
damage which may result while enforcing the provisions of the law on parking
for the disabled.
      (6)   No government, agency, department or officer of the state, county
or the city shall be liable or accountable for any act or omission of any
person appointed to issue citations for violations of the law made the subject
of this section. Each authorized person shall specifically hold harmless the
city, its employees, officers and agents from liability for any such act or
omission by such authorized person.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter, with exceptions
listed below, are punishable by a fine not to exceed $2,000 unless otherwise
stated in any specific provision hereof.
   (B)   A violation of §
70.09 of this chapter may result in a fine of $250 and applicable court fees or
fines.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
70.10 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $200.
   (D)   Whenever an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, a
public nuisance, an offense or a misdemeanor or the failure to comply with the
enforcement of §
70.45 of this chapter is declared to be unlawful and shall be punished by a
fine of no greater than $2,000.
(Ord. 94-04, passed 7-19-1994; Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-18-2006; Ord. 2009-03,
passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2016-01, passed 3-15-2016)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   Speed limits
      
III.   Trucks, tractors and semi-trailers prohibited
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
 
Intersection                               Type of Stop
J.R. Pena Boulevard and Bentsen Palm Drive Four-way
Mile 1 and La Homa Roads                   Four-way
 
(Ord. 91-01, passed 4-16-1991; Ord. 95-02, passed 3-21-1995)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street/Location                 Speed Limit Penalty
East of FM 2894 between U.S. 83 30 mph      Misdemeanor; not less than $1, nor
to FM 495                                   more than $300
FM 492                          45 mph       
U.S. 83 Frontage Road from 100
feet west of Abram Road (west   50 mph       
city limits) to Edinburg Main
Canal (east city limits)
 
(Ord. 98-10, passed 8-22-1998; Ord. 99-11, passed 10-19-1999; Ord. 2003-05,
passed 11-18-2003)
SCHEDULE III. TRUCKS, TRACTORS AND SEMI-TRAILERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is in the best interest of the welfare and safety of its residents
to regulate the operation of any truck, semi-trailer or road tractor on the
following streets:
Name of Street Location
Name of Street              Location
Abram Road                  Between West Loop 374 (Business 83) and Interstate
                            2 Frontage
Abram Road                  Between Veterans Boulevard (FM 495) and Orange
                            Grove Road (Mile 2 Road)
Bentsen Palm Drive          Between West Loop 374 (Business 83) and Orange
                            Grove Road (Mile 2 Road)
Breyfogle Road              Between West Loop 374 (Business 83) and Orange
                            Grove Road (Mile 2 Road)
East Goodwin Road           Between Interstate 2 Frontage and Orange Grove Road
                            (Mile 2 Road)
Goodwin Acres Road          Between Veterans Boulevard (FM 495) and Orange
                            Grove Road (Mile 2 Road)
                            Between Interstate 2 Frontage and the city limit
Greene Road                 line (approximately 1,100 feet south of Carlos
                            Circle)
La Homa Road                Between West Loop 374 (Business 83) and Interstate
                            2 Frontage
Minnesota Road              Between West Loop 374 (Business 83) and Orange
                            Grove Road (Mile 2 Road)
Palmview Drive              Between Veterans Boulevard (FM 495) and Interstate
                            2 Frontage
                            Between West Loop 374 (Business 83) and the city
S. Goodwin Road             limit line (approximately 1,700 feet south of Mike
                            Barrera Street)
                            Between West Loop 374 (Business 83) and the city
Scott Lane                  limit line (approximately 475 feet south of Jimenez
                            Lane)
                            Between West Loop 374 (Business 83) and the city
Tordillo Road               limit line (approximately 3,000 feet south of West
                            Loop 374)
Veterans Boulevard (FM 495) Between La Homa Road and Abram Road
                            Between West Loop 374 (Business 83) and the city
Watson Road                 limit line (approximately 3,000 feet south of West
                            Loop 374)
 
   (B)   The prohibition set forth in this schedule does not apply to: the
operation of trucks, semitrailers and road tractors traveling on streets other
than designated truck routes strictly for the purposes of pick-up or delivery
to specific locations, or to obtain service, repairs, lodging or fuel in the
normal course of business when there is no other alternate designated truck
route of access to such location requiring a stop within the city; provided
that, all vehicles departing from an established truck route under one of the
stated exceptions shall immediately thereafter return to a designated truck
route by the most direct means practical.
   (C)   The city shall place and maintain traffic-control signs evidencing the
prohibition or permission of truck traffic on the portion or portions of
roadways set out in this schedule, which signs shall conform to current
standards as set out in the Texas Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices
with regard to shape, size, color, letter size and style, mounting and
location.
   (D)   Fines may range from any minimum to $300 maximum.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 7-27-2005; Ord. 2020-16-O, passed 12-15-2020)
CHAPTER 72: TRUCK AND HAZARDOUS MATERIAL ROUTES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Truck and hazardous material routes
   
72.03   Through traffic
   
72.04   Exceptions
   
72.05   Signs
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. A substance or material in a quantity and form which may
pose an unreasonable risk to health and safety or property. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
may include products which are described as explosive, radioactive, etiologic
agents, flammable or combustible liquids or solids, poisons, oxidizing or
corrosive and compressed gases.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL ROUTE. A roadway designated as such in this chapter and
upon which hazardous materials are authorized to be transported.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every device in or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway and which device is self-propelled.
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed or used for drawing other
vehicles or loads and not so constructed as to carry a load independently or
any part of the weight of the drawn road or vehicle.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Vehicles of the trailer type, so designed or used in
conjunction with a motor vehicle that some part of its own weight and that of
its load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   TRUCK. Any motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property with a manufacturer-rated carrying capacity
exceeding 2,000 pounds and is not intended to include those trucks commonly
known as pickup trucks, panel delivery trucks and carry-all trucks, unless they
are carrying hazardous material.
   TRUCK ROUTE. A roadway designated as such in this chapter and upon which the
operation of trucks, semi-trailers or road tractors is authorized.
   TRUCK TRAFFIC. Vehicular traffic of trucks, semi-trailers or road tractors.
(Ord. 2023-01-O, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 72.02 TRUCK AND HAZARDOUS MATERIAL ROUTES.
   (A)   There is hereby established and created certain truck and hazardous
material routes through and around the city for all trucks, semi-trailers, road
tractors or any vehicle carrying hazardous materials entering or exiting the
city, as follows:
      (1)   On Loop 374 from La Homa Road to west of Abram Road.
      (2)   On Interstate Highway 2 from Moorefield Road to Showers Road.
      (3)   On Veterans Boulevard from Moorefield Road to La Homa Road.
      (4)   On Abram Road from Mile 1 S to Loop 374.
      (5)   On Goodwin Road from Loop 374 to Orange Grove Road.
      (6)   On Bentsen Palm Drive from London Ave to Loop 374.
      (7)   On La Homa Road from Interstate Highway 2 to Orange Grove Road.
   (B)   The designated truck and hazardous material routes through and around
the city shall be those illustrated in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 2023-01-O by
reference and available in the city offices and made a part of this section.
(Ord. 2023-01-O, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 72.03 THROUGH TRAFFIC.
   Through traffic of any truck, semi-trailer, road tractor or hazardous
material carrier on any street within the city, other than those streets or
highways specifically designated is expressly prohibited, and declared to be
unlawful.
(Ord. 2023-01-O, passed 3-7-2023) Penalty see §
72.99
§ 72.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The terms, provisions and regulations set forth in this chapter do not
and are not intended to apply to trucks, semi-trailers, road tractors or
hazardous material carriers entering the city and traveling on streets other
than those designated in this chapter for the purpose of pickup and delivery to
specific locations.
   (B)   Street construction, maintenance and repair vehicles engaged in the
construction, maintenance, or repair of city streets.
   (C)   Authorized emergency vehicles responding to emergency calls.
   (D)   Vehicles used or operated by the city performing city business.
   (E)   Vehicles used by a city franchisee for the franchisee's approved
activities.
   (F)   All vehicles departing from established truck and hazardous material
routes under the stated exceptions in this chapter shall return to such route
by the most direct means practical.
(Ord. 2023-01-O, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 72.05 SIGNS.
   The Public Works Director for the city is hereby directed to post
appropriate signs, at his discretion, upon local streets notifying the public
that no truck or hazardous material traffic is allowed thereon. These signs
shall conform to current standards, as set out in the Texas Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control devices with regard to shape, size, color, letter size, style,
mounting and location.
(Ord. 2023-01-O, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of an offense under this chapter shall be considered to
be endangering the health of the citizens of the city and will be subject to a
fine of not less than $1 and no greater than $1,000 for any violation thereof.
(Ord. 2023-01-O, passed 3-7-2023)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
93.   SMOKING REGULATIONS
      
94.   ALARM SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Keeping of hogs prohibited
   
90.02   Poisonous, dangerous animals
   
90.03   Keeping livestock near buildings; area requirements for livestock
   
90.04   Keeping of fowl; area and sanitary requirements; declaration of
nuisance
   
90.05   Maintenance of premises where livestock kept; disposal of manure
   
90.06   Inspection of premises
   
90.07   Fowl or livestock running at-large prohibited
   
90.08   Impoundment of animals
   
90.09   Rabies; confinement or disposal; local rabies authority
   
90.10   Exemption for land zoned Agricultural-Open Space
   
90.11   Animal fighting
   
90.12   Bird sanctuary
   
90.13   Enforcement of chapter
Dogs and Cats
   
90.25   Definitions
   
90.26   Dogs running at-large prohibited
   
90.27   Confinement during rabies emergency
   
90.28   Barking dogs
   
90.29   Maintenance of premises where dogs and cats kept
   
90.30   Unvaccinated dogs or cats
Vicious Animals
   
90.45   Definition
   
90.46   Vicious animal declaration
   
90.47   Requirements for keeping vicious animals
   
90.48   Impoundment and destruction
   
90.49   Notice of impoundment; hearing
   
90.50   Exemptions
   
90.51   Change of status; notification of Code Enforcement Officer
   
90.52   Change of ownership
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 KEEPING OF HOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any hog or pig within the city
limits at any time.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 POISONOUS, DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any poisonous reptile
or dangerous animal within the city.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 KEEPING LIVESTOCK NEAR BUILDINGS; AREA REQUIREMENTS FOR LIVESTOCK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to feed, breed, stable, pasture or keep
any cow, goat, horse, sheep or any other animal of like species in or on any
lot, pen, building, parcel of land, stable or other enclosure in the city, any
part of which lot, pen, building, stable, parcel of land or other enclosure is
nearer than 200 feet to any building occupied by any person during any part of
the day or night. A minimum of 400 square feet of area shall be required for
each such animal.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 KEEPING OF FOWL; AREA AND SANITARY REQUIREMENTS; DECLARATION OF
NUISANCE.
   (A)   Area requirements. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
harbor, maintain or permit any person to keep, harbor, maintain or permit the
presence on any lot or parcel of land within the city of more than one of any
fowl of any kind, sex or description for each ten square feet of ground area
available for such purpose. It shall be further unlawful for any person to
keep, harbor, maintain or permit the presence on any lot or parcel of land
within the city of more than six of any mature poultry or fowl of any kind, sex
or description on any lot or parcel of land of one acre or less.
   (B)   Sanitary requirements. Each place in the city used for feeding,
harboring or keeping any poultry or fowl shall be maintained in a sanitary
manner at all times and kept free of offensive odors, flies, rodents and other
pests.
   (C)   Declaration of nuisance; complaint; violation. It shall be unlawful to
keep any poultry or fowl in the city which, by loud, frequent or habitual
crowing or any other noise annoyance from such animal, shall disturb the peace
and quiet of any person of ordinary sensitivities. Any such person who believes
that there has been a violation of this division (C) shall have the right to
file a complaint against the owner or keeper of such poultry or fowl in the
Municipal Court of the city, whereupon a hearing within a reasonable time
thereafter shall be held and a determination made as to whether such loud,
frequent or habitual crowing or other noise annoyed the peace of such person
and, if so, the court may, thereupon, declare such fowl to be a nuisance and
order the owners or keeper therefrom to remove such fowl from the city limits.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES WHERE LIVESTOCK KEPT; DISPOSAL OF MANURE.
   (A)   Each place in the city used for feeding, breeding, stabling, pasturing
or keeping any cow, goat, horse, sheep or any other animal of like species
shall be kept free of offensive odors, flies, rodents and other pests. Each
lot, pen, building, stable or other enclosure in or on which any such animal is
kept, fed, bred, stabled, pastured or housed shall have a suitable manure box
or container in which all manure and dropping shall be placed daily. Each box
or container shall be securely screened or otherwise protected from flies,
vermin and rodents, and shall be cleaned out and disinfected at least once a
week.
   (B)   Manure from such boxes or containers shall not be left in open stacks,
but shall be removed or buried.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Each person keeping animals or fowl within the corporate limits of the
city shall, upon request of the CEO, after proper identification and during
reasonable times, permit access to the area or places of keeping of animate or
fowl, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Should the CEO be denied entry, he or she then shall make application
for a search warrant to enter the premises, such warrant to be issued by the
Municipal Court Judge of the city upon proper application therefor.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 FOWL OR LIVESTOCK RUNNING AT-LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow any fowl or livestock
owned or possessed by him or her or under his or her control to run at-large or
to wander in or upon or invade the premises of any other person, without such
person’s consent, within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be the duty of the CEO to seize and deliver to the humane society’s
regional animal shelter any and all animals, including livestock, fowl, dogs or
cats, found in violation of the provisions of this chapter. The owner of any
animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter may claim such animal
after paying an applicable fee and otherwise following the rules and
regulations of the Upper Valley Humane Society.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013)
§ 90.09 RABIES; CONFINEMENT OR DISPOSAL; LOCAL RABIES AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who knows of an animal bite or scratch to an
individual that the person could reasonably foresee as being capable of
transmitting rabies, or who knows of any animal that the person suspects as
rabid, shall report the incident or animal to the CEO. The report to be given
under this section shall contain the name and address of the victim or animal.
In addition, upon written complaint of any person, the owner of such animal, if
known, shall be notified by the CEO by the most expedient means available,
which notification confines such animal for a period of not less than ten days
from the date of such attack. The term PROPERLY CONFINE shall be constructed to
include:
         (a)   Confinement in an annual hospital under the supervision of a
licensed veterinarian, who
shall notify the CEO by telephone the same day such animal is received and
further notify the CEO by telephone immediately upon the development of any
symptoms auspicious of rabies; or
         (b)   Confinement in a humane society animal shelter, under the direct
supervision of a licensed veterinarian, who shall notify the CEO by telephone
the same day such animal is received and further notify the CEO by telephone
immediately upon the development of any symptoms suspicious of rabies.
      (2)   In no event shall any animal which is the subject of this section
be allowed to remain at the owner’s home unless a written evaluation by a
licensed veterinarian, establishing the animal’s safety, is acquired by the
owner and submitted to the CEO.
   (B)   Any animal dying of, or killed while suffering from, rabies or
suspected of suffering from rabies shall be held for such disposition of the
body, and under such conditions, as the CEO may prescribe.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   The city’s Animal Control Officer, Health Officer and
peace officer are designated as the local rabies control authority for the
city. The city is authorized to enter into an agreement to designate the
following entity as a local rabies control authority: the Palm Valley Animal
Center, located in Edinburg, Texas, is hereby designated as an authorized
representative for the city’s local rabies control authority.
         (b)   The local rabies control authority shall enforce:
            1.   Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 826, cited as the Rabies
Control Act of 1981;
            2.   City rules, regulations, ordinances and codes related to
animal control; and
            3.   Rules adopted by the executive commission under the area
rabies quarantine provisions of Tex. Health and Safety Code § 826.045;
            4.   Tex. Administrative Code Ch. 169, Zoonosis Control, Rule §
169.27, Quarantine Method and Testing, with the following exception: the local
rabies control authority shall not allow home confinement of a dog, cat or
domestic ferret that has bitten a human has been identified, to quarantine such
animals;
            5.   Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 821, Treatment and Disposition
of Animals; and
            6.   Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 822, Regulations of Animals.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer, Health Officer and peace officer are
authorized to enforce the provisions of this division (C), other applicable
state law or rules and:
         (a)   Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 821, Treatment and Disposition
of Animals; and
         (b)   Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 822, Regulations of Animal.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013; Ord. 2017-01, passed 1-17-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to adopt this chapter and to designate a local rabies
control authority, see Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 826, §§ 826.013, 826.015
and 826.017
§ 90.10 EXEMPTION FOR LAND ZONED AGRICULTURAL-OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this code of ordinances, the
following sections of this chapter shall not be applicable to any land zoned
Agricultural-Open Space, designated according to Ch. 156 of this code of
ordinances:
      (1)   Section 90.01 of this chapter;
      (2)   Section 90.03 of this chapter;
      (3)   Section 90.04 of this chapter; and
      (4)   Section 90.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   No person owning property under which divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4)
above are inapplicable shall utilize such property for the purposes of keeping
animals thereon where such utilization shall cause or constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 ANIMAL FIGHTING.
   No person shall possess, harbor or maintain care or custody of any animal
for fighting contests, nor shall any person train, torment, badger, bait or use
any animal for the reason of causing or encouraging the animal to attack human
beings or domestic animals.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CAGED BIRD. Includes any caged bird legally propagated and raised in
captivity for the purpose, but does not include birds captured in the wild.
      DOMESTIC FOWL. Includes chicken (Gallus gallus), turkey, domestic Mallard
duck (Anas Platyrhynchos), domestic Muscovy duck (Cairina moschaeta), domestic
goose (Anser anser), Chinese goose (Anser cygnoides), swans (Cygnus spp.),
helmeted guineafowl (Numida meleagris), ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus
colchicus), common peafowl (Pavo cristatus), domestic pigeon (Colomba livia),
ostrich (Struthio emelus), emu (Dromaius novaehollandiae), greater rhea (Rhea
americana) or other domesticated fowl.
      EXCLUDED SPECIES. Includes domestic fowl, legally caged birds and non-
native birds, whether naturalized or not. EXCLUDED SPECIES are not covered by
this section. For some species, domesticated individuals are excluded as
private property while wild individuals are included as native birds.
      NATIVE BIRD. A bird belonging to a species naturally occurring or
residing in or migrating through the city without benefit of current or past
transport by humans.
      NON-NATIVE BIRDS. Includes feral rock dove (Columba livia), European
starling (Sturnus vulgaris), house sparrow (Passer domesticus), any member of
the parrot family (Psittacidae) not native to the states of Nuevo Leon and
Tamaulipas, Mexico, or Texas and any other birds transported by humans to North
America and released. Naturalized NON-NATIVE BIRDS are those birds which have
established themselves and are reproducing in the wild after transport by
humans, usually from another continent.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) within the city limits to
knowingly or intentionally injure, capture, harass or kill a native bird.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) within the city to knowingly or
intentionally take, remove or destroy nestling of native birds from a nest or
in any manner take, remove or destroy any eggs of native birds.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) within the city limits to
knowingly or intentionally cut down or in any other way harm any tree, shrub or
structure in which there exists an active nest of a native birds containing
nestlings or eggs on publicly-owned property. Property owners are asked and
encouraged to not cut down or harm any tree, shrub or structure in which and
while there exists an active nest of a native bird containing nestlings or eggs
on their private property.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) within the city limits to
knowingly or intentionally release from captivity any caged bird, domestic
fowl, non-native bird or naturalized bird. Owners should recapture escapees.
(Ord. 97-01, passed - -1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The CEO and the City Manager are granted the authority, and it shall
be their duty, to carry out the functions of this chapter. Whenever any other
officer or agent of the city is otherwise mentioned in this chapter, the terms
“CEO” or “City Manager”, are substituted therefor. In carrying out the duties
covered in this chapter, the CEO or City Manager may utilize as many personnel
as is necessary, including, but not limited to, any members of the Animal
Control Division or Police Department, all of whom are designated as
representatives of the CEO or City Manager and shall possess the authority
granted in this chapter. Whenever the terms “CEO” or “City Manager” are used in
this chapter, such terms shall also refer to and include the designated
representatives of the CEO.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuge permission to or refuge
to permit the CEO to go upon any premises during reasonable times when the CEO
is engaged in the enforcement of this chapter. The CEO is authorized to apply
for an administrative search warrant from the Municipal Court Judge of the
city, which Judge is authorized to grant such warrant upon reasonable grounds
in order to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. A male or female of the feline species, whether altered or not.
   CEO. Code Enforcement Officer for city.
   DOG. A male or female of the canine species, whether altered or not.
   OWNER. Any person owning, harboring or in any way keeping a dog and/or cat
within the limits of the city.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013)
§ 90.26 DOGS RUNNING AT-LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any keeper or owner of any dog to permit such dog
to run at large within the city. As used in this section, to RUN AT-LARGE is to
be free of restraint beyond the boundaries of the premises of the keeper. Any
such dog, when not upon the premises of its owner and which is controlled by a
leash held by a competent person, shall not be deemed running at-large. The CEO
is granted the authority to pick up and cause to be impounded any dog found
running at-large in the city.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 CONFINEMENT DURING RABIES EMERGENCY.
   The CEO, whenever he or she may detect danger from hydrophobia, shall
request that the Mayor issue a proclamation requiring all dogs to be properly
confined or securely muzzled, and it shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to fail to comply with such proclamation. Such proclamation shall be published
and broadcast for public dissemination.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 BARKING DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep any dog in the city which, by loud, frequent or
habitual barking or howling, shall cause annoyance and disturb the peace and
quiet of any person. Any such person who believes that there has been a
violation of this section shall have the right, and it shall be his or her
duty, to file a complaint against the owner or keeper of such dog in the
Municipal Court of the city, whereupon a hearing, within a reasonable time
thereafter, shall be held and a determination made as to whether such alleged
loud, frequent or habitual barking annoyed, and disturbed the peace of such
person and, if so, the Court may, thereupon, declare such loud, barking or
howling dog to be a nuisance and order such dog confined to the city pound for
a period of one week or to be removed by its owner or keeper from the city
limits.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES WHERE DOGS AND CATS KEPT.
   Every person keeping any dog or cat in the city shall maintain the area used
or occupied by such animal in a sanitary manner at all times and such area
shall be kept free of offensive odors, flies, rodents and other pests.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30 UNVACCINATED DOGS OR CATS.
   Any dog or cat which is unvaccinated for the disease of rabies and is
located within 5,000 feet of the corporate limits of the city, except where
such distance lies in an incorporated area of another city, is declared as
being a nuisance. The CEO is authorized to impound any dog or cat found within
such area, where such dog or cat is running at-large or is kept unrestricted
upon the premises of any person. Such animal shall be kept until the owner
furnishes proof of vaccination or causes the animal to be vaccinated. If the
owner thereof does not claim such animal or otherwise prove vaccination or
provide such vaccination, then the animal shall be humanely disposed of in
accordance with the procedures of the CEO.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
VICIOUS ANIMALS
§ 90.45 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, VICIOUS ANIMAL shall mean:
      (1)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise threaten the safety
of human beings or domestic animals;
      (2)   Any animal which, without provocation, has attacked or injured a
human being or domestic animal;
      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting or any animal trained for fighting;
      (4)   Any animal which, without provocation, chases or approaches a
person upon the streets, sidewalks or any public or private property in a
menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
      (5)   Any animal which has behaved in such a manner that the owner
thereof knows or should reasonably know that the animal is possessed of
tendencies to attack or to bite human beings or other animals.
   (B)   All other definitions provided for in this chapter shall be applicable
to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013)
§ 90.46 VICIOUS ANIMAL DECLARATION.
   (A)   Generally. If the CEO has cause to believe that an animal is vicious,
the CEO may find and declare that animal a “vicious animal” and order its
confinement under the provisions of division (B) below or may order its
destruction under the provisions of division (B) below, if applicable.
   (B)   Notice. Within five days of declaring an animal vicious, the CEO shall
notify the animal’s owner in writing of the declaration. The notice shall
identify the requirements and conditions for maintaining a vicious animal, as
set forth in this subchapter. If the owner cannot be located, the animal may be
immediately impounded and notice shall be posted on the owner’s property or
sent by certified mail to the owner’s last known address.
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   The owner of an animal declared vicious shall have the right to
file, within five days after receiving notice, a written request for a hearing
to contest the vicious animal declaration. The hearing shall be held within
five days after the CEO receives the owner’s written request.
      (2)   The hearing under this section shall be before the Municipal Judge
of the city and shall be informal, and strict rules of evidence shall not
apply. The owner may be represented by counsel, present oral and written
evidence and cross-examine witnesses.
      (3)   The Municipal Judge shall issue a decision within two days after
the close of the hearing under this division (C) and shall notify the owner in
writing of the decision.
      (4)   The Municipal Judge may uphold the vicious animal declaration, in
which event the owner shall comply with all of the requirements and conditions
for maintaining a vicious animal as set forth in this subchapter, or may
unconditionally release the animal to its owner.
      (5)   The decision of the Municipal Judge on the vicious animal
declaration is final.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013)
§ 90.47 REQUIREMENTS FOR KEEPING VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   The owner of a vicious animal shall be subject to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Confinement. All vicious animals shall be securely confined indoors or
in an enclosed and locked pen or structure upon the premises of the owner. The
pen or structure must have minimum dimensions of five feet by ten feet and must
have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. If no bottom is
secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded into the ground no less than
two feet. All pens or structures must be adequately lighted and kept clean and
sanitary. The enclosure must also protect the animal from the elements.
   (B)   Leash and muzzle. The owner of a vicious animal shall not allow the
animal to go outside its kennel, pen or structure unless the animal is muzzled,
restrained by a chain or leash not more than four feet in length and under the
physical control of a person. The muzzle must not cause injury to the animal or
interfere with its vision or respiration, but must prevent the animal from
biting any human or animal.
   (C)   Signs. The owner of a vicious animal shall display in a prominent
place on the owner’s premises a clearly visible warning sign indication that
there is a vicious animal on the premises. The sign must be readable from the
public highway or thoroughfare. The owner shall also display a sign with a
symbol warning children of the presence of a vicious animal. Similar signs
shall be posted on the animal’s kennel, pen or enclosed structure.
   (D)   Insurance. The owner of a vicious animal must provide proof to the
City Secretary that the owner has procured public liability insurance of at
least $100,000, insuring the owner for any damage or personal injury which may
be caused by such owner’s vicious animal.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.48 IMPOUNDMENT AND DESTRUCTION.
   The CEO may order the impoundment and destruction of any animal where:
   (A)   The animal has attacked, bitten or injured a human, being or domestic
animal and the circumstances indicate that there is a probability of additional
occurrences relating to such animals;
   (B)   The animal is a vicious animal, as defined in §
90.45 of this chapter, and the owner has failed to comply with the requirements
and conditions for keeping a vicious animal, as defined in §
90.47 of this chapter; or
   (C)   The animal poses a threat of serious harm to the public health or
safety.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013)
§ 90.49 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT; HEARING.
   (A)   Within two days of an impoundment under this subchapter, the CEO shall
notify the animal’s owner in writing of the impoundment.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of an impounded animal shall have the right to file,
within five days after receiving notice, a written request for a hearing to
contest the impoundment, which hearing shall be before the Municipal Judge of
the city.
      (2)   The impoundment hearing shall be informal and strict rules of
evidence shall not apply. The owner may be represented by counsel, present oral
and written evidence and cross-examination witnesses.
      (3)   The Municipal Judge shall issue a decision within two days after
the close of the hearing under this section and shall notify the owner in
writing of the decision.
      (4)   After considering all of the relevant evidence, the Municipal Judge
may order the destruction of the impounded animal or may release the animal to
its owner, conditional on the owner complying with the requirements for keeping
a vicious animal, as set forth in §
90.47 of this chapter, or complying with any other requirements necessary to
protect the public health or safety or may unconditionally release the animal
to its owner.
      (5)   If the owner of an animal impounded under this subchapter fails to
appear at a hearing or fails to request a hearing, the animal shall be
destroyed.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013)
§ 90.50 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not apply to animals used by the Police
Department or a law enforcement agency.
   (B)   No animal may be declared vicious for injury or damage sustained by a
person who was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises of
the animal’s owner.
   (C)   No animal may be declared vicious for injury or damage sustained by a
person who was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013)
§ 90.51 CHANGE OF STATUS; NOTIFICATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The owner of a vicious animal shall notify the CEO within three hours if the
vicious animal is unconfirmed and on the loose or has attacked a human being or
domestic animal.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013)
§ 90.52 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   If the owner of a vicious animal sells, gives away or otherwise transfers
custody of a vicious animal, the owner shall, within three days, provide the
CEO with the name, address and telephone number of the new owner. The previous
owner shall notify the new owner of the animal’s designation as a vicious
animal and the requirements and conditions for keeping a vicious animal.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The failure to obey the order of the Municipal Court under §
90.04 of this chapter shall constitute a Class C misdemeanor. In addition to
such remedy as provided in §
90.04 of this chapter, should there be a conviction for any otter violation of
§
90.04 of this chapter, the party convicted shall be subject to a fine as
provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
90.12 of this chapter or any subsequent amendments hereto, or who shall fail to
comply herewith, or with any of the requirements hereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be liable to a fine of not less than $10, nor more than
$500, for each offense; provided, however, that, such fine shall not exceed the
maximum fine allowed by both state and the City Charter for each offense. The
Police Department of the city is hereby authorized to arrest any person(s) who
violates any provision of §
90.12 of this chapter. The Director of Public Health and/or the Director of
Parks and Recreation or either’s representative is hereby authorized to issue
citations to any violator of §
90.12 of this chapter. Any citation issued shall state the alleged violation,
the date of the violation and the section of the code of ordinances violated.
(Ord. 97-01, passed - -1996; Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-9-2013)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Noise Regulations
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   General prohibition
   
91.03   Specific acts prohibited
   
91.04   Volume control in business establishments
   
91.05   Loudspeakers
   
91.06   Loud and raucous noise
Noise Nuisances
   
91.20   Declaration of nuisance
   
91.21   Acts enumerated
   
91.22   Definitions
   
91.23   Use of sound truck
Weeds, Brush, Trash and the Like
   
91.35   Definitions
   
91.36   Prohibited conditions and/or acts
   
91.37   Duty to cut or remove
   
91.38   Right of entry
   
91.39   Declaration of nuisance
   
91.40   Weedy lots
   
91.41   Notice to abate; contents
   
91.42   Abatement procedures
   
91.43   Billing for services rendered; costs; collection procedures
   
91.44   Legal proceedings
   
91.45   Liens
   
91.46   Liability disclaimer
 
   
91.99   Penalty
NOISE REGULATIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. Any place open for business, including, but not
limited to, restaurants, cafés, beer saloons, drive-in restaurants, drive-thru
businesses and dance halls, whether private or open to the public.
   DISTURBANCE. Such noise as offends the hearing sensibilities or the peace,
rest, quiet and response of an ordinary, normal person lawfully in the vicinity
of the origin of the noise; provided that, such noise is not reasonably
necessary to the enjoyment and protection of life and indispensable to the
progress of society in the city.
   JUKEBOX. A coin-operated phonograph permitting selection of the record to be
played.
   MUSICAL INSTRUMENT. An instrument used in the production of music.
   NOISE. A sound of any kind.
   ORCHESTRA. Three or more performers on musical instruments.
   PHONOGRAPH. Any sound reproducing machine using records, whether cylinders,
disks, taps or wire, usually, but not necessarily, consisting in the main of a
record changer, amplifier and a speaker.
   PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM. A combination of electronic devices designed to
transmit, amplify and reproduce speech and/or music so as to render it audible
to many people at the same time.
   RADIO. An apparatus for receiving radio broadcasts.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 10-27-2014)
§ 91.02 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by the operation of a radio, jukebox,
phonograph, musical instrument, orchestra, public address system or other
means, to create a disturbance within the city, or to knowingly permit the
creation of a disturbance at any place of business or premises owned, operated
or under the control of such person.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 10-27-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 SPECIFIC ACTS PROHIBITED.
   The doing of any of the following acts within the city is hereby declared to
be the creation of a disturbance and a violation of this subchapter:
   (A)   Discharging or shooting fireworks;
   (B)   Wilfully causing the backfire of the motor in any motor vehicle;
   (C)   Testing brakes on motor vehicle by causing the skidding of tires;
   (D)   Screaming, shouting, hollering or yelling;
   (E)   Using an unmuffled internal nomination motor on any lawn mower;
   (F)   Using any internal combustion motor-driven lawn mower between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (G)   Sounding the horn on any motor vehicle, other than using such horn as
a warning device;
   (H)   Operating a device emitting amplified music either recorded or live at
the flea market located at 3501 W. Palma Vista Drive;
   (I)   Shoot off, fire or discharge any gun, pistol, revolver or any firearm
of any description; and/or
   (J)   The loud and raucous use of any drum, guitar, horn, bull horn or other
musical instrument or device or mobile public address system.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 10-27-2014; Ord. 2018-01-O, passed 1-16-2018) Penalty,
see §
91.99
§ 91.04 VOLUME CONTROL IN BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   In business establishments maintaining and operating mechanical
devices emitting noise, there shall be maintained in working order thereon
volume controls which shall be so set, either permanently or temporarily, as to
prevent the emitting of noise amounting to a disturbance.
   (B)   When a volume control is not permanently set and a disturbance results
from noise emitting from such mechanical device, the owner and/or operator or
person in charge of such business shall be deemed in violation of this section,
regardless of whether a customer or employee or other person regulated the
volume of noise emitting from such device and creating a disturbance.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 10-27-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 LOUDSPEAKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate, or come to be used or
operated, any mechanical or electrical device, machine, apparatus or instrument
to intensify or to amplify or to reproduce the human voice, or to produce,
reproduce, intensify or amplify any other sound in any building or on any
premises in the city, whereby the sound therefrom is cast directly upon the
public streets or places or where such device is maintained and operated for
advertising purposes, or for the purpose of attracting the attention of the
passing public, or which is so placed or operated that the sounds coming
therefrom can be heard to the annoyance or inconvenience of travelers upon any
street or public place, or of persons in neighboring premises.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 10-27-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISE.
   The term LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISE, as used in this section, does not include
noise or sound generated by the following:
   (A)   Cries for emergency assistance and warning calls;
   (B)   Radios, sirens, horns and bells on police, fire and other emergency
response vehicles;
   (C)   Parades, firework displays and other special events for which a permit
has been obtained from the city are exempted; provided, there is compliance
with all conditions which have been noted in writing on the permit. Loud and
raucous noise produced as a result of non-compliance with any condition
specified on the permit is not exempted from the requirements of this chapter;
   (D)   Activities on or in publicly-owned property and facilities, or by
public employees while in the authorized discharge of their responsibilities,
are exempt; provided that, such activities have been authorized by the owner of
such property or facilities or its agent or by the employing authority; and/or
   (E)   Locomotives and other railroad equipment and aircraft.
(Ord. 2018-01-O, passed 1-16-2018) Penalty, see §
91.99
NOISE NUISANCES
§ 91.20 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Any unreasonable loud, disturbing, unnecessary noise which causes material
distress, discomfort or injury to persons of ordinary sensibilities in the
immediate vicinity thereof is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is hereafter
prohibited. Any noise of such character, intensity and continued duration,
which substantially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of private homes
by persons of ordinary sensibilities, is hereby declared to be nuisance and is
hereafter prohibited.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 1-15-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 ACTS ENUMERATED.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be nuisances in violation
of this subchapter, but said enumerations shall not be deemed to be exclusive,
to wit:
   (A)   The playing of any radio, phonograph or other musical instrument in
such manner or with such volume, particularly during the hours between 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
persons of ordinary sensibilities in any dwelling, hotel or other type of
residence;
   (B)   The use of any stationary loud speaker or amplifier of such intensity
that annoys and disturbs persons of ordinary sensibilities in the immediate
vicinity thereof; the use of any stationary loud speaker or amplifier operated
on any week day between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or any time on
Sunday;
   (C)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or long-
continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any persons of
ordinary sensibilities in the immediate vicinity;
   (D)   The continued or frequent sounding of any horn or signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus, street car or other vehicle except as a danger or
warning signal; the creation by means of any such signal device of any
unreasonably loud or harsh device for any unnecessary and reasonable period of
time;
   (E)   The running of any automobile, motorcycle, street car or vehicle so
out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary
grating, grinding, jarring or rattling noise or vibration;
   (F)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or to stop work or as warning of
danger;
   (G)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or boat engine, except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
   (H)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, unless
the noise to be created is effectively muffled and reduced;
   (I)   The creation, including excavation, demolition, alteration or repair
work on any building other that between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on
weekdays, except in case or urgent necessity in the interest of the public
safety and convenience, and then only by permit from the City Council, which
permit may be renewed by the Council during the time the emergency exists;
   (J)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school or institution of learning while the same is in session or adjacent to
any hospital which unreasonably interferes with the workings of such
institutions; providing, conspicuous signs are displayed in such manner
indicating that the same is a school or hospital street;
   (K)   The creation of any loud and excessive noise in connection with the
loading or unloading of any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
   (L)   The raucous shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and vendors, who
disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood; and/or
   (M)   The use of any drum, loud speaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by the creation of noise to any
performance, show or sale of merchandise.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 1-15-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Construed to impart the singular and plural as the case demands, and
shall include corporation, companies, societies and associations.
   SOUND AMPLIFYING. Any machine or device for the amplification of the human
voice, music or any other sound.
   SOUND TRUCK.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle or horse-drawn vehicle having mounted thereon, or
attached thereto, any sound amplifying equipment.
      (2)   See SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT.
   SOUND-AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT. Not construed as including standard automobile
radios when used and heard only occupants of the vehicle in which installed or
warning devices on authorized emergency vehicles or horns or other warning
devices on other vehicles used only for safety purposes.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 1-15-2013)
§ 91.23 USE OF SOUND TRUCK.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any sound truck in
the city for any purpose with sound amplifying equipment in operation unless a
license has been obtained from the City Secretary.
      (2)   The fee for said license shall be: $1 for non-commercial or civic
one-time use; and $3 for commercial one-time use and $25 for commercial use for
one year.
   (B)   Application for license. Persons applying for the license under
division (A) above shall file with the City Secretary an application in writing
giving in said application the information requested.
   (C)   Issuance of license. The City Secretary shall issue a license under
division (A) above upon payment of the required license fee unless the
application required in division (B) above reveals that the applicant would
violate the regulations prescribed in this subchapter or the provisions of some
other ordinance of the city, which shall be valid for one year from the date
issued.
   (D)   Possession and display of license. A licensee shall keep such license
in his or her possession in the sound truck during the time the sound truck’s
sound amplifying equipment is in operation. The license shall be promptly
displayed and shown to any police officer of the city, upon request.
   (E)   Regulation for use. No person shall operate or cause to be operated
any sound truck in violation of the regulations set forth hereafter.
      (1)   The only sounds permitted are music or human speech.
      (2)   Operations are permitted for one hour each day, except on Sunday
and legal holidays when no operations shall be authorized. The permitted one
hour of operation shall be between the hours of 4:30 p.m. and 5:30 p.m.
      (3)   Sound-amplifying equipment shall not be operated unless a sound
truck, upon which such equipment is mounted, is operated at a speed of at least
ten mph, except when such truck is stopped or impeded shall not be operated for
longer than one minute at each such stop.
      (4)   Sound shall not be issued within 100 yards of hospitals, school or
churches.
      (5)   The human speech and music amplified shall not be profane lewd,
indecent or slanderous.
      (6)   The volume of sound shall be controlled so that it will not be
audible for a distance in excess of 100 feet from the sound truck and so that
volume is not unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring, disturbing or a nuisance to
persons within the area of audibility.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 1-15-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
WEEDS, BRUSH, TRASH AND THE LIKE
§ 91.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANY AND ALL OTHER OBJECTIONABLE, UNSIGHTLY OR UNSANITARY MATTER OF WHATEVER
NATURE. Uncultivated vegetation, grass and plant growth. This term shall apply
to objects and matters not included within the meanings of the other terms
herein used, which are liable to produce or tend to produce an unhealthy,
unwholesome or unsanitary condition to the premises within the general locality
where the same are situated, and shall also include any species of weed, grass
or vegetation and plant growth, which might or may tend to be unhealthy to
individuals residing within the general locality of where the same are
situated.
   BRUSH. All trees, including palm and citrus trees, but not limited to, and
all shrubbery, hedge trimmings, tree limbs, branches and trimmings, plant and
shrub trimmings, leaves and limbs, yard cleanings and other similar items which
are not cultivated, nor cared for, by person(s) owning or controlling the
premises.
   LOT OR PARCEL OF REAL ESTATE. In addition to those grounds within their
respective boundaries, all lots or parcels of ground lying and being adjacent
thereto and extending beyond the property line of any such lot or parcel of
real estate to the curb line of adjacent streets where a curb line has been,
and 14 feet beyond the property line where no curb line has been established
and also to the center of adjacent alleys.
   TRASH. All refuse, rubbish, rejected tin cans, old vessels of all sorts and,
in general, all litter and all other things usually included within the meaning
of such term.
   WEEDS. All rank and uncultivated vegetation, grass or plant matter which has
grown to more than 12 inches in height or which, regardless of height, is
liable to produce an unhealthy, unsightly, unwholesome or unsanitary condition
or become a harboring place for mosquitoes, vermin or vectors.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-22-2008)
§ 91.36 PROHIBITED CONDITIONS AND/OR ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation, as the owner,
tenant or agent and/or both, of any premises to allow or permit any filth,
grass, weeds, brush, trimmings, plants that are not cultivated, rubbish, trash
and all other objectionable, unsightly and unsanitary matter of whatever
nature, or any other impure or unwholesome matter of any king to accumulate,
remain or exists thereon, covering or partly covering the surface of any lot or
parcel of real estate situated within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation, as the owner,
tenant or agent and/or both, of any premises to allow any pesticide, industrial
waste, sewage and/or other substance, liable to cause disease or produce,
harbor and spread disease germs of any nature, or tend to render the
surrounding atmosphere unhealthy, unsafe, unwholesome or obnoxious. Such
condition or act is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance, the prompt
abatement of which shall be a public necessity.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation as owner or
occupant of any lot or premises in the city to allow or permit the existence of
any palm tree or similar type tree on such premises when such tree is dead or
damaged and such condition poses a serious threat to property or life on such
premises or an adjacent lot of an adjacent public right-of-way and such
condition is hereby declared to be a nuisance in the city.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-22-2008) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.37 DUTY TO CUT OR REMOVE.
   (A)   It shall be the primary duty of the owner of any premises within the
city to cut and remove all weeds, trash and brush as often as may be necessary
to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful on any premises for any person, as the
owner, tenant or agent(s), including commercial maintenance firms and
landscapes or any combination thereof, within the city, to leave any unsightly
piles, windrows of debris or weeds, grass or brush which could serve as habitat
for rodents, snakes or other vectors of disease on such premises after the same
has been cut from the premises.
      (2)   Any such grass, weeds or brush so cut shall be removed and or
hauled from said premises promptly and be disposed of in an appropriate manner.
If the brush is to be burned, such burning shall be done under the supervision
of and with the permission of the Fire Marshal of the city. Commercial
maintenance firms and landscapes shall be liable and responsible for all such
material as caused by their business.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-22-2008) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.38 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer, City Health Officer or any other
appropriate city official shall, after proper notification, shall have the
right and authority to go onto any premises with the city at any reasonable
time for the purpose of making inspections to ascertain if the premises are
free from weeds, trash, rubbish or other noxious or unhealthy matter, it shall
be unlawful for any person to prevent such official from making such
inspections or to interfere therewith in any manner.
   (B)   If any person shall refuse to allow the city official to enter onto
any property in the city for the purposes of conducting the inspection as
provided herein, the city official shall make application to the Municipal
Judge for an administrative search warrant to be issued by the Judge. Such
application shall contain an affidavit from that city official stating the
reason for entry upon the premises and shall also state the time and general
condition for entry. The Municipal Court Judge for the city is hereby
authorized to issue administrative search warrants to allow the Code
Enforcement Offices, City Health Officer or any other appropriate city official
to enter any premises with the city under the terms and conditions as deemed by
the Municipal Court Judge. The Judge may also request that the Chief of Police
furnish police officers of the city to assist in the enforcement of any warrant
issued under the provisions of this section. It shall be unlawful for any
person having control of any premises for which an administrative search
warrant has been issued to prohibit the entry onto the premises by the persons
as authorized under the administrative search warrant.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-22-2008) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever and wherever weeds, rubbish, burned hulls or any other
objectionable, unsightly and unsanitary matter of whatever nature, covering or
partly covering the surface of any lot or parcel of real estate within the city
shall exist, or from any other cause shall be in such condition as to be liable
to cause disease or produce, harbor or spread disease germs of any nature, or
tend to render the surrounding atmosphere unhealthy or unwholesome or
obnoxious, such condition is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance,
the prompt abatement of which shall be deemed a public necessity.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared a public nuisance for
any person, including the owner, tenant or a representative of any non-resident
owner, of any lot(s) or parcel(s) of real estate or part thereof, or any other
premises where vacant or occupied with the city to allow all rank and
uncultivated vegetation or brush to flourish.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-22-2008) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.40 WEEDY LOTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared to be a public nuisance
for any person, including owner, tenant or representative of any non-resident
owner or tenant of any lot, parcel of real estate, or any other premises or
parts thereof, including adjacent sidewalks, whether vacant or occupied within
the city to allow grass, weeds or brash of any description to grow or flourish
thereon without having the same cut and kept short at all time for a height not
to exceed 12 inches from the surface of the ground, in a fully-developed
subdivision. Subdivisions developed with less than 50% occupancy shall have a
maximum height of 24 inches. Any agricultural lot not cultivated or left
dormant within one year shall not contain weeds exceeding 36 inches in height
from the surface of the ground.
   (B)   Lots owned by governmental entities shall follow all definitions,
limitations and penalties, unless so approved by the Code Enforcement Officer,
but in no case shall exceed 18 inches.
   (C)   Lots with 25 or less acres within the city shall not be deemed as a
preservation park for any wildlife (i.e., bird sanctuary), unless so deemed by
appropriate state or federal agencies.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-22-2008) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 NOTICE TO ABATE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the existence of any nuisance, as herein defined, on
any lot or parcel of real estate of property situated in the city shall come to
the knowledge of the Code Enforcement Officer, it shall be duty of said city
official to cause a written notice to be issued forthwith to the person owning
or having possession or control of same, identifying such property and
requiring said person to abate such nuisance by removing said weeds, brush,
burned hulls, rubbish or other objectionable, unsightly, unhealthy, unsafe or
unsanitary matter or whatever nature, as the case may be.
      (2)   The notice provided herein shall be in writing and either served
personally or sent through the U.S. mail addressed to the owner of said lot,
property or parcel of real estate, at his or her last known address, if said
letter is returned unclaimed, or personal service has not be had, or if the
owner’s address cannot be ascertained, the notice shall be published two times
within ten consecutive days in the newspaper of general circulation with the
city.
   (B)   (1)   The notice to the owner, tenant or to the person owning or
having possession and control of a lot, property or parcel of real estate,
where a public nuisance has been found to exist, shall contain the following
items:
         (a)   A statement identifying said property;
         (b)   A statement requiring the abatement of such nuisance within ten
days from the date of such notice;
         (c)   A statement notifying said person that they can appeal the
determination of a public nuisance made by the Code Enforcement Officer with
the City Manager within ten days from the date of such notice;
         (d)   A statement notifying said owner that if said public nuisance is
not abated, nor an appeal with the City Manager is requested, within the ten-
day period, the city will, after the expiration of the 14 days:
            1.   Cause, at once, the same to be done and charge the owner with
the costs and expenses incurred in doing or having such work done; and/or
            2.   File a complaint regarding notice of violation of said
ordinance with the Municipal Court in the city.
      (2)   If the owner of the lot, property or parcel of real estate is a
governmental entity, said governmental entity shall have 30 days to abate such
nuisance; and, if such is not abated, a complaint will be presented to the
Municipal Court Judge.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-22-2008)
§ 91.42 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Filing in Municipal Court. In the event the owner, tenant or agent
fails or refuses to abate a nuisance within the time required in this
subchapter as here before stated, and failed to request a hearing with the City
Manager, and the city has chosen not to abate the nuisance itself the city
shall immediately file a complaint with the Municipal Court, with each day that
said nuisance exists to be considered a separate offense and subject to the
penalties and processes as by the Municipal Court of the city. Said owner,
tenant or agent may be served with citation in person or by certified mail.
   (B)   Abatement by city after ten days.
      (1)   In the event the owner fails or refuses to a abate a nuisance, and
fails to request a hearing with the City Manager, within the time required in
this subchapter, the city may, at its option, elect to cause said nuisance to
be abated at its expense. When the same is done, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall compile the cost of such work done or improvements made in abating such
nuisance and shall provide such list to the Finance Director.
      (2)   Such expenses and costs incurred shall include salaries and wages
of employees, reasonable charges for machinery, tools and vehicles, reasonable
costs incurred in mailing, locating the owner, issuing notice including the
publishing of notice to owner of nuisance, or re-inspecting of said nuisance,
and all other reasonable costs incurred in abating such nuisance, including all
court costs and legal fees, if incurred.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-22-2008)
§ 91.43 BILLING FOR SERVICES RENDERED; COSTS; COLLECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   When any work is done or improvements made by the city under the
provisions herein stated, the Finance Director shall provide a bill to said
property owner, at his or her last known address, listing the following:
         (a)   Description of property sufficient to identify same, and where
property has been subdivided, a description by lot and block number of any
particular subdivision shall be sufficient;
         (b)   Statement of the particular violation;
         (c)   Services or improvements rendered by the city or anyone
authorized by the city;
         (d)   All costs and expenses incurred in having such work done for
such abatement of said nuisance;
         (e)   That payment is due and payable within 30 days of notice data of
rendered services; and
         (f)   Penalties which may be imposed for non-payment.
      (2)   A copy of such billing shall be filed with the Code Enforcement
Officer and Finance Director.
      (3)   The city’s Finance Department shall be responsible for the
collection of all moneys due resulting from the abatement or improvement of any
nuisance.
      (4)   Any moneys received shall be receipted by the Finance Department
Director, or one of his or her designees. Such moneys shall be deposited into
the city’s General Fund. The Finance Director shall then provide an official
receipt to that person who has made payment and to the Code Enforcement
Officer. Receipts, necessary records, collection of moneys and all such
documents for permanent record shall be the responsibility of the Finance
Director.
   (B)   Whenever the city has performed any abatement or improvements for any
nuisance, and due moneys have not been received after the 30-day period, the
Finance Director or his or her designee shall inform by letter the Municipal
Court to initiate legal proceedings for those persons residing with the city
limits. For property owners residing outside the city limits, the Finance
Director shall inform the City Secretary, who shall then have a lien placed
upon such property, lost or parcel of real estate.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-22-2008)
§ 91.44 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
   The letter from the Finance Department to the Municipal Court shall contain:
   (A)   Name and address of owner, occupant or agent of owner of property, if
known, and, if unknown, recite the fact;
   (B)   Description of property sufficient to identify same, and where
property has been subdivided, a description by lot and block number of any
particular subdivision shall be sufficient;
   (C)   Statement of the particular violation of this subchapter;
   (D)   Statement including date that notice of violation was mailed or
published to owner as to failure to comply therewith;
   (E)   Itemized statement of the work done and date such work was performed,
together with costs thereof opposite each item;
   (F)   Statement of payment made by the city, the date of such payment and to
whom made if the work was contracted out to private commercial enterprises; and
   (G)   Statement that such affidavit is made for the purpose of fixing a lien
upon the property therein described.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-22-2008)
§ 91.45 LIENS.
   (A)   The City Secretary shall immediately prepare and file for record in
the office of the County Clerk, a lien to be placed upon such property, lot or
parcel of real estate, second only to tax liens and liens for street
improvements, to secure the expenditure so made with 10% interest on the amount
from the date of such payment, after the fixing of any such lien as aforesaid
for those property owners not residing with the city limits.
   (B)   The City Manager or his or her designated authorized agent is hereby
authorized to execute release liens on behalf of the city of all liens created
under the provisions of this subchapter. Said City Manager or his or her
designated authorized agent shall have no right to execute such releases until
he or she has satisfied himself or herself that the debt or portion thereof
secured by the lien and for which a release is requested has been paid in full
to the city and such lien shall be released only insofar as it affects the
property for which the debt secured thereby has been paid in full.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-22-2008)
§ 91.46 LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   The city shall be held harmless from any and all liabilities from any claim
(s) resulting from the abatement or the failure to abate a nuisance on any
property, including, but not limited to, acts and destruction of shrubs,
flowers, brush and small trees of any type. The city has no duty, nor does this
subchapter impose any duty, on the Code Enforcement Officer or any other
employee to abate any nuisance existing on any private property. The provisions
of this subchapter neither change, nor modify, the responsibility of the owner
or occupant of any premises in the city to keep the premises in a reasonably
safe condition so as not to cause injury to third party either on the property
or adjacent to the property as provided for in the tort laws of the state. The
adoption of this subchapter does not, in any manner, change the responsibility
under the tort law, nor does it create a cause of action for liability not
heretofore existing under the ton or statutory laws of the state. A decision of
the city to abate a nuisance or not to abate a nuisance is solely discretionary
and any decision to abate a nuisance or not abate a nuisance shall not create
any liability on the city in any manner to any party.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-22-2008)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Fines, penalties and enforcement of §§
91.01 through
91.05 of this chapter shall be in accordance with §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
91.20 through
91.23 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not more than $500. Each day a
violation under §§
91.20 through
91.23 of this chapter continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person or corporation, or agent, servant, representative or
employee of such owner or corporation, including any person having ownership of
any premises, lot or parcel of real estate or any part thereof, or any interest
therein, or improvement thereon, situated within the city limits, on which
there is found to exist a nuisance, who shall permit any such nuisance to be
created or to remain and continue if created and established, or who shall
refuse, neglect to remove and or abate, or any person who violated any
provision of §§
91.35 through
91.46 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $1, nor more than $2,000, to include city
expenses for abatement of said nuisance and any court costs and which may
ultimately lead to an issuance of a warrant of arrest for the refusal of
abatement of nuisance or payment of said expenses/costs. Every day shall
constitute a difference and separate offense. Each new violation hereof shall
be fined in an escalated manner.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-22-2008; Ord. 2013-03, passed 1-15-2013; Ord. 2014-17,
passed 10-27-2014)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Officers designated
   
92.04   Initial notice
   
92.05   Storage fees
   
92.06   Use of certain abandoned motor vehicles
   
92.07   Unclaimed vehicles to be sold; auction or use by city; proceeds
   
92.08   Garage keepers and abandoned motor vehicles
   
92.09   Reconstruction of junked vehicles
   
92.10   Public hearing
   
92.11   Filing of complaint; order of court
   
92.12   Processing as scrap or salvage; use of proceeds
   
92.13   Junked vehicles declared a public nuisance
   
92.14   Notice by Code Enforcement Officer
   
92.15   Effect on other statutes
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as the “Junked and Abandoned Motor Vehicles
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicles that is inoperable and more than
five years old and is left unattended on public property for more than 48
hours, or a motor vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for a
period of more than 48 hours, or a motor vehicle that has remained on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property
for more than 48 hours, or a motor vehicle left unattended on the rights-of-way
of any designated county, state or federal highway within the state for more
than 48 hours, or any other city, street, alley or other city right-of-way,
within the city limits in excess of 48 hours.
   ANTIQUE AUTO. A passenger car or truck that was manufactured in 1925 or
before, or a passenger car or truck that is at least 35 years old.
   COLLECTOR. The owner of one or more antique or special interest vehicles who
collects, purchases, acquires, trades or disposes of special interest or
antique vehicles or parts of them for personal use in order to restore,
preserve and maintain an antique or special interest vehicle for historic
interest.
   DEMOLISHER. A person whose business it is to convert a motor vehicle into
processed scrap or scrap metal or to otherwise wreck or dismantle a motor
vehicle.
   GARAGE KEEPER. An owner or operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle store facility or establishment for the servicing, repair or
maintenance of a motor vehicle.
   JUNKED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled and:
      (1)   Does not have lawfully attached to it:
         (a)   An unexpired license plate; or
         (b)   A valid motor vehicle inspection certificate.
      (2)   Is:
         (a)   Wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled or discarded; or
         (b)   Inoperable and has remained inoperable for more than:
            1.   Seventy-two consecutive hours, of the vehicle on public
property; or
            2.   Thirty consecutive days, of the vehicle is on private
property.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle subject to registration under the
Certificate of Title Act (Tex. Transportation Code §§ 501.001 et seq.) and
includes a motorboat, outboard motor or vessel subject to registration under
Tex. Parks and Wildlife Code §§ 31.001 et seq.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The city’s Police Department, and its duly authorized
employees, acting under the general police power authority as vested in such
department by its respective governing body.
   SPECIAL INTEREST VEHICLE. A motor vehicle of any age that has not been
altered or modified from original manufacturer’s specifications and, because of
its historic interest, is being preserved by hobbyists.
   STORAGE FACILITY. A garage, parking lot or any type of facility or
establishment for the servicing, repairing, storing or parking of motor
vehicles.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.03 OFFICERS DESIGNATED.
   The city’s Police Department may take into custody an abandoned motor
vehicle found on public or private property. The Police Department may employ
its own personnel, equipment and facilities or hire persons, equipment and
facilities to remove, preserve and store and abandoned motor vehicle it takes
into possession.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.04 INITIAL NOTICE.
   (A)   When the Police Department or agent of the Police Department takes
into custody an abandoned motor vehicle located within the city, it shall
notify, not later than the tenth day after taking the motor vehicle into
custody, by certified mail, to the last known registered owner of the motor
vehicle and all lien holders of record pursuant to the Certificate of Title Act
(Tex. Transportation Code §§ 501.001 et seq.) or Tex. Parks and Wildlife Code
§§ 31.001 et seq., that the vehicle has been taken into custody. The notice
shall describe the year, make, model and vehicle identification number of the
abandoned motor vehicle, set forth the location of the facility where the motor
vehicle is being held, inform the owner and any lien holders of their right to
reclaim the motor vehicle not later than the twentieth day after the date of
the notice, on payment of all towing, preservation and storage charges
resulting from placing the vehicle in custody, or garage keeper’s charges if
notice is made by a garage keeper. The notice shall also state that the failure
of the owner or lien holders to exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle
within the time provided constitutes a waiver by the owner and lien holders of
all right, title and interesting the vehicle and their consent to the sale of
the abandoned motor vehicle at a public auction.
   (B)   If the identity of the last registered owner cannot be determined, if
the registration contains no address for the owner, or if it is impossible to
determine with reasonable certainty the identity and addresses of all lien
holders, notice by one publication in one newspaper of general circulation in
the city is sufficient notice. The notice by publication may contain multiple
listings of abandoned vehicles, shall be published with the time requirements
prescribed for notice by certified mail and shall have the same contents
required for notice by certified mail.
   (C)   The consequences and effect of failure to reclaim an abandoned motor
vehicle are as set forth in a valid notice given under this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.05 STORAGE FEES.
   The Police Department or agent of the Police Department that takes custody
of an abandoned motor vehicle or junked vehicle is entitled to reasonable
storage fees for:
   (A)   A period of not more than ten days beginning on the day the Department
takes custody and continuing through the day the Department or Code Enforcement
Officer mails notice as provided in §
92.04 of this chapter; and
   (B)   A period beginning on the day after the day the Department or Code
Enforcement Officer mails notice and continuing through the day any accrued
charges are paid and the vehicle is removed.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.06 USE OF CERTAIN ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   If an abandoned motor vehicle is not reclaimed within the time period
provided in §
92.02 of this chapter, the Police Department or its agent may use that vehicle
for Police Department purposes as set out in this section.
   (B)   The Police Department may use the vehicle as long as the Department
considers it cost-effective. If the Police Department discontinues use of the
vehicle, it shall auction the vehicle as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   An abandoned motor vehicle with a garage keeper’s lien cannot be used
by the Police Department for its own purposes.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a police department located in a county
with a population of 2,400,000 or more according to the most recent federal
decennial census.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.07 UNCLAIMED VEHICLES TO BE SOLD; AUCTION OR USE BY CITY; PROCEEDS.
   (A)   If an abandoned motor vehicle, watercraft or outboard motor is not
claimed under §§
92.02 and
92.03 of this chapter, the owner or lien holder waives all rights and interest
in the item and consents to the sale of the item by public auction.
   (B)   If, after the expiration of 20 days provided in the notice under §§
92.02 and
92.03 of this chapter, such vehicle has not been reclaimed, the Police
Department may use that vehicle for Police Department purposes as provided in §
92.06 of this chapter or sell the vehicle at a public auction shall be given
and, in the case of a garage keeper’s lien, the garage keeper shall be notified
of the time and place of the auction. The purchaser of the motor vehicle takes
title to the motor vehicle free and clear of all liens and claims of ownership,
shall receive a sales receipt from the Police Department and is entitled to
register the purchased vehicle and receive a certificate of title.
   (C)   From the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor vehicle, the
Police Department shall reimburse itself for the expenses of the auction, the
costs of towing, preserving and storing the vehicle that resulted from placing
the abandoned motor vehicle or junked vehicle in custody, and all notice and
publication costs incurred. Any remainder from the proceeds of a sale shall be
held for the owner of the vehicle or entitled lien holder for 90 days and then
shall be deposited in a special fund that shall remain available for the
payment of auction, towing, preserving, storage and all notice and publication
costs that result from placing another abandoned motor vehicle or junked
vehicle in custody, if the proceeds from a sale of another abandoned motor
vehicle or junked vehicle are insufficient to meet these expenses and costs.
The city may transfer the amounts in the special funds that exceed $1,000 from
the special fund to the city’s General Revenue Account to be used by the city.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.08 GARAGE KEEPERS AND ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   A motor vehicle left for more than ten days in a storage facility
operated for commercial purposes after notice is given by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner and to any lien holder
of record under the Certificate of Title Act, being Tex. Transportation Code
Ch. 501 to pick up the vehicle, or for more than ten days after a period when
under a contract the vehicle was to remain on the premises of the storage
facility, or a motor vehicle left for more than ten days in a storage facility
by someone other than the registered owner or by a person authorized to have
possession of the motor vehicle under a contract of use, service, storage or
repair, is considered an abandoned vehicle, and shall be reported by the garage
keeper to the Police Department. If the notice to the owner or a lien holder is
returned by the post office unclaimed, notice by one publication in one
newspaper of general circulation in the area in which the vehicle was left in
storage is sufficient notice.
   (B)   If a garage keeper or storage facility acquired possession of a motor
vehicle for a purpose other than repair, the garage keeper or storage facility
is entitled to towing, preservation and notification charges and to reasonable
storage fees, in addition to storage fees earned pursuant to contract, for a
maximum of seven days only until notification is mailed to the last known
registered owner and all lien holders of record as provided by division (A)
above. After such notice is mailed, storage fees may continue until the vehicle
is removed and all accrued charges are paid. A garage keeper who fails to
report the possession of an abandoned vehicle to the Police Department within
seven days after it becomes abandoned may no longer claim reimbursement for
storage of the vehicle.
   (C)   The Police Department, upon receipt of a report from a garage keeper
of the possession of a vehicle considered abandoned under the public right-of-
way, that the nuisance must be removed and abated within ten days, and that a
request for a hearing must be made before expiration of the ten-day period. The
notice must be mailed, by certified mail with a five-day return requested, to
the last known registered owner of the junked vehicle, any lien holder of
record and the owner or occupant of the public premises or to the owner or
occupant of the premises adjacent to the public right-of-way on which the
public nuisance exists. If the post office address of the last known registered
owner of the nuisance is unknown, notice maybe placed on the nuisance or, if
the owner is located, personally delivered. If the notice is returned
undelivered by the United States Post Office, official action to abate the
nuisance shall be continued to a date not earlier than the eleventh day after
the date of the return.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.09 RECONSTRUCTION OF JUNKED VEHICLES.
   The junked vehicle cannot be reconstructed or made operable after it has
been removed by the city.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.10 PUBLIC HEARING.
   If, within ten days after service of notice to abate the nuisance, a hearing
is requested by the owner or occupant of the public or private premises or by
the owner or occupant of the premises adjacent to the public right-of-way on
which the vehicle is located, a public hearing before the removal of the junked
vehicle or vehicle part must be held before any board, commission or official
of the city, as designated by the City Council. A resolution or under requiring
the removal of a vehicle or vehicle part must include a description of the
vehicle and the correct identification number and license number of the vehicle
if the information is available.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.11 FILING OF COMPLAINT; ORDER OF COURT.
   Any time not earlier than the eleventh day after notice has been served, if
a hearing has not been requested, or if a hearing is requested, any time not
earlier than the eleventh day after an order requiring the removal of such
junked vehicle has been issued, then the City Prosecutor may, if such nuisance
has not been abated, file a complaint concerning the public nuisance in the
Municipal Court to have it abated. At the hearing, the junked motor vehicle is
presumed, unless demonstrated otherwise by the owner, to be inoperable. After
consideration of the facts, the court may order the junked vehicle or part of
portions thereof, which was the subject of the notice to a storage area
designated by the city. If the information is available at the location of the
nuisance, a resolution or order requiring removal of the nuisance, a resolution
or order requiring removal of the nuisance must include the vehicles
description, vehicle identification number and license plate number. The
vehicle or part thereof shall be stored in such area for a period of not less
than ten days, during which period any party owning or claiming any right,
title or interest therein, shall be entitled to claim possession of same by
payment to the city of the actual cost of the city in abating such nuisance.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.12 PROCESSING AS SCRAP OR SALVAGE; USE OF PROCEEDS.
   (A)   (1)   When a junked vehicle has been removed to a scrap yard,
demolisher or any suitable site operated by the city for processing as scrap or
salvage under §
92.03 of this chapter, the Code Enforcement Officer shall cause the junked
vehicle or part thereof to be disposed of by removal to a scrap yard or by sale
to a demolisher for the highest bid or offer. The fee shall be used to
reimburse the city for the cost of removal and storage and demolition of this
section shall follow the notification procedures provided by §§
92.02 and
92.03 of this chapter; except that, custody of the vehicle shall remain with
the garage keeper until after compliance with the notification requirements.
      (2)   A fee of $5 shall accompany the report of the garage keeper to the
Police Department. The $5 fee shall be retained by the Police Department
receiving the report and used to defray the cost of notification or other cost
incurred in the disposition of an abandoned motor vehicle.
   (B)   An abandoned vehicle left in a storage facility and not reclaimed
after notice is sent in the manner provided by §§
92.02 and
92.03 of this chapter shall be taken into custody by the Police Department and
used for Police Department purposes as provided by §
92.04 of this chapter or sold in the manner provided by §
92.07(A) of this chapter. The proceeds of a sale under this division (B) shall
first be applied to the garage keeper’s charges for servicing, storage and
repair, but as compensation for the expense incurred by the Police Department
in placing the vehicle in custody and the expense of auction, the Police
Department shall retain 2% of the gross proceeds of the sale of each vehicle
auctioned, unless the gross proceeds are less than $10. If the gross proceeds
are less than $10, the Department shall retain the $10 to defray expenses of
custody and auction.
   (C)   Except for the termination or limitation of claim for storage for
failure to report an abandoned motor vehicle, nothing in this chapter may be
construed to impair any lien of a garage keeper under the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.13 JUNKED VEHICLES DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   A junked vehicle that is located in a place where it is visible from a
public place or public right-of-way is detrimental to the safety and welfare of
the general public, tends to reduce the value of private property, invites
vandalism, creates fire hazards, constitutes a public nuisance creating a
hazard to the health and safely of minors and is detrimental to the economic
welfare of the city by producing urban blight adverse to the maintenance and
continuing developments of the city, and is a public nuisance.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if that person maintains a public nuisance
as determined under this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.14 NOTICE BY CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The procedures for abatement and removal of a junked vehicle or apart
of a junked vehicle or apart of a junked vehicle as a public nuisance, from
private property, public property or public rights-of- way are as follows.
      (1)   For a nuisance on private property, the Code Enforcement Officer
for the city shall send a notice stating the nature of the public nuisance on
private property, that it must be removed and abated within ten days and that a
request for a hearing must be made before the expiration of the ten-day period.
The notice must be mailed, by certified mail with a five-day return requested,
to the last known registered owner of the junked motor vehicle, any lien holder
of record and the owner or occupant of the private premises on which the public
nuisance exists. If the post office address of the last known registered owner
of the nuisance is unknown, notice may be placed on the nuisance or, if the
owner is located, personally delivered. If the notice is returned undelivered
by the United States Post Office, official action to abate the nuisance shall
be continued to a date nor earlier than the eleventh day after the date of the
return.
      (2)   For a nuisance on public property, the Code Enforcement Officer for
the city shall send a notice stating the nature of the public nuisance so
public property and vehicles may enter private property for the purposes
specified in the procedures to examine a vehicle or vehicle part, obtain
information as to the identity of the vehicle and remove or cause the removal
of a vehicle or vehicle part that constitutes a nuisance.
   (B)   The Municipal Court may issue orders necessary to enforce the
procedures set out in this section.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.15 EFFECT ON OTHER STATUTES.
   This chapter does not affect a law authorizing the immediate removal, as an
obstruction to traffic, of a vehicle left on public property.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   A person who commits an offense under §
92.13 of this chapter is, on conviction, subject to a fine not to exceed $200.
On conviction, the Municipal Court shall order removal and abatement of the
nuisance.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 7-18-2006)
CHAPTER 93: SMOKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Application to city-owned facilities
   
93.03   Smoking prohibited in public places
   
93.04   Smoking prohibited in places of employment
   
93.05   Distribution, display and sale of tobacco products and cigarette
machines
   
93.06   Smoking prohibited in outdoor areas
   
93.07   Where smoking not regulated
   
93.08   Persons under age 18 in smoking areas
   
93.09   Declaration of establishment as non-smoking
   
93.10   Posting signs
   
93.11   Retaliation prohibited
   
93.12   Enforcement; fees
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAR. An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages, including, but not
limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges and cabarets.
   BUSINESS. A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation or
other business entity formed for profit-making purposes, including retail
establishments where goods or services are sold, as well as professional
corporations and other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering,
architectural or other professional services are delivered.
   CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINE. Any self-service device which, upon insertion of
coin(s), paper currency, token(s), card(s) or key(s) or any other item(s)
dispenses one or more cigarettes, as defined above; provided that, the term
shall neither be deemed to include any machine that is in storage, in transit
or otherwise not set up for use and operation, nor be deemed to include any
machine that is situated on a train, bus or other public conveyance.
   COMEDY CLUB. An establishment that is primarily used for live comedic
entertainment.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, and a person who volunteers his or
her services for a non-profit entity.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust or non-profit entity that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded on at
least two sides by walls, doorways or windows, whether open or closed. A “wall”
includes any retractable divider, garage door or other physical barrier,
whether temporary or permanent and whether or not containing openings of any
kind.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of diseases, whether physical, mental or emotional, or other medical,
physiological or psychological conditions, including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, including weight control
clinics, nursing homes, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories
and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians,
dentists and all specialists within these professions. This definition shall
include all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semi-private rooms and
wards within HEALTH CARE FACILITIES.
   PARK. Includes neighborhood/community/large urban/natural area and green
ways/sports complex parks that are the basic unit of a park system and are
recreational and social centers for those living in the nearby service area or
from several neighborhoods and possibly may serve a broader community- based
recreation need. PARKS include areas that preserve unique landscapes and open
spaces and include features that emphasize harmony with the natural
environment. PARKS include areas that accommodate group activities and
recreational facilities, consolidated programmed athletic fields and their
associated facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees normally frequent during the course of employment,
including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways and
vehicles. A private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT unless it is used as
a child care, adult day care or health care facility.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which:
      (1)   Is the owner, lessee or occupant of a building or portion thereof
used exclusively for club purposes at all times;
      (2)   Is operated solely for a fraternal purpose, but not for pecuniary
gain;
      (3)   Only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation;
      (4)   Conducts its affairs and management through a board of directors,
executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at an annual meeting;
      (5)   Has established bylaws or a constitution to govern its activities;
and
      (6)   Has been granted an exemption from the payment of federal income
tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. § 501.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including, but not limited to, banks, bars, bingo
facilities, educational facilities, gaming facilities, health care facilities,
hotels and motels, laundromats, public transportation facilities, reception
areas, restaurants, retail food production and marketing establishments, retail
service establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, sports arenas, theaters
and waiting rooms. A private residence is not a PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used
as a child care, adult day care or health care facility.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including, but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests or employees, as well
as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the premises
for serving elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall include a bar area within the
restaurant.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products, smoking implements or smoking accessories for on-premises
consumption and in which the sale of other products is merely incidental, which
shall include, but not be limited to, hookah lounges, cigar bars and humidors.
In this definition, “primarily” means that the sale of tobacco products,
smoking implements or smoking accessories shall be at least 65% of the total
sales revenues.
   SHOPPING MALL. An enclosed public walkway or hall area that serves to
connect retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKE. The gases, particles or vapors released into the air as a result of
combustion, electrical ignition or vaporization, including from an electronic
smoking device, when the purpose of the combustion, electrical ignition or
vaporization is human inhalation of the gases, particles or vapors. SMOKE does
not mean the combustion of material solely for olfactory purposes that does not
contain any tobacco or nicotine.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, including electronic cigarette, pipe or any other lighted or
heated tobacco, nicotine or plant product intended for inhalation, in any
manner or in any form, including vaping.
   SPORTS ARENA. Sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing
arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys and other similar
places where members of the general public assemble to engage in physical
exercise, participate in athletic competition or witness sports or other
events.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 93.02 APPLICATION TO CITY-OWNED FACILITIES.
   All enclosed facilities, including buildings and vehicles owned, leased or
operated by the city, shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 93.03 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places within the city,
including, but not limited to, the following places:
   (A)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries and museums;
   (B)   Areas available to and customarily used by the general public in
businesses and non-profit entities patronized by the public, including, but not
limited to, professional offices, banks, laundromats, hotels and motels;
   (C)   Bars;
   (D)   Billiard halls;
   (E)   Bingo facilities;
   (F)   Comedy clubs;
   (G)   Convention/civic center facilities;
   (H)   Elevators;
   (I)   Facilities primarily used for exhibiting a motion picture, stage,
drama, lecture, musical recital or other similar performance;
   (J)   Gaming facilities;
   (K)   Health care facilities;
   (L)   Childcare and adult day care facilities;
   (M)   Lobbies, hallways and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes and other
multiple-unit residential facilities;
   (N)   Polling places;
   (O)   Public transportation facilities, including buses and taxicabs, and
ticket, boarding and waiting areas of public transit depots;
   (P)   Restaurants;
   (Q)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways and other common use
areas;
   (R)   Retail stores;
   (S)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including
school buildings, under the control of an agency, board, commission, committee
or council of the city or a political subdivision of the state when a public
meeting is in progress, to the extent the place is subject to the jurisdiction
of the city;
   (T)   Shopping malls; and
   (U)   Sports arenas, including enclosed areas in outdoor arenas.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed areas within places of
employment. This includes common work areas, auditoriums, classrooms,
conference and meeting rooms, elevators, hallways, medical facilities,
cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs, restrooms and all other enclosed areas.
   (B)   This prohibition on smoking shall be communicated by employers to all
existing employees by effective date of this chapter and to all prospective
employees upon their application for employment.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DISTRIBUTION, DISPLAY AND SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND CIGARETTE
MACHINES.
   (A)   Distribution, display and sale of smoking tobacco products or smoking
paraphernalia on any public right-of-way, city park or any city-owned building
or facility is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to the defenses provided in division (B)(2) below, it
shall be unlawful for any business owner, manager and employee in control of
cigarette vending machines within the city to intentionally, knowingly,
recklessly or with criminal negligence allow the display or use of any
cigarette vending machine upon any property within the city.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under the provisions of this
division (B) that:
         (a)   The cigarette vending machine is situated in a premises where
entry by any person under 18 years of age is prohibited by law; or
         (b)   The cigarette vending machine is located in a workplace with the
permission of the employer; provided that, the employer has no persons under
the age of 18 years employed at the workplace; and, further provided that, the
cigarette vending machine is situated at a location within the workplace to
which persons other than those employed at the workplace are not permitted to
have access.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN OUTDOOR AREAS.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in the following outdoor places:
   (A)   Within a reasonable distance of 25 feet outside entrances, operable
windows and ventilation system of enclosed areas, where smoking is prohibited
so as to ensure tobacco smoke does not enter those areas;
   (B)   Zoo facilities and grounds;
   (C)   In, and within 25 feet of, all outdoor sports arenas, stadiums and
amphitheaters;
   (D)   In, and within 25 feet of, all outdoor public transportation stations,
platforms and shelters under the authority of the city;
   (E)   In, and within 25 feet of, all pavilions and playgrounds located
within city-owned parks; and
   (F)   In, and within 25 feet of the library courtyard.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 WHERE SMOKING NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
93.02,
93.03 and
93.04 of this chapter:
   (A)   Outdoor areas, except those listed specifically in the provisions in §
93.06 of this chapter;
   (B)   Outdoor seating areas of restaurants and bars designated as smoking
areas in accordance with §
93.10(D) of this chapter;
   (C)   Private residences, except if used as a child care, adult day care or
health care facility;
   (D)   Retail tobacco stores; provided, however, that, smoke from these
places does not infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the
provisions of this chapter; and
   (E)   Tobacco product manufacturing facilities.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 93.08 PERSONS UNDER AGE 18 IN SMOKING AREAS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, persons under the age
of 18 years may be admitted in establishments, facilities or other areas that
allow smoking in accordance with the provisions of this chapter if such persons
are accompanied by their parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 93.09 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NON-SMOKING.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an owner,
operator, manager or other person in control of an establishment, facility or
outdoor area may declare that entire establishment, facility or outdoor area as
a non-smoking place.
   (B)   Smoking shall be prohibited in any place in which a sign conforming to
the requirements of §
93.10(A) and (B) of this chapter is posted.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 POSTING SIGNS.
   (A)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this chapter, by the owner, operator, manager or other person in control of
that place.
   (B)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia shall be removed from any
area where smoking is prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator,
manager or other person having control of the area.
   (D)   Areas which are exempt from the provisions of §§
93.03 and
93.04 of this chapter shall post a standard sign at each entrance, to be
designated by the city informing potential patrons that the area allows smoking
and warning patrons of the negative health effects associated with secondhand
smoke.
   (E)   The city will provide the signs required under division (D) above to
the owners or operators required to comply with division (D) above at a
reasonable and appropriate cost.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 93.11 RETALIATION PROHIBITED.
   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner
retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer because
that employee, applicant or customer exercises any rights afforded by this
chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12 ENFORCEMENT; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The Police Department, Fire Department and Code Compliance
Division, in addition to any authority having jurisdiction to enforce city
ordinances, shall have authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter
may initiate enforcement with the Police Department.
      (3)   The Police Department, Fire Department and Code Compliance
Division, or their designees, shall, while an establishment is undergoing
otherwise mandated inspections, inspect for compliance with this chapter.
      (4)   An owner, manager, operator or employee of an establishment
regulated by this chapter shall inform persons violating this chapter of the
appropriate provisions thereof.
      (5)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an employee or
private citizen may bring legal action to enforce this chapter.
      (6)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
section, the Police Department, Fire Department, Code Compliance Division, or
their designees, or any person aggrieved by the failure of the owner, operator,
manager or other person in control of a public place or a place of employment
to comply with the provisions of this chapter may apply for injunctive relief
to enforce those provisions in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   A reasonable fee to cover staff costs associated with inspections and
program expenses may be charged by the city to the owner or operator of a
restaurant in order to establish that outdoor seating areas of restaurants
designated as smoking areas are so designated in accordance with §
93.10(D) of this chapter.
   (C)   The City Manager shall annually request other governmental and
educational agencies having facilities within the city to establish local
operating procedures in cooperation and compliance with this chapter. This
includes urging all federal, state, county and school district agencies to
update their existing smoking control regulations to be consistent with the
current health findings regarding secondhand smoke.
   (D)   This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking
where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, agent, employer or employee who
intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or with criminal negligence violates any
provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined an amount not more
than $200; provided, however, that, in the event a defendant has previously
been convicted under this chapter, such defendant shall be fined an amount not
more than $500 for a second conviction hereunder, and shall be fined an amount
not more than $2,000 for a third conviction hereunder and for each conviction
thereafter. Each day that a violation is committed or permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   A violation of §
93.05(B) of this chapter is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor crime, and upon
conviction, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $2,000.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-4-2017)
CHAPTER 94: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
94.01   Permit required
   
94.02   Fees
   
94.03   Permit registration; cancellation
§ 94.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person/business operates or causes
to be operated an alarm system without a valid permit. A separate permit is
required for each site.
   (B)   All permits are renewed January 1 and expire December 31. Only pro-
rated fees will be charged to permit holders whose operational date is
confirmed with the alarm company as being effective after June 1.
   (C)   (1)   Any alarm cancellations must be made in writing to the Alarms
Division of the city’s Police Department to effectively cancel a permit.
      (2)   Failing to cancel an alarm permit may result in the accumulation of
alarm fees/penalties.
      (3)   Permits can not be transferred to another permit holder.
      (4)   Any changes must be notified to the Permit Office.
   (D)   (1)   The permit holder will be fined a fee of $50 per false alarm
after the fifth false alarm per calendar year.
      (2)   No service fee will apply for the first 60 days of a new permit
holder.
      (3)   One shall make the check/money order payable to the “City of
Palmview”; one shall not send cash. Payments may be taken at the Permits Office
window (400 W. Veteran’s Boulevard, Palmview, TX).
(Ord. 2013-12, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 FEES.
 
Alarm Permits Fee Schedule
Permit Type Description                         Fee
A           Monitored by alarm company          $25
B           Not monitored by alarm company      $50
            (audible)
Renewal     Annual permit renewal               $25/calendar year
Pro-rate    Operational date after July of      $12.50 (renewal fee reinstated
            calendar year                       January 1 of following year)
False       Alarms exceeding 5 false alarms per $50 each false alarm
            calendar year
 
(Ord. 2013-12, passed - -2013)
§ 94.03 PERMIT REGISTRATION; CANCELLATION.
   (A)   One shall submit a completed form by fax to (956) 581-7494 or in
person to:
   City of Palmview
   Permits Office
   400 W. Veterans Boulevard
   Palmview, TX 78572
   (B)   Copies of false alarm logs are available upon written request. One
shall submit written request to the city’s Police Department via mail, fax or
in person. All requests will be replied in writing. If a person has additional
questions, he or she shall contact the Permits Office at (956) 432-0300.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed - -2013)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   RESERVED
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   WRECKER BUSINESSES
      
113.   FIREWORKS SALES AND DISPLAYS
      
114.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS; MOBILE FOOD UNITS
      
115.   GARAGE SALES
      
116.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
117.   PEDDLERS AND MARKETS
CHAPTER 110: RESERVED
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Restriction on sale or use
   
111.02   Minimum distance from certain uses
   
111.03   Waiver of minimum distances
   
111.04   Notice of application for waiver
   
111.05   Exceptions to required minimum distances
   
111.06   Inspection and certification
§ 111.01 RESTRICTION ON SALE OR USE.
   A person commits an offense if the person sells, stores, handles for the
purpose of sale an alcoholic beverage unless the use is authorized by and
complies with the applicable provisions of this city code and the state’s
Alcoholic Beverage Code.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 2-2-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 MINIMUM DISTANCE FROM CERTAIN USES.
   (A)   A person may not sell or engage in the business of selling an
alcoholic beverage at a place of business located within 300 feet of a church,
public school or public hospital, except as provided by the state’s Alcoholic
Beverage Code.
   (B)   A permit or license holder under Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code Ch. 25
(Wine and Beer Retailer’s Permit), 28 (Mixed Beverage Permit), 32 (Private Club
Registration Permit), 69 (Retail Dealer’s On-Premises License) or 74 (Brewpub
License), who does not hold a food and beverage certificate, may not sell or
engage in the business of selling an alcoholic beverage at a place of business
located within 300 feet of a day care center or child care facility, except as
provided by the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Code.
   (C)   Distances under this section shall be calculated using the method
prescribed by the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Code.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 2-2-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 WAIVER OF MINIMUM DISTANCES.
   (A)   The Council may waive the prohibition in §
111.02 of this chapter if, after notice and a public hearing, the Council
determines that enforcement of the prohibition in a particular instance:
      (1)   Is not in the best interest of the public;
      (2)   Constitutes waste or the inefficient use of land or other
resources;
      (3)   Creates an undue hardship on an applicant;
      (4)   Does not serve its intended purpose;
      (5)   Is not effective or necessary; or
      (6)   For any other reason the Council, after consideration of the
health, safety and welfare of the public and the equities of the situation,
determines is in the best interest of the community.
   (B)   The Council may consider the written consent to a waiver under this
section from each church, public school, public hospital, day care center or
child care facility within 300 feet from the applicant’s proposed place of
business filed by the applicant with the Assistant City Manager to be a
sufficient justification for a waiver.
   (C)   To obtain a waiver under this section, an applicant must submit an
application to the Assistant City Manager that contains the information
required by the Assistant City Manager.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 2-2-2010)
§ 111.04 NOTICE OF APPLICATION FOR WAIVER.
   (A)   (1)   The Assistant City Manager shall distribute notice of an
application for a waiver under §
111.02 of this chapter by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
location in which the waiver is requested; and
         (b)   Mail, not fewer than 15 days before the date of the Council’s
public hearing under this section, to:
            1.   The applicant;
            2.   The record owner of real property located within 300 feet of
the proposed place of business;
            3.   A neighborhood organization on file with the city that has
requested notice of an application for the waiver under this chapter; and
            4.   Posting one to three signs in the location for which the
waiver is requested.
      (2)   A sign posted under division (A)(1)(b)4. above shall:
         (a)   Include the type of action pending, the file number and a
contact telephone number for additional information;
         (b)   Be visible from the street; and
         (c)   Be spaced not more than 200 feet apart, unless the street
frontage of the place of business requesting a waiver is less than 200 feet, in
which case, only one sign is required.
   (B)   An applicant may post the signs required under division (A)(1)(b)4.
above. If the applicant assumes responsibility for posting the signs required
under division (A) above, the applicant must:
      (1)   Verify placement of the signs in writing to the Director; and
      (2)   Respond to complaints regarding the signs to the Director within 24
hours.
   (C)   A person may not remove a sign posted by the Assistant City Manager
under this section before the earliest date Council action may be taken on the
application.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 2-2-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 EXCEPTIONS TO REQUIRED MINIMUM DISTANCES.
   (A)   Minimum distances from certain uses does not apply to:
      (1)   The renewal or transfer of a permit or license to sell alcoholic
beverages, if the permit or license being renewed or transferred was originally
issued before the date a church, public school, public hospital, day care
center or child care facility use was established within 300 feet from the
place of business named in the permit or license; or
      (2)   A new application at a location, if the sale of alcoholic beverages
at the proposed place of business was authorized not less than one year before
the date a church, public school, public hospital, day care center or child
care facility use was established within 300 feet from the place of business,
and the new application is filed no later than 90 days after the date the
previous permit or license authorizing the sale of alcoholic beverages at that
location expired or was terminated.
   (B)   Minimum distances from certain uses does not apply to a permit or
license holder who sells alcoholic beverages if:
      (1)   The permit or license holder’s place of business and the day care
center or child care facility are located on different stories of a multi-story
building; or
      (2)   The permit or license holder’s place of business and the day care
center or child care facility are located in separate buildings and either the
permit or license holder’s place of business or the day care center or child
care facility is located on the second story or higher of a multi-story
building.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 2-2-2010)
§ 111.06 INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   This section applies to:
      (1)   An original application or a renewal application for a permit or
license required by the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Code; and
      (2)   A permittee seeking to change the place of business for which a
permit or license is issued, if the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Code requires
the City Clerk to certify that the sale of alcoholic beverages at a place of
business is authorized by city ordinance.
   (B)   The applicant for a permit or license subject to this section shall
file a completed and verified application with the City Clerk on the form
promulgated by the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Commission.
   (C)   An applicant shall make the place of business available for any
investigation or inspection required by this section.
   (D)   Inspections under this section may relate to requirements established
by any provisions of any relevant city code and or ordinance.
   (E)   The Assistant City Manager, Fire Chief and the Police Chief shall
review an application and certify the application through the city’s automated
application process.
   (F)   The Assistant City Manager shall certify an application if the
Director determines that:
      (1)   The sale of alcoholic beverages at the place of business is an
authorized use at that location; and
      (2)   The place of business complies with all applicable provisions of
the City Charter.
   (G)   The City Inspector shall certify an application if the City Inspector
determines that the place of business complies with the provisions of the City
Charter.
   (H)   The Fire Chief shall certify an application if the Fire Chief
determines that the place of business complies with applicable city ordinances
and any other applicable law.
   (I)   The Police Chief shall investigate the applicant’s moral character and
police or criminal record. The Police Chief may require the applicant to
provide a classifiable set of the applicant’s fingerprints as part of the
investigation under this division (I). The Police Chief shall report the
Chief’s findings through the automated application process.
   (J)   Except as provided in division (K) below, each city official required
to review an application under division (E) above shall conduct an
investigation and inspection as necessary to make the determinations required
under this section.
   (K)   A city official reviewing application under division (E) above may
certify an application under this chapter without reinspecting a place of
business if:
      (1)   The place of business was inspected by the city department over
which the official is responsible in the 12 months preceding the date an
application was filed; and
      (2)   The official determines there has been no material change that
affects the certification required by this section since the previous
inspection.
   (L)   The city officials reviewing an application under division (E) above
may report an interim certification if the official’s department is unable to
provide the required certification because a structure or remodeling of a
structure at the proposed place of business is incomplete.
   (M)   After the City Clerk receives the certifications required by this
section, the Clerk shall certify on the application that:
      (1)   The place of business is in a “wet” area and if the business is in
a “late hours” area; and
      (2)   The sale of alcoholic beverages is not prohibited at the place of
business by the City Charter or the City Council.
   (N)   If requested by the applicant, the Clerk shall certify an application
based on interim certifications; provided that, the place of business subject
to the application may not be occupied and the business may not be operated
until the applicant obtains a certificate of occupancy and food permit from the
city.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 2-2-2010)
CHAPTER 112: WRECKER BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Purpose
   
112.03   Summoned by Police or Fire Department
   
112.04   Soliciting business at accident scene prohibited
   
112.05   Intercepting communications from Police or Fire Department radio
   
112.06   Selection of wrecker by vehicle owner
   
112.07   Rotation list; placement; use
   
112.08   Police officers not to recommend wrecker service
   
112.09   Maximum rates for wreckers on rotation list
   
112.10   Safety precautions and operation procedures; compliance
   
112.11   Unauthorized removal of vehicles
   
112.12   Non-consent towing
Permits and Certificates
   
112.25   Permit and certificate; application
   
112.26   Standards for issuance; fees
   
112.27   Requirements for operating wrecker
   
112.28   Grounds for suspension or revocation of permit
   
112.29   Permit suspension or revocation procedure
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   OWNER. Any person who holds the legal title of a motor vehicle, who has the
legal right of possession of a motor vehicle or who has the legal right to such
vehicle.
   VEHICLE. Every device in or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved only by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and includes, but is
not limited to, trailers and semi-trailers.
   WRECKER. Any motor vehicle used for the purpose of towing or removing
disabled or wrecked vehicles.
   WRECKER BUSINESS. The business of towing or removing vehicles on the public
streets when the towing is done to remove a wrecked or disabled vehicle from
the scene of a collision at the instance or request of the owner of the vehicle
or the Police Department or Fire Department, regardless of whether the purpose
of the towing is to remove, repair, wreck, store, trade or purchase such
vehicle, or to remove a vehicle from an unlawfully parked position at the
instance or request of the Police or Fire Department.
   WRECKER COMPANY. Any person or company engaged in the wrecker business.
   WRECKER ROTATION LIST. The rotation list of companies prepared and used as
provided in §
112.06.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE.
   The operation of emergency wreckers and emergency wrecker service in the
city requires regulation in order to avoid competitive speeding by wreckers to
the scene of accidents and collisions, and is necessary in order to avoid
traffic hazards and to minimize the danger of injury to persons and damage to
property.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 112.03 SUMMONED BY POLICE OR FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   No person shall drive a wrecker to or within 100 feet of the scene or
sites of an accident or collision on the streets of the city unless such person
has been called to the scene by the Police Department or Fire Department;
provided that, when it is necessary to prevent death or bodily injury to any
person involved in an accident or collision, the prohibition of this section
shall be applicable. The owner or operator of a wrecker shall not use or act
upon any information received on the shortwave frequency of the Police or Fire
Department of the city for his or her own benefit or the benefit of any other
persons in connection with the operation of a wrecker business unless such
owner or operator was called or summoned by the Fire or Police Department. If
any wrecker appears at the scene of the accident or collision, the owner or
operator of which was not specifically called by the Fire or Police Department,
it shall be conclusively presumed that such owner or operator unlawfully
intercepted and acted on the information transmitted by the Fire or Police
Department on their radio frequency.
   (B)   Wreckers summoned by the Police Department are subject to
cancellation. If cancelled, the wrecker company will be placed back on the
rotation list for another call. Wreckers summoned to calls where police have
not arrived will not hook up the vehicle until the police arrive. Fees for non-
hook ups will not be charged.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 SOLICITING BUSINESS AT ACCIDENT SCENE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall solicit in any manner, directly or indirectly, on the
streets of the city, the business of towing any vehicle which is wrecked or
disabled on a public street, regardless of whether the solicitation is for the
purpose of soliciting the business of towing, removing, repairing, wrecking,
storing, trading or purchasing such vehicle. Proof of the presence of any
person engaged in the wrecker business or the presence of any wrecker or motor
vehicle owned or operated by any person engaged in the wrecker business, either
as owner, operator, employee or agent, on any public street in the city at or
near the scene or sites of a wreck, accident or collision, within one hour
after the happening of a wreck, accident or collision, shall be prima facie
evidence of a solicitation in violation of this section.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 INTERCEPTING COMMUNICATIONS FROM POLICE OR FIRE DEPARTMENT RADIO.
   No owner of a wrecker company, not licensed by the city, shall intercept any
message emanating through the medium of the Fire or Police Department radio
frequency or divulge or publish the existence, contents, substance, purpose,
effect of meaning of such intercepted communication; and no person, not being
entitled thereto, shall receive or assist in receiving any such message and use
such message, or any information therein contained, for his or her own benefit
or for the benefit of another person.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 SELECTION OF WRECKER BY VEHICLE OWNER.
   Wrecker selection will only be from the wrecker rotation list. The owner
will select a wrecker company.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 112.07 ROTATION LIST; PLACEMENT; USE.
   (A)   If a vehicle is involved in an accident or collision and the public
safety departments of the city are called relating to a request for wrecker
service, the investigating or responding officer or employee shall communicate
the fact immediately to the Police Department headquarters for selection of a
wrecker from the wrecker rotation list maintained by the city’s Police
Department as provided in this chapter. Any wrecker company that desires to be
placed on the city wrecker rotation list shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Have been issued a permit and safety and insurance compliance
certificate in accordance with this chapter;
      (2)   Have applied to be on such list;
      (3)   Maintain 24-hour wrecker service located within and not exceeding a
seven-mile radius of the city’s Police Department central office and be within
a 15-minute response time to anywhere in the city;
      (4)   Maintain an impound yard located within and not exceeding a seven-
mile radius of the city’s Police Department central office;
      (5)   In addition to the minimum requirements for wreckers required in §
112.26 of this chapter, possess at least one license wrecker not less than one
and one-half tons in size, equipped with a power-operated winch, winch line and
boom, with a factory-rated lifting capacity of not less than 10,000 pounds,
single-line capacity;
      (6)   In addition to the minimum requirements for wreckers required in §
112.26 of this chapter, possess at least one licensed platform wrecker;
      (7)   Agree to respond to all requests for wrecker service initiated by
the city;
      (8)   The owner or operator of a wrecker company shall immediately notify
the Chief of Police or his or her designated representative of any changes in
status as it relates to any insurance, certificate or permit or any factor that
may impede its ability to comply with this chapter; and
      (9)   The owner or operator of a wrecker company shall produce a monthly
report by the third Monday of each month listing the status of any and all
vehicles towed for the city that are considered abandoned in their lot, after
proper notification has been given in accordance with Tex. Transportation Code
Subch. C, Vehicle Abandoned In Storage Facility, § 683.031.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receiving a communication from the city’s Police
Department, the wrecker company presently on call, or its duly authorized
agent, shall tow the disabled vehicle and remote such vehicle from the public
streets of the city.
      (2)   The Chief of Police or his or her designated agent shall establish
the procedures for the rotation of wreckers on the wrecker rotation list.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 112.08 POLICE OFFICERS NOT TO RECOMMEND WRECKER SERVICE.
   No police officer investigating or present at the scene or site of any
wreck, accident or collision on a public street shall, directly or indirectly,
either by word, gesture, sign or otherwise, recommend to any person the name of
any particular person engaged in the wrecker service or repair business, nor
shall any such police officer influence or attempt to influence in any manner
the decision of any person in choosing or selecting a wrecker or repair
service; provided that, any police officer, in exercise of his or her
discretion as a police officer, may direct that any vehicle, whether towed by a
wrecker selected by the owner of the vehicle or from the wrecker rotation list,
shall be taken by the driver of the wrecker towing the vehicle directly to the
city pound or other location designated by such police officer and there held
by the city for any lawful purpose.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 MAXIMUM RATES FOR WRECKERS ON ROTATION LIST.
   (A)   Those wreckers who volunteer for rotation agree to follow the rates as
set out herein as a condition of being placed on the rotation list. The maximum
rates or fees authorized to be charged for the following enumerated wrecker
services in response to a call from any employee of the city acting in his or
her official capacity are as follows. Any person requesting his or her vehicle
to be removed to a garage or other area will be responsible for the additional
wrecker fee:
      (1)   Towing a wrecked or disabled vehicle or illegally parked vehicle:
$150; and
      (2)   Towing of trucks exceeding one ton:
         (a)   First hour of service (minimum charge): $75;
         (b)   Additional time required to remove such vehicle (per working
hour): $75;
         (c)   Towing of disabled vehicle from high water, up to a maximum fee
per hour, per wrecker: $50;
         (d)   Disconnect transmission: $20;
         (e)   Towing vehicle from outside city limits: $15;
         (f)   Release of personal property before 8:00 a.m. or after 5:00
p.m.: $15;
         (g)   Notification fees: $10 after 24 hours of vehicle impoundment;
         (h)   Impoundment tarp: $10;
         (i)   Additional days of storage: $20/day;
         (j)   Dollies or flatbed required: $40;
         (k)   Pick-up and delivery of vehicle to city pound:
            1.   Day time delivery: $35; and
            2.   Night time delivery: $50.
         (l)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the fee for towing from an
accident shall not be subject to the rates set out above, but shall be
reasonable based upon the circumstances of the accident. Any person who
believes that rates charged pursuant to this section are not reasonable shall
have the right to present his or her complaint to the Chief of Police. The
Chief of Police shall endeavor to assist the person so complaining to resolve
the matter with the towing company. Any towing company who receives three or
more complaints pursuant to this section in any six-month period shall be
subject to being removed from the rotation pursuant to the process set out in
this chapter. The complainant will be able to file a complaint with the state’s
Department of Licensing and Regulation, who oversees the wrecker company.
   (B)   Where any state law, rule or regulation requires a different rate for
services rendered by a wrecker service and/or storage facility or any other
type of business entity regulated under this chapter as provided for in this
chapter, and then such state-regulated rate shall be followed without the
necessity of further amendment of this section.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 112.10 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS AND OPERATION PROCEDURES; COMPLIANCE.
   Each wrecker company certificate holder shall follow standard safety
precautions and operation procedures generally recognized in the wrecker
business to and from and at the scene of an accident or collision and shall
comply with all traffic code ordinances of the city. Each wrecker company at
the scene of an accident or collision shall promptly remove all debris from an
accident or collision occurring on the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in the operation of an automobile
wrecker on the public streets and ways of the city and not having been directed
to do so by the Chief of Police, the Parking Manager of the Public Works
Department or authorized representatives, knowingly to move, tow, haul or
otherwise transport in, on or over the public streets and ways of the city any
vehicle which has been abandoned or which has been involved in a collision and
is on a public street, way or other public property.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 NON-CONSENT TOWING.
   (A)   Requirements for engaging in private property towing and storage.
      (1)   Wrecker service companies engaging in private property, non-consent
towing of vehicles pursuant to Tex. Occupations Code Ch. 2308 shall be licensed
by the state pursuant to Tex. Occupations Code Ch. 2308, and must obtain a City
of Palmview wrecker permit to operate in Palmview as stated in §
112.25.
      (2)   A wrecker service company towing and/or a vehicle storage facility
accepting a non-consent towed vehicle towed from private property must report
that tow to the Police Department. This reporting must be made within 30
minutes of removing the vehicle, giving a general description of the vehicle,
the vehicle license plate number and issuing state, vehicle identification
number, location from which it was removed, where it is stored, contact
information of storage facility and the name of the person authorizing the
vehicle to be removed. A facsimile transmission of the authorized Police
Department form shall be considered proper notification under this section.
      (3)   If the owner or operator of a vehicle which is parked in violation
of this code or state law arrives before the vehicle is hooked up, the wrecker
operator shall release the vehicle for free. If the owner or operator of a
vehicle which is parked in violation of this code or state law arrives after
the vehicle is hooked up but before it is removed from the property, the
wrecker operator shall advise the owner or operator that the vehicle will be
released upon payment of the drop fee. The wrecker operator will allow the
vehicle owner or operator at least 15 minutes to obtain the funds for the drop
fee. There is nothing requiring the wrecker operator to release a legally towed
vehicle that is properly hooked up and has left the private property.
      (4)   If a wrecker operator is notified by the Police Department that the
vehicle he or she is removing has been reported stolen and he or she has not
removed it he shall immediately disengage his wrecker from such vehicle and
shall abandon the tow.
      (5)   Regardless of any general contractual or "patrol account" which may
exist between a wrecker service company and a property owner, it is a violation
of this section to make a non-consent tow from private property of any vehicle
unless specific authority as to that vehicle has been given by the property
owner and a sign is erected on the premises as required by "Required signage
for private non-consent tows". This prohibition shall not apply if the vehicle:
         (a)   Is in or obstructs a vehicular traffic aisle, entry or exit of
the parking facility;
         (b)   Prevents a vehicle from exiting a parking space in the facility;
         (c)   Is in or obstructs a fire lane marked according to Tex.
Occupations Code § 2308.251;
         (d)   Does not display the proper special license plates or disabled
parking placard and is in a parking space that is designated for the exclusive
use of a vehicle transporting a disabled person; or
         (e)   Is blocking an access to a trash dumpster.
      (6)   (a)   The owner or operator of a wrecker service company may not
charge a non-consent towing fee, including administrative fees and surcharges,
in excess of the maximum fees established by the city, as follows:
            1.   For vehicles under 26,000 pounds, $175;
            2.   For vehicles per unit over 26,000 pounds, $450 per hour;
            3.   Drop fees. Forty percent (40%) of the applicable non-consent
towing fee for vehicles over 10,000 pounds, and $50 for vehicles under 10,000
pounds;
            4.   Storage fees shall not exceed $20 per 24 hours for vehicles
under 25 feet and $35 for vehicles over 25 feet; and
            5.   Twenty dollar ($20) maximum impoundment fee.
         (b)   Any overcharge shall be refunded and appropriate action may be
taken against the tow service, or employees or agents thereof, by the city. All
fees established by divisions (6)(a)1. - 5. above shall be reviewed by the
city' annually, unless additional review is specifically requested by a wrecker
service company.
      (7)   Wrecker operators and wrecker service companies performing non-
consent tows within the city must accept major credit cards as payment for the
fees described in division (6)(a) above.
      (8)   Upon initial contact with the owner of a vehicle which is the
subject of a non-consent tow, a wrecker service operator, a vehicle storage
facility operator, or any employee or agent thereof shall give written notice
to the vehicle owner of his or her right to a hearing pursuant to Tex.
Occupations Code § 2308.452. The notice must include a statement that the
hearing must be requested in writing within 14 days of the date the vehicle was
stored and that the request must be filed with a magistrate in whose
jurisdiction is the location from which the vehicle was removed.
      (9)   Non-consent towed vehicles removed from a location within the city
shall not be taken to a storage facility location which is outside of a circle
having a radius of three miles from Palmview City Hall.
      (10)   Non-consent towed vehicles removed from a location within the city
shall not be taken to a storage facility that does not accept major credit
cards.
   (B)   Required signage for private non-consent.
      (1)   The following parking facility signage and posting requirements
shall only apply where notice of prohibited parking is given by signage:
         (a)   Signs shall be placed on the right-hand side of each driveway
access or curb cuts allowing vehicular access to a parking facility. If there
are no curbs or access barriers, signs shall be placed at intervals of not less
than 25 feet around the perimeter which is accessible by vehicles.
         (b)   Each sign shall be placed at a right angle so as to face
entering traffic. They shall be placed no farther than five feet from the
public right-of-way. but shall not be within said right-of-way.
         (c)   Each sign shall be permanently installed on a pole, post,
permanent wall, or permanent barrier so that the bottom edge of the sign is no
lower than five feet and no higher than eight feet above the ground level.
         (d)   Each sign shall be a minimum of 18 inches wide by 24 inches
high, and a maximum of 24 inches wide by 30 inches high. Their facings shall be
fabricated out of weatherproof material. The letters on such signs shall be of
a minimum height of two inches, of a contrasting color to the background, and
shall be light-reflective. The background shall be white.
         (e)   Each sign shall state who may park in the facility, and shall
further state that all other are prohibited and will be towed away at the
owner's expense. The words "tow away zone" or "towing enforced" shall be
included on each sign in capital letters of a minimum height of two inches.
         (f)   Each sign shall provide the name and current telephone number of
the wrecker service company authorized to tow vehicles from the parking
facility, and the name and current telephone number of the vehicle storage
facility, if different from the wrecker service company. Alternatively, each
sign may state the name and phone number of the parking facility owner if that
person has knowledge of the location of the stored vehicle.
         (g)   Signs shall be continuously maintained at a parking facility for
24 hours prior to the towing or removing of any vehicle. However, this division
shall not be deemed as giving proper notice to the owner of a vehicle parked on
a parking facility prior to the installation of the signs and not subsequently
moved by the owner.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall be in addition to the
requirements of Tex. Occupations Code Ch. 2308.
   (C)   Exceptions. Except as specifically noted, this section does not apply
to:
      (1)   A person towing a vehicle with the express consent of the owner or
operator of the vehicle:
      (2)   A person towing a vehicle from private property under the direction
of the city's Police
Department; or
      (3)   A person who engages in towing a vehicle in connection with a bona
fide repossession of same when written authorization has been received by the
city's Police Department from the person having a security interest in such
vehicle.
   (D)   Offenses and punishment.
      (1)   A person commits an offense if, by act or omission, he or she
violates a provision of this section. A culpable mental state is not required
for commission of an offense under this section unless the provision defining
the conduct expressly requires a culpable mental state.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if he or she intentionally or knowingly
tampers with, removes, or destroys a tow warning sign required by this section
without the consent of the property owner.
      (3)   A person commits an offense if he or she performs a non-consent tow
originating in the city and tows the vehicle to a location which is outside of
a circle having a radius of three miles from Palmview City Hall.
      (4)   A person commits an offense if he or she performs a non-consent tow
originating in the city and he or she fails to take the vehicle directly to his
or her storage facility at the time of the tow.
      (5)   A person commits an offense if he or she charges a fee for towing
in excess of the maximum fee set in this section or by a resolution adopted by
the City Council. For purposes of this division, person includes, but is not
limited to. any owner or officer of an entity that charges such an excess fee.
      (6)   Each day a violation of this section occurs and each day such
violation continues constitutes a separate offense.
      (7)   Any violation not deemed punishable under this section may also be
subject to penalty pursuant to state law or other city ordinance.
      (8)   An offense committed under this section is punishable by a fine of
not less than $200 or more than $500 dollars. The minimum fine established in
this division shall be doubled for the second conviction of the same offense
within any two-year period. A third and any subsequent conviction within any
two-year period will result in a fine of $500. At no time shall the minimum
fine exceed the maximum fine established in this division. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit application of any fines authorized by state law to be
assessed.
      (9)   Prosecution for an offense under this section does not prevent the
use of other enforcement remedies or procedures applicable to the person
charged with the conduct or involved in the offense.
(Ord. 2021-03B-O, passed 4-6-2021)
PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES
§ 112.25 PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person desiring to engage in the wrecker business in the city
shall make application, in writing, on a form provided for that purpose, to the
Chief of Police for a permit to engage in the wrecker business and for a safety
and insurance compliance certificate for each wrecker proposed to be operated,
and such application shall contain the name, address, telephone number, the
number and types of wrecker equipment to be operated, the true owner of the
company concerned and a statement that the applicant does or does not desire to
appear on the wrecker rotation list.
   (B)   Every application, when filed, shall be sworn to by the applicant.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 112.26 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE; FEES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, or his or her representative, shall issue a
permit to engage in the wrecker business to all applicants complying with the
provisions of this chapter and shall issue a permit and safety and insurance
compliance certificate for all wreckers of such applicants so complying.
   (B)   No permit authorizing the operation of a wrecker business and no
safety insurance compliance certificate authorizing the operation of a wrecker
on the streets of the city shall be issued unless the following requirements
are met.
      (1)   Wrecker equipment and impound area. Every wrecker proposed to be
used by the applicant shall comply with the following minimum safety
requirements.
         (a)   Each wrecker shall be not less than three-quarter ton in size
and shall be equipped with booster brakes.
         (b)   Each wrecker shall be equipped with a power winch line and boom
with a factory-rated lift capacity of not less than 5,000 pounds’ single-time
capacity.
         (c)   Each wrecker shall carry as standard equipment tow bars, or
roller bars, safety chains, a fire extinguisher, wrecking bars and an axe. The
applicant shall have dollies if needed, but they are not required equipment for
each wrecker.
         (d)   Each wrecker shall provide that its impoundment area, if located
in the city, shall, at minimum, meet all of the city’s development and general
code requirements.
         (e)   The impoundment area, if located outside the city, shall be
within and not exceed a seven-mile radius from the main police station.
      (2)   Insurance. All wrecker services shall procure and keep in full
force and effect a policy of public liability and property damage insurance
issued by a casualty insurance company authorized to do business in the state
and in the standard form approved by the Board of Insurance Commissioners of
the state, with the insured provisions of such policy including the city as an
insured, and the coverage provision insuring the public from any loss or damage
that may arise to any person or property by reason of the operation of a
wrecker of such company and providing that the amount of recovery on each
wrecker shall be in limits of not less than $500,000 for damages arising out of
bodily injury to or death of one person in any accident, and $100,000 for
injury to or destruction of property in any one accident.
      (3)   Driver information. A list of all wrecker operators/drivers and a
colored copy of their state operator’s license shall be submitted with the
above insurance policies, it shall be the obligation of the wrecker service to
keep the operator/driver license information current pursuant to Tex.
Transportation Code § 521.459.
      (4)   Delinquent taxes. No delinquent taxes shall be due the city upon
any wrecker for which such permit or certificate is sought, and the owner
thereof shall not have failed to render the amount due for ad valorem taxation.
      (5)   Fees; renewal of permit.
         (a)   Annual fee. There is hereby imposed an annual fee of $100 per
wrecker company.
         (b)   Inspection fee. There is hereby imposed an annual inspection fee
of $35 per wrecker unit and a government entity/law enforcement fee of $15 per
vehicle towed. (These fees shall be deposited, upon recovery, in the Police
Department’s account and utilized for any and all efforts for the enforcement
of this chapter, and general traffic safety for non-consent tows, each wrecker
will submit payment monthly).
         (c)   Refund of fees. All fees are non-refundable.
         (d)   Application for renewal. Annual renewal applications may be
submitted between November 1 and January 31 of each year. A certificate of
insurance and fees shall be submitted with the written renewal application.
Regardless of when a renewal application is submitted, the renewal permit will
be from February 1 through January 31.
         (e)   Late fee. A late fee of $50 will be charged if the completed
renewals permit application is not filed or postmarked by midnight, January 31
of each year.
      (6)   State licenses and certificates. A copy of all licenses and/or
certificates issued by the state allowing the applicant to operate a wrecker,
impound yard or vehicle storage facility shall be required upon payment of
annual fees per wrecker company wrecker unit.
      (7)   Identification on vehicles. Each wrecker shall have the wrecker
company’s name, address, city where located and telephone number of the
business operating the wrecker permanently inscribed on each side of the
vehicle in letters no less than two inches high In contrasting colors. No
temporary signs of any kind will be permitted.
      (8)   Certification sticker. Certification shall be evidenced by a
windshield sticker affixed to the lower left side of the windshield.
      (9)   Duplicate certificate. A duplicate certificate will be issued upon
re-inspection and payment of $35 re-inspection fee.
      (10)   Revocation of certificate. A wrecker certification will be revoked
for failure to meet and/or maintain the required standards and regulations of
the state law and this chapter.
      (11)   Application for recertification. If a wrecker certification is
revoked, an application for recertification may be made as soon as the wrecker
meets these standards.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 112.27 REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATING WRECKER.
   Each safety and insurance compliance certificate for a wrecker vehicle shall
state that such wrecker has been inspected and approved under the direction of
the Department’s public safety, and a current inspection sticker shall be
affixed securely to the inside of the windshield of the wrecker vehicle. No
person shall operate a wrecker on the public streets of the city unless a
permit to engage in the wrecker business has been issued to the owner of such
wrecker, a safety and insurance compliance certificate has been issued to such
wrecker and the wrecker has a current state inspection sticker. No permit or
safety and insurance compliance certificate shall be transferrable, and every
permit and safety and insurance compliance certificate shall expire at midnight
on January 31 of the year in which the permit expires.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 112.28 GROUNDS FOR SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit holder may have his or her permit suspended:
      (1)   For seven days for any violation of this chapter; or
      (2)   For 20 days for a second or subsequent violation of this chapter.
   (B)   A permit holder may have his or her permit revoked:
      (1)   For a third or subsequent violation of this chapter;
      (2)   Causes or permits the operation of a city certified wrecker, either
owned or contracted for, by an unlicensed driver on the public roadways;
      (3)   Causes or permits the operation of a wrecker not certified by the
city, either owned or contracted for, on the public roadway;
      (4)   Fails to maintain in force the insurance required for the operation
of a towing company, vehicle storage facility or its equipment by the laws of
the state;
      (5)   Operates a wrecker or wrecker company in any way which endangers
the life or safety of any persons in any of the following ways:
         (a)   The grossly negligent operation of a vehicle used by the wrecker
company; or
         (b)   Criminal assault committed by the permit holder or his or her
agents or employees during the normal course of business.
      (6)   Submits false information on a permit application;
      (7)   Is convicted of a violation under this chapter; and/or
      (8)   Is convicted of fraud or theft, as defined in the state’s Penal
Code, in the conduct or operation of the permit holder’s wrecker company.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 112.29 PERMIT SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon complaint against a wrecker company or any agent or employee
thereof filed by any person with the Chief of Police or designated person, or
upon his or her own motion charging a violation of any of the terms of this
chapter or any ordinances of the city of laws of the state regulating motor
vehicles or crimes of moral turpitude or for good cause shown, the Chief of
Police or designated person after giving five days’ notice of such complaint to
such wrecker company, may hear evidence with reference to such complaint and,
after such hearing, the Chief of Police may revoke or suspend the authorization
of the wrecker service company to continue providing service on the city’s
voluntary wrecker rotation list.
   (B)   After the Chief of Police has reviewed the findings of the complaint
for revocation or suspension of the permit of any wrecker company, he or she
shall make the determination and declare such findings along with the terms, if
any, of any suspension of a temporary or permanent nature. The decision of the
Chief of Police shall be reduced to writing.
   (C)   The decision of the Chief of Police under this section may be appealed
to the City Manager; provided that, notice of appeal is perfected within ten
calendar days of the Chief of Police’s decision. Notice of appeal is perfected
by sending a certified letter, return receipt requested, addressed to the City
Manager, stating that an appeal from decision of the Chief of Police is
desired. The City Manager shall hold a hearing on the matter within a
reasonable time after receipt of such return and shall issue a decision thereon
within a reasonable time after such hearing.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punishable by a fine of $2,000 per violation.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner of a wrecker company, agent or employee of a wrecker
company, driver or operator of a wrecker found guilty of this chapter or any of
its provisions on complaint filed in Municipal Court or in any other court of
competent jurisdiction shall, upon a finding of guilty, be fined as provided
herein.
      (2)   In addition to the penal remedy provided for in division (A) above,
the city shall be entitled to injunctive or other civil remedy in any court of
competent jurisdiction in accordance with the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 11-18-2013)
CHAPTER 113: FIREWORKS SALES AND DISPLAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Sale, exhibition, display or possession; exception
Fireworks Stand
   
113.15   Definitions
   
113.16   Permit required
   
113.17   Specific requirements
   
113.18   General requirements
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 SALE, EXHIBITION, DISPLAY OR POSSESSION; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The exhibition, possession, sale, display or offering for sale of any
squib, rockets, firecracker, torpedo, grenade or any combustible firework or
aerial type fireworks is a nuisance and is prohibited within the city and
within an area immediately adjacent and contiguous to the city limits and
extending for a distance of 5,000 feet. This section shall not apply: to the
sale of any such articles by wholesalers to each other; to the sale of any such
articles at wholesale to retail merchants conducting business entirely within
the city; or to the sale by wholesalers for private or public demonstration as
provided in this section.
   (B)   Although the city has declared fireworks a hazard and/or nuisance, the
city recognizes that fireworks cannot be curtailed due to national tradition
and/or custom. Therefore, the city will allow the display, sale, use or
possession of non-aerial fireworks in accordance with this section. A fireworks
stand shall comply with the requirements of this section and with any
applicable state or federal regulations and rules regulating fireworks.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 5-22-2014) Penalty, see §
113.99
FIREWORKS STAND
§ 113.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTOR. A person who:
      (1)   Imports fireworks into the state; or
      (2)   Sells fireworks to:
         (a)   A jobber, retailer or other distributor for resale; or
         (b)   A holder of a single public display permit, a multiple public
display permit or another fireworks permit.
   FIREWORKS. A composition or device:
      (1)   Designed for entertainment to produce a visible or audible effect
by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation; and
      (2)   Defined by 49 C.F.R. § 173.560.
   FIREWORKS, 1.4G. A small fireworks device:
      (1)   Primarily designed to produce visible or audible effects by
combustion, deflagration or detonation;
      (2)   That complies with the construction, labeling and chemical
composition requirements of the United States Consumer Product Safety
Commission in 16 C.F.R. part 1507 or the most recently adopted version of that
rule; and
      (3)   That is classified by the Department in 49 C.F.R. part 173.
   JOBBER. A person who purchases fireworks only for resale to retailers.
   MANUFACTURER. A person, firm, corporation or association who makes
fireworks.
   PERSON. An individual or entity, including an owner, manager, officer,
employee, operator or occupant.
   WHOLESALERS. A person who sells fireworks to retailers.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 5-22-2014)
§ 113.16 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   A fireworks permit holder can sell fireworks only to the public
and only during the following periods:
         (a)   Beginning June 24 and ending at midnight on July 4; and
         (b)   Beginning December 20 and ending at midnight on January 1 of the
following year.
      (2)   Fireworks cannot not be sold or offered for sale to children less
than 16 years of age or to an intoxicated or incompetent person. A person
selling fireworks shall make a reasonable effort to determine that potential
purchasers of fireworks are of the minimum age as required by this section.
      (3)   A person shall pay a non-refundable fee in the amount of $200 for
the fireworks permit.
   (B)   A fireworks permit is required for each fireworks stand.
      (1)   A permit holder must purchase fireworks 1.4G only from a
distributor or jobber licensed in the state.
      (2)   Fireworks 1.4G can be sold to the general public only at legally
permitted fireworks site and during the legal selling periods defined in this
section.
      (3)   Prior to the issuance of a fireworks permit, the applicant must
present evidence of a valid current sales tax permit issued by the State
Comptroller and the sales tax permit number must be entered on the fireworks
stand permit by the person issuing the permit.
      (4)   A fireworks permit can only be issued to individuals or groups
engaged in the retail sales of fireworks or to wholesalers as described in this
section.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 5-22-2014)
§ 113.17 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   A fireworks stand shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Each stand of less than 16 feet in length shall have at least one walk
door, which opens outward. Stands measuring 16 feet or longer must have at
least two walk doors, one in each end, which open outward.
   (B)   A minimum of combustible material such as posters, signs and
decorations may be used on interior walls.
   (C)   Electrical service to the stand shall be installed at least eight feet
above ground or buried underground.
   (D)   Each stand utilizing electricity shall have a point of power
interruption, either inside or outside the stand, (switch or switches) located
near an exit door which interrupts all electric supply to devices and equipment
located inside and on the stand.
   (E)   All electrical wiring, equipment and devices both inside and outside
the stand, shall be UL approved, be securely mounted to the structure and be
installed and maintained to prevent electrical hazards. Splices in electrical
wiring servicing equipment and devices inside the stand shall be enclosed, in
junction boxes. Light fixtures and wiring used for illumination inside and
outside of the stand shall be installed end maintained to prevent occidental
contact by the general public and employees.
   (F)   Drop cords with lights, extension cords or bare wiring shall not be
used in any manner inside a retail stand.
   (G)   In stands where generator-created power is used, the generator shall
be located in an area free from grass, trash and other flammable materials and
at least ten feet from the stand. Reserve fuel for the generator must be stored
in an approved safety container.
   (H)   Fireworks stands shall not be illuminated or heated by any device
which requires open flame or exposed heating elements. Electric heaters shall
be equipped with a switching device to slop the flow of current should the
heater be tipped over.
   (I)   If the fireworks stand is used for the overnight storage of fireworks
1.4G, it must be equipped with suitable locking devices to prevent unauthorized
entry.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 5-22-2014) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.18 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A person, 18 years of age or older, shall be on duty during all phases
of operation. It shall be the responsibility of the permit holder to comply
with or require compliance with the fireworks rules.
   (B)   Each fireworks stand shall have, at a minimum, a 51b multi-purpose
ABC-rated portable fire extinguisher.
   (C)   An unobstructed pathway to walk doors shall be maintained within the
retail fireworks site during selling operation.
   (D)   The display, offer for sale or sales of fireworks from tents and motor
vehicles is prohibited. Fireworks may not be sold or stored for future sale at
any inhabited dwelling, house, apartment or other structure used in whole or in
part as a home or place of residence by any person or persons.
   (E)   (1)   Smoking shall not be permitted in the fireworks site.
      (2)   The presence of lighted cigars, cigarettes or pipes within ten feet
of any site where fireworks are sold or stored is prohibited.
      (3)   “Fireworks” and “No Smoking” signs in letters not less than four
inches high shall be conspicuously posted on the inside and outside of each
entrance door and at several locations inside the building.
   (F)   The consumption or possession of alcoholic beverages in any retail
fireworks site is prohibited. No retail sales personnel inside the facility or
any supervisor shall be under the influence of or consume alcoholic beverages
while on duty.
   (G)   (1)   A fireworks site shall only sell non-aerial fireworks.
      (2)   The display and offer for sale, or sales of fireworks within any
structure or building where any other business or any other merchandise is
sold, is prohibited.
   (H)   A fireworks permit shall be required for each fireworks stand offering
fireworks for sale during selling season and such permit must be prominently
displayed and in full view.
   (I)   The display or offer for sale or sales of fireworks from single- or
multi-family residential structures is prohibited.
   (J)   All fireworks sites must furnish parking off the highway. Off-premises
parking is strictly prohibited.
   (K)   An area of at least ten feet in width on all sides of a fireworks
stand shall be kept free of high grass, empty cardboard boxes and trash.
   (L)   Fireworks shall not be displayed or stored behind glass through which
direct sunlight will shine on the fireworks.
   (M)   Fireworks offered for sale to the general public in the state shall
conform to the labeling requirements of the United States Consumer Product
Safety Commission and the United States Department of Transportation. Only
labeling specifications or requirements mandated by either of these agencies
shall be required for the labeling of items offered for sale in the state.
   (N)   Internal combustion engines shall not be operated inside a fireworks
stand.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 5-22-2014) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §§
113.15 through
113.18 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to exceed in the amount
of $2,000. Any person who knowingly provides a false answer to any question or
submitting false information or documents with the fireworks permit application
may be tampering with a governmental record which is punishable under the Tex.
Penal Code Ch. 37, § 37.10.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 5-22-2014)
CHAPTER 114: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS; MOBILE FOOD UNITS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Health Department; establishment; duties
   
114.02   Food establishments
Mobile Food Establishments
   
114.15   Definitions
   
114.16   Enforcement interpretation
   
114.17   Adoption of Food Service Sanitation Code
   
114.18   Permit required
   
114.19   Food manager’s permit
   
114.20   Food handling certification
   
114.21   Mobile food vendors
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Food generally, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 431.001 et seq.
   Unwholesome food, drink or medicine, see Tex. Penal Code §§ 22.09 and 32.42
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 HEALTH DEPARTMENT; ESTABLISHMENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   Establishment and composition. There is hereby created the Health
Department for the city, which consists of a Health Official together with such
officers or assistants as may deem advisable.
   (B)   Office created; duties.
      (1)   The office of City Health Official is hereby created. The Health
Official shall be appointed by the City Manager. The Health Official shall
exercise the powers and perform the duties prescribed to him or her by state
law, by the Charter and ordinances of the city.
      (2)   The city’s Health Official may delegate and designate such
employees of the city to enforce this chapter and Tex. Health and Safety Code
Ch. 341 (Minimum Standards of Sanitation and Health Protection Measures) and
342 (Local Regulation of Sanitation). Such designated employees shall be
appointed by the City Manager.
      (3)   The Health Official shall issue all necessary orders to ensure
compliance with this chapter and is authorized to approve city health permits.
   (C)   Right of entry. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere,
hinder or delay the Health Official, inspectors, Code Enforcement Officers or
any other city officers in the discharge of any duties under this chapter or to
refuse to comply with the orders of the Health Official.
   (D)   Order of correction. The Health Official shall have the authority
whenever, in his or her opinion, a nuisance detrimental to health exists to
cause the same to be abated or removed.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 114.02 FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   The term FOOD ESTABLISHMENT means an operation that:
      (1)   Sells, stores, prepares, packages, serves or otherwise provides
food for human consumption such as: a food service establishment; retail food
store; satellite or catered feeding location; catering operation if the
operation provides food directly to a consumer or to a conveyance used to
transport people; market; remote catered operations; conveyance used to
transport people; institution; or food bank; and
      (2)   Relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly, or
indirectly through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service that is provided by common
carriers.
   (B)   The term includes an element of the operation such as a transportation
vehicle or a central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or
satellite feeding location unless the vending or feeding location is permitted
by the regulatory authority; a restaurant; a grocery store; an operation that
is conducted in a mobile, stationary, temporary or permanent facility or
location; where consumption is on or off premises; and regardless of whether
there is a charge for the food.
   (C)   The term does not include a produce stand that only offers whole,
uncut fresh fruits and vegetables or an establishment that offers only
prepackaged foods that are not potentially hazardous; except that, the term
does include an establishment that sells ice cream, frozen custard, soft serve
dairy products, gelato or other frozen desserts.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 8-16-2016)
MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 114.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
definitions as set out in Tex. Food Establishment Rules Code Ch. 228 shall be
given the same meaning as if set out herein and as follows.
   CENTRAL PREPARATION FACILITY. A facility that is an approved and permitted
retail food establishment at which food is prepared, stored and wrapped; and
the mobile food unit is supplied with fresh water and ice; and emptied of waste
water into a proper waste disposal system, and cleaned, including washing,
rinsing and sanitizing of those food-contact surfaces or items not capable of
being immersed in the mobile food unit utensil-washing sink. Use of a private
residence as a CENTRAL PREPARATION FACILITY is prohibited.
   MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A vehicle-mounted food vendor that is designed to
be readily moveable and from which food is distributed, sold or served to an
ultimate consumer. The term includes, but is not limited to, mobile food
preparation vehicles and pushcarts.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT (MFU). A vehicle mounted, self or otherwise propelled,
self-contained food service operation, designed to be readily movable
(including, but not limited to, catering trucks, trailers, push carts and
roadside vendors) and used to store, prepare, display, serve or sell food.
MOBILE UNITS must completely retain their mobility at all times. A MOBILE FOOD
UNIT does not mean a stand or a booth. A roadside food vendor is classified as
a MFU.
   PUSHCART. A non-self-propelled mobile food unit limited to serving foods
requiring a limited amount of preparation as authorized by the regulatory
authority and is readily movable by one or two persons. A PUSHCART is
classified as a mobile food unit. A PUSHCART does not include non-self-
propelled units owned and operated within a retail food store. This type of
mobile unit requires the support of a central preparation facility.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 8-16-2016; Ord. 2017-09, passed 6-14-2017)
§ 114.16 ENFORCEMENT INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The Health Official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter and other related state and local laws. The
Health Official shall have the authority to render interpretations of this
subchapter and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the
application of its provisions; provided further that, where the provisions of
the laws of the state are in conflict with such compliance provisions, the
state law shall govern and shall control the interpretation given any of the
provisions of this subchapter and shall not have the effect of waiving
requirements specifically provided for in this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere, hinder or delay the
Health Official, inspectors, Code Enforcement Officers or any other city
officers in the discharge of any duties under this subchapter or to refuse to
comply with the orders of the Health Official.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 8-16-2016; Ord. 2017-09, passed 6-14-2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.17 ADOPTION OF FOOD SERVICE SANITATION CODE.
   For the purpose of regulating food service and food service establishments,
the current rules or rules as amended by the Tex. Board of Health found in Tex.
Administrative Code Title 25, Part 1, Ch. 228 and 229, Subch. K, related to
state food establishments, is hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter
as if fully set out in this subchapter, and the provisions thereof shall govern
all matters covered therein within the city, except those provisions which may
be in conflict with other provisions of this subchapter. A copy of such
Administrative Code is on file in the City Secretary’s office.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 8-16-2016; Ord. 2017-09, passed 6-14-2017)
§ 114.18 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Required; transfer prohibited; posting; temporary permits.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food establishment
or retail food store within the city without a valid permit issued to him or
her by the regulatory authority of the city. Only a person who complies with
the provisions of this subchapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such
a permit.
      (2)   Permits shall not be transferable from one person to another person
or from one food establishment or retail food store to another such
establishment or retail food store.
      (3)   A valid permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place in every food
establishment and retail food store.
      (4)   Permits for temporary food service establishments shall be issued
for a period of time not to exceed 14 days.
   (B)   Application; inspection by Health Department; issuance; fee.
      (1)   Application. Any person desiring to operate a food service
establishment or retail food store within the city shall make a written
application for such permit on forms to be provided by the city’s Health
Department. Such application shall include the following information:
         (a)   The applicant’s full name, office address and telephone number,
including the address and telephone of the home office, if any, and whether
such applicant is an individual, firm or corporation; and, if a partnership,
the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the general and/or limited
partners;
         (b)   The location and type of food establishment or retail food
store;
         (c)   The signature of the applicant or applicants; and
         (d)   If the application is for a temporary food service
establishment, it shall include the inclusive dates of the proposed operation
of such establishment.
      (2)   Inspections. Upon receipt of such application, the Health
Department shall make an inspection of the food establishment or retail food
store to determine compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. The
Health Department may make such inspections thereafter as it shall deem
necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   Issuance; fee. When inspection by the Health Department reveals
that the applicable requirements of this subchapter have been met, including
the payment of a permit fee as required in this section, a permit shall be
issued to the applicant by the Health Department. The annual permit fee to be
paid by each applicant shall be as follows:
 
Food Establishment and Retail Food Store Permits
1 - 10 employees                                                $100
11 or more employees                                            $150
Food/concessions stands not selling potentially hazardous foods $50
 
   (C)   Suspension; reinstatement.
      (1)   Suspension. Permits may be suspended by the Health Department for
failure to comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   Non-compliance with notice. Whenever a permit holder or operator
has failed to comply with any notice issued under the provisions of this
subchapter, the permit holder or operator shall be notified in writing that the
permit is, upon service of the notice, immediately suspended and that an
opportunity for a hearing will be provided if a written request for a hearing
is filed with the City Manager by the permit holder.
      (3)   Reinstatement of permits. Any person whose permit has been
suspended may, at any time, make application for re-inspection for the purpose
of reinstatement of permit. Within 48 hours following receipt of a written
request, including a statement signed by the applicant that, in his or her
opinion, the conditions causing suspension of the permit have been corrected,
the Health Department shall make a re-inspection. If the applicant is in
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter, the permit shall be
reinstated.
   (D)   Review of building permit applications.
      (1)   Whenever a food establishment is constructed or extensively
remodeled and whenever an existing structure is converted to use as a food
establishment, properly prepared plans and specifications for such
construction, remodeling or conversion shall be submitted to the regulatory
authority for review before work is begun. Extensive remodeling means that 20%
or greater of the area of the food establishment is to be remodeled. The plans
and specifications shall indicate the proposed layout, equipment arrangement,
mechanical plans and construction of materials or work areas and the type and
model of proposed fixed equipment and facilities. The plans and specifications
will be approved by the regulatory authority if they meet the requirements of
the rules adopted by this subchapter. The approved plans and specifications
must be followed in construction, remodeling or conversion.
      (2)   Failure to follow the approved plans and specifications will result
in a building permit denial, suspension or revocation in accordance with the
procedures under the Building Code.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 8-16-2016; Ord. 2017-09, passed 6-14-2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.19 FOOD MANAGER’S PERMIT.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of a food
establishment service, food processing establishment or mobile food unit during
all hours of operations, to fail to have at least one person on the premises in
charge of the operation who has a valid food manager’s permit. This requirement
shall not apply to retail food stores, roadside markets that offer only fresh
fruits and vegetables for sale, food vending machines or religious or
charitable organization’s bake sales.
   (B)   Issuance.
      (1)   A food manager’s permit may be issued by any state, municipality,
agency or school of instruction whose food manager’s certificate program of
certification has been accredited by the state’s Department of Health. The
certificate shall provide evidence that the applicant attended and
satisfactorily completed a course of instruction. Such course shall include, as
a minimum, not less than 15 hours of training, the contents of which cover
minimum essential knowledge of safe food handling practices, the biological
basis of food borne infection and transmission, the safe preparation, handling
and storage of food by all employees found in food service operations. The
permit shall be issued and be on a form designed by the regulatory authority
and shall remain the property of the regulatory authority to be returned to the
regulatory authority if revoked.
      (2)   A graduate of an institution of higher education who has completed
all requirements for an associates or higher degree in hotel and restaurant
management may be issued a permit without taking the food manager’s course upon
providing satisfactory proof of graduation from an approved school. A dietitian
currently registered by the ADA and licensed by the state’s Board of Examiners
of Dietitians may be issued a permit without taking the food manager’s course
upon providing satisfactory proof of current licensure and registration.
      (3)   A fee of $15 will be charged for each food manager’s permit issued
by the Health Department.
   (C)   Term. A food manager’s permit shall be valid for a period of five
years from the date of course completion certification, unless said permit is
sooner revoked by the Health Official. A permit issued to a dietitian shall be
valid for three years from the date of issuance.
   (D)   Revocation. The city’s Health Official may revoke or suspend a food
manager’s permit upon a material violation of food service sanitation
ordinances, rules or regulations. Notice of revocation of a food manager’s
permit shall be by written notice to the permittee, sent or delivered to the
address or location of the food establishment or that of the permittee, and
after affording the permittee an opportunity for hearing before the City
Manager.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 8-16-2016; Ord. 2017-09, passed 6-14-2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.20 FOOD HANDLING CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Certification.
      (1)   Certification.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any employee of a food establishment to
begin work without obtaining a food handling certification. A minimum of two
hours of food sanitation training is required every three years to ensure
employee performance of his or her duties, in accordance with food service
sanitation ordinances, rules and regulations.
         (b)   This training shall be an approved regulatory authority course.
A fee of $10 will be charged for each food handler permit issued by the
regulatory authority. A food handler’s food handling certification permit shall
be valid for a period of three years from date of issuance, unless the city’s
Health Official sooner revokes permit.
      (2)   Posting. Each food handler’s food handling certification permit
shall be, at all times, kept posted, filed or otherwise readily available for
viewing by the Health Administrator or his or her designated representative.
   (B)   Revocation.
      (1)   The city’s Health Official may revoke or suspend a food handler’s
food handling certificate permit upon a material violation of food service
sanitation ordinances, rules or regulations.
      (2)   Notice of revocation of a food handler’s food handling
certification permit shall be by written notice to the permittee, sent or
delivered to the address of location of the food establishment or that of the
permittee and after affording the permittee an opportunity for a hearing before
the City Manager.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 8-16-2016; Ord. 2017-09, passed 6-14-2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 MOBILE FOOD VENDORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EDIBLE GOODS. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Prepackaged food including, but not limited to, candy, beverages
and ice cream;
         (b)   Prepared food including, but not limited to, hot dogs, desserts
and pizza; and
         (c)   On-site prepared food including, but not limited to, shaved ice,
sandwiches and tacos.
      MOBILE FOOD VENDORS. Any business which sells edible goods from a non-
stationary location within the city. The terms shall include, but not be
limited to:
         (a)   CONCESSION TRAILERS. A vending unit which is pulled by a
motorized unit and has no power to move on its own; and
         (b)   MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS. A self-contained motorized unit selling
items defined as edible goods.
      NON-REFRIGERATED. Edible goods that are not required to be kept at a
temperature below 41°F according to the Federal Food and Drug Administration
and the state’s Food Establishment Rules.
   (B)   Permit and application.
      (1)   Permit. Every mobile food vendor shall have a permit issued by the
city to conduct business in the city.
      (2)   Application. Every mobile food vendor shall apply for a permit on a
form promulgated by the city. Each vending unit requires a separate permit.
      (3)   Permit form. A complete application shall require the following
information from the applicant to be considered:
         (a)   Name of applicant;
         (b)   Legal name of business or entity;
         (c)   State of incorporation or filing of a partnership or articles of
association;
         (d)   If applicable, copy of charter or articles of incorporation and
current listing of the directors, partners or principles;
         (e)   Sales tax number with a copy of sales tax permit;
         (f)   Signed permission form or provide notarize affidavit from the
private property owner granting permission for unit placement;
         (g)   Name, phone number and driver’s license number of business
owner;
         (h)   Proposed itinerary with route, vending locations and times;
         (i)   Contact name and phone number for mobile food vending unit while
in route;
         (j)   Description of product being sold;
         (k)   Vehicle identification number and description of mobile food
vending unit; and
         (l)   Signed affidavit with photo identification that each individual
applicant:
            1.   Has no unpaid civil judgments against him or her in any state
of U.S. possession which arise from a business activity which would have been
covered by this section if in effect at the time in the jurisdiction where such
judgments are of record; and
            2.   A statement of all convictions in any state, the United States
or U.S. possession within the last ten years.
      (4)   Permit fee.
         (a)   The application fee for a mobile food vendor permit shall be
$150. Each mobile food vendor unit shall be permitted separately.
         (b)   Mobile food vendor permits shall be valid for one year from the
date of permit issuance. Upon renewal, the applicant shall pay the renewal $100
fee, and update any changes in the permitting documentation upon permit
renewal. The applicant must submit the application and the renewal fee within
30 days before expiration of the permit or must reapply as a new applicant.
      (5)   Permit denial. A permit may be denied where:
         (a)   An applicant is found to have an unpaid civil judgment(s)
against him or her, which relates to the duties and responsibilities of the
permitted occupation, which shall be determined by the nature and amount of the
judgment, the relationship of the judgment to the purpose of the permit and the
extent that the permit would allow someone to engage in further activity that
would lead to unsatisfied civil judgments;
         (b)   An applicant has been convicted of a crime which directly
relates to the duties and responsibilities of the licensed occupation which
shall be determined by the nature and seriousness of the crime, the
relationship of the crime to the purpose of the permit and the extent that the
permit would allow someone to engage in further criminal activity;
         (c)   The required information is incomplete or incorrect or shows
that a person is not otherwise entitled to conduct business as a mobile food
vendor; or
         (d)   The opportunity to issue a permit has been denied due to
previous violations as described in this section.
      (6)   Display of permit. Every permit, including those from the city,
shall be displayed at all times in a conspicuous place where it can be read by
the general public on the mobile food vendor’s truck or concession trailer.
      (7)   Permit revocation or suspension.
         (a)   A permit may be revoked upon conviction of any offense committed
by an individual operating as a mobile food vendor in the city while engaged in
the permitted business, or if a final conviction occurs or is found to have
existed at the time of application, or if civil judgments, as set forth above,
are placed or found of record against an applicant. A permit may be suspended
in the event of pending charges of a crime, as set forth above, upon a
magistrate’s determination of probable cause in connection with such charges.
         (b)   A permit may be revoked for non-conformity to the application
location specifications or requirements as well as to non-conformity to an
approved location plan or diagram.
         (c)   Any employee working for an applicant permitted as an employer
under this section above may be denied the right to solicit under such permit,
or such rights may be suspended or terminated, under the same circumstances and
procedures which apply to the holder of the permit. Revocation or suspension of
an employer’s permit terminates all employee permits.
         (d)   A permit may be suspended or revoked for not complying with the
requirements of this section or any other ordinances or laws.
      (8)   Appeal of permit revocation, suspension or denial.
         (a)   The notice of revocation, suspension or denial of a permit shall
include the procedure for appealing the suspension, revocation or denial.
         (b)   If a city official revokes, suspends or denies a mobile food
vendor permit, the holder or applicant of the permit which has been revoked,
suspended or denied, shall have the right of appeal to the City Manager or
designee by submitting an appeal in writing to the Health Director within ten
business days of the revocation, suspension or denial.
         (c)   Pending action on the appeal, a permit which has been revoked or
suspended shall be considered revoked or suspended.
         (d)   If a written appeal is not submitted within the ten business
days of revocation, suspension or denial, of if the appeal is denied, the
permit shall hence be considered revoked, suspended or denied.
      (9)   Reapplication after revocation, suspension or denial of permit. If
a mobile food vendor or applicant is not in compliance with this section or any
other ordinance, law or the approved vendor application, the following action
will be taken:
         (a)   First violation: a warning may be issued, or the permit may be
revoked or suspended and the vendor may become ineligible for a new or reissued
permit for 90 consecutive days;
         (b)   Second violation: permit will be revoked and the vendor may
become ineligible for a new or reissued permit for 90 consecutive days;
         (c)   Third violation: permit will be revoked and the vendor will
become ineligible for new or reissued permit for one year; and
         (d)   If an applicant’s permit has been denied and the appeal is
denied, the applicant may not reapply for 90 consecutive days.
   (C)   Zoning and location restrictions.
      (1)   Distance regulations.
         (a)   No mobile food vendor shall conduct business within any Single-
Family Residential or Agricultural Zoning District unless otherwise approved in
writing by the City Manager.
         (b)   A mobile food vendor may not be located within 100 feet of the
primary entrance of an open and operating fixed-location food service
establishment.
      (2)   Stationary locations. A mobile food vendor shall not conduct sales
at a stationary location:
         (a)   In congested areas where the operation impedes vehicular or
pedestrian traffic;
         (b)   Between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
         (c)   For a duration exceeding eight continuous hours per location per
day; and
         (d)   For a duration exceeding 30 minutes on any public street.
      (3)   Location regulations.
         (a)   No mobile food vendor shall be located on any private property
without written permission to do so and must comply if asked to leave by the
property owner or city official. A notarized copy of the written permission to
operate in a specific location signed by the private property owner shall be
kept within the mobile vending unit at all times.
         (b)   No person shall distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter or
cast any commercial handbill.
         (c)   No person shall distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter or
cast any commercial handbill upon any premises if requested by the property
owner or city not to do so or if there is placed near or at the entrance
thereof a sign bearing the words “no advertisement”.
         (d)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any item upon any
premises if requested by the property owner or city official not to do so, or
if there is placed at or near the entrance thereof a sign bearing the words “no
peddlers or vendors”, “no trespassing” or “no solicitors”.
   (D)   Mobile food vendor requirements. The following regulations shall apply
to mobile food vendors within any zoning district.
      (1)   Each unit shall be equipped with a portable trash receptacle and
shall be responsible for proper disposal of solid waste and waste water in the
sanitation facility legally accessed by the food service establishment. All
disturbed areas must be cleaned following each stop to a minimum 20 feet of the
sales location.
      (2)   Mobile food vendor may not have a drive-through.
      (3)   No sales are allowed within public park facilities while park
concession units are operating.
      (4)   Continuous music or repetitive sounds shall not project from the
mobile unit.
      (5)   A five-foot clear space can be maintained around the mobile food
vending unit.
      (6)   The mobile unit will be subject to inspections upon permit
application through the Code Enforcement and Health Department and the Fire
Marshal and may be subject to random inspection and upon reissuance of the
permit.
      (7)   A “no smoking” sign must be posted next to the order window or
area.
      (8)   A tagged fire extinguisher shall be kept accessible as directed by
the city’s Fire Marshal or designee.
      (9)   An extinguishing vent hood, Type 1 or other if approved by the
city’s Fire Marshal, shall be required when the cooking process produces grease
laden particles within the mobile unit. Said hood shall require testing in the
presence of a City Fire Marshal designee.
      (10)   Mobile units must completely retain their mobility at all times.
      (11)   A mobile food unit does not mean a stand or a booth.
      (12)   A roadside food vendor is classified as a mobile food unit.
   (E)   Offenses and regulations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any individual as the agent or employee of
another regulated under this section to sell edible goods in the city unless
its principal or employer has received a permit under this section.
      (2)   A permit issued under this section is not transferable.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for an individual to sell edible goods while
displaying a valid permit issued by the city in the name of another individual,
organization or entity.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any individual directly or through an
agent or employee to sell goods within the corporate limits of the city after
the expiration of the permit issued by the city under this section.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for an individual directly or through an agent
or employee to misrepresent on the permit affidavit any acts that are regulated
under this section.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any individual directly or through his or
her agents or employees to represent that the issuance of a permit by the city
constitutes the city’s endorsement or approval of the product for sale.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful to operate a mobile food vendor operation that
is not in compliance with the state’s Food Establishment Rules as amended from
time to time.
   (F)   Exemptions. Individuals selling only non-refrigerated farm products in
an unrefined state shall be considered as a mobile food vendor, as defined by
this section, but shall be exempt from the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 8-16-2016; Ord. 2017-09, passed 6-14-2017) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished
by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   A violation of §
114.21(E) of this chapter is a Class C misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 8-16-2016; Ord. 2017-09, passed 6-14-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to prescribe penalties for violation of ordinances and
code, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 54.001
CHAPTER 115: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
115.01   Purpose and intent
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Signage
   
115.04   Zoning Ordinance applicability
   
115.05   Operator’s permit; term
   
115.06   Maximum number of garage sales
   
115.07   Permits issued in violation
   
115.08   Permit application; information; fees
   
115.09   Hours of operation
   
115.10   Display of sale items
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   (1)   As a matter of public policy, the City Council aims to preserve,
enhance and perpetuate the economic value and the residential character of the
city’s neighborhoods in part by regulating garage sales.
      (2)   Such preservation promotes and protects the health, safety,
comfort, economic investment and general welfare of the people living in the
city.
   (B)   More specifically, this chapter is intended to achieve the following
goals:
      (1)   To protect residential areas from the semi-permanent encroachment
of commercial uses which induces an incidental influx of traffic and increased
on-street parking;
      (2)   To protect and magnify the aesthetic qualities of neighborhoods;
and
      (3)   To ensure the harmonious and orderly operation of garage sales in
residential areas.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-22-2008)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE OPERATOR. Any person with a permit issued by the city to operate
a garage sale.
   GARAGE SALE PERMIT. A permit issued by the city for the purposes of
residents to display and offer for sale, under the terms and conditions of this
chapter, their personal disposable items.
   GARAGE SALES. All general sales, open or advertised to the public, conducted
from or on a residential premises (single-family, duplexes or apartments) in
any residential zone for the purpose of disposing of tangible personal
property. See definition below of PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, partnerships, voluntary associations and
corporations.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property, which is owned, utilized and maintained by an
individual or members of his or her residence, and acquired in the normal
course of living in or maintaining a residence. Merchandise, new or seemingly
new, acquired for resale at a garage sale or obtained by consignment for sale
at a garage sale is prohibited. There shall be no sale of prepared food items
such as burgers, tacos and the like.
   RESIDENCE. Any single-family structure or multi-family complex, which may be
owned, rented or leased.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-22-2008)
§ 115.03 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   All signs advertising garage sales shall be limited to one on-premises
sign, with two sides only, that does not exceed four square feet on each side.
In cases of double frontage lots, as defined in
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances, one additional on-premises sign can be
permitted on the second front, pursuant to the size requirements cited above.
Corner lots, as defined in
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances, shall not be considered double frontage
lots.
   (B)   Garage sale signs shall be temporary signs in nature only. Garage sale
signs shall only be displayed concurrently with an officially authorized garage
sale and shall be immediately removed thereafter.
   (C)   The person or persons exercising ownership or leasehold rights over
property on which a garage sale is held or advertised to be held shall be
presumed to have placed and/or consented to said sign, which identifies the
person’s address or location at which the garage sale is to be held.
   (D)   No person shall attach, in any way, posters, notices or advertisements
to utility poles, meter posts, utility devices, trees, landscaping features or
any other private or public improvement along any street within the city.
   (E)   Signs must be staked on the garage sale operator’s private property
(not closer than five feet to the front or side property lines) and cannot be
attached to utility poles, streetlight standards or other public facilities.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-22-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 ZONING ORDINANCE APPLICABILITY.
   All permit requirements shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter,
as well as
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-22-2008)
§ 115.05 OPERATOR’S PERMIT; TERM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or participate in the
operation of a garage sale without first obtaining the proper permit from the
city.
   (B)   All permits covered by this chapter shall continue in full force from
the date specified on the permit. Each garage sale shall be valid for either
four consecutive days or two consecutive Saturday/ Sunday weekends (equating to
four total days).
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-22-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF GARAGE SALES.
   The city shall issue one permit for each garage sale. Each residence or
residential lot is allowed four garage sales per calendar year per location not
to exceed one garage sale per three-month interval.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-22-2008)
§ 115.07 PERMITS ISSUED IN VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any garage sale permit incorrectly and/or inadvertently issued shall
be null and void.
   (B)   A voided garage sale permit shall not constitute validity for the
operator to conduct a garage sale; whereafter, no garage sale shall be deemed
authorized until a garage sale permit shall be validly issued.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-22-2008)
§ 115.08 PERMIT APPLICATION; INFORMATION; FEES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   An application for a garage sale permit shall be fully completed
upon forms provided by the city.
      (2)   The application will contain all information necessary to fully
advise the city of the date(s), location (street address), hours of operation
of the garage sale and any other information that may be reasonably required.
      (3)   Only the owner or lessee of the residential property upon which the
garage sale will be conducted may obtain such permit.
      (4)   Before such permit shall be issued, the application shall provide
proof of address (driver’s license, utility bills or other identification) and
any other pertinent information as may be reasonably required by the city. Upon
verification and full compliance with the provisions contained herein and
payment of the proper fee, a garage sale permit will be issued by the city.
      (5)   By making application for such garage sale permit, accepting said
permit and conducting such sale, the owner or lessee of the property to whom
such permit is granted, authorizes any Code Enforcement Officer of the city to
enter upon the property during reasonable hours for the purpose of determining
that such sale is being fully conducted in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Permit number and garage sale information.
      (1)   Each permit issued shall bear the street address of the residence
where the sale will be located, the date(s) when the garage sale will be held
and any other information deemed necessary by the city.
      (2)   The permit must be clearly displayed and visible for a distance of
six feet from the curb line or nearest edge of paved portion of the street or
right-of-way or be immediately available for inspection at the garage sale
location.
   (C)   Fee. No permit shall be issued unless the applicant has first paid the
garage sale operator’s fee of $5 for each permit obtained.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-22-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   An applicant having a valid permit shall operate no earlier than 6:00 a.m.
and no later than 9:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-22-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.10 DISPLAY OF SALE ITEMS.
   Personal property shall be exhibited or displayed on the private property
where the residence is located, not closer than five feet to the front or side
property lines, and shall not be placed in the public right-of-way. If the
residence fronts a private street, the display of personal items shall be no
closer than ten feet to the street’s curb or, in the absence of a curb, ten
feet to the edge of asphalt.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-22-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, participate in or
recklessly allow to be operated upon property owned or controlled by that
person a garage sale in a manner not in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. Each day a documented violation is committed or permitted; to continue
shall constitute a separate offense. The city reserves the right to immediately
revoke a garage sale permit upon documentation of the owner’s, lessee’s or
garage sale operator’s violation of any of the regulations contained herein,
including, but not limited to, the display and/or sale of new or seemingly new
items to be resold, prolonging the hours of operation, placing signs in
prohibited areas. If a garage sale permit is revoked for documented self-
inflicted violations, there will be no reimbursement of paid fees.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified, each violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $25 for the first two
convictions and not to exceed $100 for each conviction thereafter. Every
calendar year shall default the fine process to its inception (i.e., $25
initial fines followed by the $100 fine for each conviction thereafter).
   (C)   Failure of a garage sale operator to remove any advertising sign upon
expiration of the garage sale permit shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $25 per sign/per day for each day past the deadline for removing signs.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 7-22-2008)
CHAPTER 116: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Permit requirement; granting
   
116.04   General terms
   
116.05   Compensation
   
116.06   Audits
   
116.07   Construction and maintenance of facilities
   
116.08   Relation and removal of facilities
   
116.09   Insurance requirements
   
116.10   Indemnification
   
116.11   Administration
   
116.12   Future contingency
   
116.13   Governing law
   
116.14   Termination
   
116.15   Unauthorized use of rights-of-way
   
116.16   Non-discrimination and competitive neutrality
   
116.17   Permit; issuance and effective date
Cross-reference:
   Telecommunications franchises, see
TSO Table III
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Assist in the management of the rights-of-way;
   (B)   Govern the use and occupancy of the rights-of-way by
telecommunications service providers; and
   (C)   Secure fair and reasonable compensation for the use and occupancy of
the rights-of-way by telecommunications service providers in a non-
discriminatory and competitively neutral manner.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS LINE.
      (1)   Each switched transmission path of the transmission media within
the rights-of-way extended to the end-user customer’s premises network
interface within the city that allows delivery of telecommunications service;
      (2)   Each loop provided as an unbundled network element to a person
pursuant to an agreement under § 252 of the Federal Telecommunications Act of
1996; and
      (3)   Each termination point of a non-switched telephone circuit
consisting of transmission media connecting specific locations identified by,
and provided to, the end user for the delivery of non-switched
telecommunications service within the city.
   CABLE SERVICE. As defined in the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as
amended, 47 U.S.C. §§ 532 et seq.
   CITY. The City of Palmview, Texas.
   DIRECTION OF THE CITY. All ordinances, laws, rules, resolutions and
regulations of the city that are not inconsistent with this chapter and that
are now in force or may hereafter be passed and adopted.
   FACILITIES. Any and all of the duct spaces, manholes, poles, conduits,
underground and overhead passageways, and other equipment, structures, plant
and appurtenances and all associated transmission media used for the provision
of telecommunications service.
   LINE FEE. A monthly fee to be applied to each access line for the
calculation of the total amount to be paid to the city as a rights-of-way fee.
   PERMIT HOLDER. Any telecommunications service provider issued a permit
pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
   PERSON. A natural person (an individual), corporation, company, association,
partnership, firm, limited liability company, joint venture, joint stock
company or association and other such entity.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A public utility, as that term is used in the Public Utility
Regulatory Act of 1995, Tex. Utilities Code § 11.004, including municipally-
owned and/or operated utilities.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. All present and future public streets, avenues, highways,
alleys, sidewalks, boulevards, drives, tunnels, easements, bridges and other
such similar passageways, thoroughfares and public ways within the city.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY FEE. The total amount paid to the city on a quarterly basis
for the use and occupancy of the rights-of-way.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The transmittal of voice, data, image, graphics
and other communications between or among points by wire, fiber optics or other
similar facilities, as well as the rental, lease or furnishing of the
facilities to accomplish such transmittal, but does not include transmissions
for long distance purposes (interLATA and intraLATA) or any “wireless service”,
as defined by law.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. Any person that supplies
telecommunications service to others within the corporate limits of the city in
exchange for money or other value.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS UTILITY. As used in the Public Utility Regulatory Act of
1995, Tex. Utilities Code § 51.002(11).
   TRANSMISSION MEDIA. Any and all of the cables, fibers, wires or other
physical devices owned, maintained or placed by a permit holder to transmit
and/or receive communication signals, whether analog, digital or of other
characteristics, and whether for voice, data or other purposes.
   USE AND OCCUPANCY. The permit holder’s acquisition, installation,
construction, reconstruction, maintenance, repair, control or operation of any
facilities within the rights-of-way for any purpose whatsoever.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENT; GRANTING.
   (A)   Any person that owns, places or maintains facilities within the
rights-of-way shall first obtain a permit pursuant to the terms of this
chapter.
   (B)   Subject to the restrictions set forth herein, the city under this
chapter shall issue permits to telecommunications service providers for the
purpose of regulating the use and occupancy of the public rights-of-way in the
city for the provision of access lines.
   (C)   By acceptance of the permit, the permit holder agrees to abide by the
reasonable terms of this chapter in all its operations within the city,
including all operations and facilities and transmission media used in whole or
in part in the provision of access lines in any newly annexed areas, as
specified in §
116.05(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.04 GENERAL TERMS.
   (A)   No rights agreed to in this chapter by the city shall be exclusive and
the city reserves the right to grant franchises, licenses, easements or
permissions to use the rights-of-way within the city to any person as the city,
in its sole discretion, may determine to be in the public interest.
   (B)   A permit holder is not authorized to provide cable service as a cable
operator in the city under this chapter, but must first obtain a franchise from
the city for that purpose, under such terms and conditions as may be required
by law.
   (C)   The initial term of each permit issued under this chapter shall be
three years from the date of issuance, unless terminated earlier by mutual
written agreement of the city and the permit holder or pursuant to law. At the
expiration of the initial permit period, the permit shall be automatically
extended for successive periods of one year, unless written notice of intent to
terminate the permit is given not less than 90 days prior to the termination of
the then current period by the city to permit holder. When such notice is
given, the permit shall terminate at the expiration of the then current period.
The permit holder shall provide notice of the impending automatic renewal at
least 120 days prior to the end of the then current period; provided, however,
that, permit holder’s failure to provide notice shall not invalidate the
automatic renewal of this chapter.
   (D)   The rights granted by this chapter inure to the benefit of the permit
holder licensed hereunder. This chapter rights granted by permit shall not be
assigned, transferred or sold to another by the permit holder without the
express written consent of the city. For the purposes of this section,
ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFER OR SALE means a change of operating control of the permit
holder, expressly excepting an assignment or transfer to entities that control,
are controlled by or are under common control with permit holder. Any such
consent by the city shall not be withheld unreasonably.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.05 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Rights-of-way fee. The permit holder shall pay to the city a rights-
of-way fee that is calculated as of month-end by applying the appropriate line
fee to each access line owned, placed or maintained by permit holder that is
activated for use by an end-user or for another telecommunications service
provider that uses permit holder’s services or facilities for the provision of
telecommunications service within the city. The line fee to be applied to each
access line on a monthly basis shall be:
 
Access Line     Monthly Fee per Access Line
Residential     $0.75
Non-residential $2
 
   (B)   Number of access lines. Subject to city’s agreement not to disclose
this information, each permit holder must provide annually, within a reasonable
time after receipt of the city’s written request, a report showing the number
of each type of access line owned or placed and maintained by permit holder
within the city that are activated for end-user customers and other
telecommunications service providers at month’s end for each of the preceding
12 months. The city agrees that the report shall be used solely for the purpose
of verifying the number of the permit holder’s access lines within the city
that are activated for end-user customers and telecommunications service
providers. Upon written request, the permit holder shall verify the information
in the report and, upon reasonable advance notice, produce to the city and
permit inspection by the city of all non-customer-specific records and
documents reasonably calculated to verify the information. For purposes of
payment of fees for use of the rights-of-way, lines terminating at customer’s
premises that are billed as “lifeline”, “tel-assistance” or other service that
is required to be similarly discounted pursuant to state or federal law or
regulation for the purpose of advancing universal service to the economically
disadvantaged shall not be included in the lines upon which the fee is
calculated.
   (C)   Annexation and disannexation. Within 30 days following the date of the
passage of any action effecting the annexation of any property to or the
disannexation of any property from the city’s corporate boundaries, the city
agrees to furnish permit holder written notice of the action and an accurate
map of the city’s corporate boundaries showing, if available, street names and
number details. For the purpose of compensating the city under this chapter, a
permit holder shall start including or excluding access lines within the
affected area in the permit holder’s count of access lines on the effective
date designated by the Comptroller of Public Accounts of the state for the
imposition of state local sales and use taxes; but in no case less than 30 days
from the date the permit holder is notified by the city of the annexation or
disannexation.
   (D)   Confidential records. If the permit holder notifies the city of the
confidential nature of any information, reports, documents or writings, the
city agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the information, reports,
documents and writings to the extent permitted by law. Upon receipt by the city
of requests for the permit holder’s confidential information, reports,
documents or writings, the city shall notify the permit holder of the request
in writing by facsimile transmission. The city shall request an attorney
general’s opinion before disclosing any confidential information, reports,
documents or writings and will furnish the permit holder with copies of
Attorney General opinion requests it makes pertaining to the permit holder’s
confidential information, reports, documents or writings. Upon request by the
city, the permit holder shall provide assistance in preparing and submitting
the request for an Attorney General’s opinion.
   (E)   No other fees. The payments due hereunder shall be in lieu of any
permit, license, approval, inspection or other similar fees or charges,
including, but not limited to, all general business license fees customarily
assessed by the city for the use of the rights-of-way against persons operating
businesses similar to that of the permit holder. Further, such rights-of-way
fee shall constitute full compensation to the city for all of permit holder’s
facilities located within the rights-of-way, including interoffice- transport
and other transmission media that do not terminate at an end-user customer’s
network interface device, even though those types of lines are not used in the
calculation of the rights-of-way fee.
   (F)   Timing of payment. The permit holder shall remit the line fee on a
quarterly basis. The payment shall be due on the forty-fifth day following the
close of each calendar quarter for which the payment is calculated.
   (G)   Uncollectibles. The permit holder has a statutory right to pass
through to its customers on a pro rata basis any compensation paid to the city
for access to the rights-of-way. Any other provision of this chapter
notwithstanding, the permit holder shall not be obligated to pay the city for
any access lines for which revenues remain uncollectible.
   (H)   Facilities provided to other telecommunications service providers. To
the extent allowed by applicable state and federal law, any telecommunications
service providers that purchase unbundled network elements or other facilities
for the purpose of rebundling those facilities to create telecommunications
service for sale to persons within the city shall pay to the city a rights-of-
way fee that is calculated as of month-end by applying the appropriate line
fee, as specified in division (A) above, to each access line created by
rebundling services or facilities. Such direct payment to the city is necessary
because it is only the person creating the services for resale that will be
able to determine the number of access lines being provided, so that the
rights-of-way fee imposed herein can be applied on a non-discriminatory basis
to all telecommunications service providers that sell telecommunications
service within the city. Other provisions of this chapter notwithstanding, the
permit holder shall not include in its monthly count of access lines any
unbundled network elements or other facilities provided to other
telecommunications service providers for rebundling into telecommunications
services, if the telecommunications service provider that is rebundling those
facilities for resale has provided a signed statement to the permit holder that
the telecommunications service provider is paying the access line fees
applicable to those rebundled services directly to the city. If permit holder
provides a copy of the signed statement to the city, then permit holder is
absolved of all responsibility for the line fees payable on the
telecommunications service, unbundled network elements and other facilities
rebundled for the creation of telecommunications service for sale within the
city.
   (I)   Fee application to leased facilities. Pursuant to Tex. Utilities Code
§ 54.206, a permit holder may collect the line fee imposed by the city pursuant
to this chapter through a pro rata charge to the customers in the boundaries of
the city, including any other persons who are leasing, reselling or otherwise
using the permit holder’s access lines to provide telecommunications service.
With respect to any person leasing, reselling or otherwise using a permit
holder’s access lines, if a permit holder believes it does not have sufficient
information to determine the appropriate rate to apply, then the higher line
fee shall apply until such time as the person using the access lines provides
to the permit holder sufficient written information to determine the correct
line fee. If a person provides sufficient written information for the
application of the line fee, permit holders may bill the person on the basis of
the information provided. The permit holder shall provide to the city any
information regarding the locations to which it is providing service or
facilities for use by another person for the provision of telecommunications
service to end-user customers, so long as city first obtains written permission
of such other person for permit holder to provide the information to the city.
Any other provision of this chapter notwithstanding, however, a permit holder
shall not be liable for underpayment of line fees resulting from the permit
holder’s reliance upon the written information provided by any person that uses
the permit holder’s service or facilities for the provision of
telecommunications service to end-user customers.
   (J)   Public street crossing fee.
      (1)   Any person whose facilities are located within the city but are not
used to provide telecommunications service within the city by means of access
lines upon which the line fees are applicable shall pay the city an annual
public street crossing fee of:
         (a)   Two dollars and fifty cents per linear foot for each diameter
inch or less of underground conduit or wire and for each 0.250-diameter inch or
less of aerial wire that is in the public rights-of-way per annum; and
         (b)   One thousand dollars for the first street crossing and $250 for
every street crossing thereafter.
      (2)   The public street crossing fee shall be due on July 15 of every
year, prorated as applicable. A report as required by the City Manager shall be
provided with each annual payment showing the calculation of the payment,
including the length of the network and whether it is overhead or underground,
as applicable, and number and name of each street crossing. The purpose of the
public street crossing fee is to compensate the city for the reasonable rental
value of the rights-of-way and to recover the administrative cost in monitoring
and enforcing the provisions of this chapter. Each municipal permit ordinance
requiring payment under this section shall provide that such fee may be
adjusted once every two years to properly reflect the reasonable rental value
of the rights-of-way and administrative cost to the city.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.06 AUDITS.
   (A)   On 30 days’ notice to a permit holder, the city may audit a permit
holder. Without in any manner limiting the city’s right to demand compliance
with a permit and/or limiting the time period for which the city may demand
and/or sue for payment of the appropriate fee, an audit pursuant to this
section shall be limited to not more than the current year, plus five years
preceding the date the audit is commenced; provided, however, that, this
provision shall not be considered a waiver of state law pertaining to the
applicable statute of limitations with respect to the enforcement of this
chapter; and, provided further that, this section may not be used to limit the
scope of any lawsuit or enforcement of this chapter or discovery related
thereto. The permit holder shall furnish all relevant information to
demonstrate its compliance with the permit and/or other provisions of this
chapter; provided that, auditors assure the privacy of customer specific
records and proprietary or market sensitive data.
   (B)   A permit holder shall keep complete and accurate books of accounts and
records of business and operations in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles for a period of five years. If the Federal Communications
Commission requires, a permit holder shall use the system of accounts and the
forms of books, accounts, records and memoranda prescribed in 47 C.F.R. part 32
or its successor. The city may require the keeping of additional records or
accounts that are reasonably necessary for purposes of identifying, accounting
for and reporting the number of access lines used to deliver telecommunication
services. The city may examine the permit holder’s books and records, expressly
excluding any records, documents or other writings the disclosure of which is
prohibited by state or federal law, including the Electronic Communications
Privacy Act, 18 U.S.C. §§ 2701 et seq.
   (C)   A permit holder shall make available to the city or the city’s
designated agent for the city or its agent to examine, audit, review and copy,
in the city upon written request, its books and records including papers,
books, accounts, documents, maps, plans and other records pertaining to a
permit. A permit holder shall fully cooperate in making records available and
otherwise assist the city’s agent. The city’s agent shall not inspect or copy
or otherwise demand production of customer specific information or any records,
documents or other writings the disclosure of which is prohibited by state or
federal law, including the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, 18 U.S.C. §§
2701 et seq.
   (D)   The city may, at any time, make inquiries pertaining to the permit
holder’s performance of the terms and conditions of the permit. The permit
holder shall respond to such inquiries on a timely basis.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall be continuing, shall survive the
termination of the permit granted under this chapter, and shall extend beyond
the term of the permit, and the city shall have all the rights described in
this section for so long as the permit holder is providing any
telecommunications service within the city.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.07 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   The location and route of all facilities and transmission media placed
and constructed in the rights-of-way shall be subject to the lawful, reasonable
and proper control and direction of the city.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to require or
permit the attachment on or placement in the permit holder’s facilities of any
electric light or power wires or communications facilities or other systems not
owned by the permit holder. If the city desires to attach or place electric
light or power wires, communications facilities or other similar systems or
facilities in or on the permit holder’s facilities, then a further separate,
non-contingent agreement with the permit holder shall be required. Nothing
contained in this chapter shall obligate the permit holder to exercise or
restrict the permit holder from exercising its right to enter voluntarily into
pole attachment, pole usage, joint ownership or other wire space or facilities
agreements with any person authorized to operate as a public utility or a
telecommunications utility or authorized to offer cable service within the
city.
   (C)   The surface of the rights-of-way disturbed by the permit holder in the
construction or maintenance of its telecommunications system shall be restored
within a reasonable time after the completion of the work to as good a
condition as before the commencement of the work. The permit holder shall
endeavor to minimize disruptions to the efficient use of the rights-of-way by
pedestrian and vehicular traffic and rights-of-way shall not be blocked for a
longer period than shall be reasonably necessary to execute all construction,
maintenance and/or repair work.
   (D)   Upon request, the permit holder shall remove or raise or lower its
aerial wires, fiber or cables temporarily to permit the moving of houses or
other bulky structures. The expense of such temporary rearrangements shall be
paid by the party or parties requesting them, and the permit holder may require
payment in advance. The permit holder shall be given not less than 48 hours’
advance notice to arrange for such temporary rearrangements.
   (E)   The permit holder, its contractors and agents have the right,
permission and license to trim trees upon and overhanging the rights-of-way to
prevent trees from coming in contact with the permit holder’s facilities and
transmission media. When directed by the city, tree trimming shall be done
under the supervision and direction of the city or under the supervision of the
city’s delegated representative.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.08 RELOCATION AND REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   In accordance with Tex. Utilities Code § 54.203(c), upon 30 days’
notice by the city, the permit holder shall begin relocation of its facilities
within the rights-of-way at its own expense to permit the widening or
straightening of streets. The notice by the city shall include a specification
of the new location for the permit holder’s facilities along the rights-of-way.
   (B)   The city retains the right to move any facilities within the rights-
of-way to cure or otherwise address a public health or safety emergency. The
city shall cooperate to the extent possible with the permit holder in such
instances to assure continuity of service and to afford to the permit holder
the opportunity to make such relocation itself.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.09 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A permit holder shall obtain and maintain insurance in the amounts
prescribed by the city with an insurance company licensed to do business in the
state acceptable to the city throughout the term of a permit issued pursuant to
this chapter. A permit holder shall furnish the city with proof of insurance at
the time of filing the acceptance of a permit. The city reserves the right to
review the insurance requirements during the effective period of a permit, and
to reasonably adjust insurance coverage and limits when the city determines
that changes in statutory law, court decisions or the claims history of the
industry or the permit holder require adjustment of the coverage. For purposes
of this section, the city will accept certificates of self-insurance issued by
the state providing the same coverage. In the alternative, for types of
coverage for which the state does not issue letters, the city will accept a
letter from an authorized company representative that evidences the same
coverage.
   (B)   The city may, on request and at no cost to the city, receive copies of
certificates of insurance evidencing the coverage required by this section. The
city may request the deletion, revision or modification of particular policy
terms, conditions, limitations or exclusions, unless the policy provisions are
established by a law or regulation binding the city, the permit holder or the
underwriter. If the city requests a deletion, revision or modification, a
permit holder shall exercise reasonable efforts to pay for and to accomplish
the change.
   (C)   An insurance certificate shall contain the following required
provisions:
      (1)   Name of the city and its officers, employees, board members and
elected representatives as additional insureds for all applicable coverage;
      (2)   Provide for 30 days’ notice to the city for cancellation, non-
renewal or material change;
      (3)   Provide that notice of claims shall be provided to the city by
certified mail; and
      (4)   Provide that the terms of the permit which impose obligations on
the permit holder concerning liability, duty and standard of care, including
the indemnity section, are included in the policy and that the risks are
insured within the policy terms and conditions.
   (D)   A permit holder shall file and maintain proof of insurance with the
city during the term of a permit or an extension or renewal. An insurance
certificate obtained in compliance with this section is subject to city
approval. The city may require the certificate to be changed to reflect
changing liability limits. A permit holder shall immediately advise the City
Attorney of actual or potential litigation that may develop that may affect an
existing carrier’s obligation to defend and indemnify.
   (E)   An insurer has no right of recovery against the city. The required
insurance policies shall protect the permit holder and the city. The insurance
shall be primary coverage for losses covered by the policies.
   (F)   The policy clause “other insurance” shall not apply to the city if the
city is an insured under the policy.
   (G)   (1)   The permit holder shall pay premiums and assessments. A company
which issues an insurance policy has no recourse against the city for payment
of a premium or assessment.
      (2)   Insurance policies obtained by a permit holder must provide that
the issuing company waives all right of recovery by way of subrogation against
the city in connection with damage covered by the policy.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.10 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The permit holder shall indemnify and hold the city harmless from all costs,
expenses and damages to persons or property arising directly or indirectly from
the construction, maintenance, repair or operation of the permit holder’s
facilities located within the rights-of-way found to be caused solely by the
negligence of the permit holder. Expenses shall include any reasonable and
necessary attorney’s fees and court costs. The city shall give the permit
holder prompt written notice of any claim for which the city seeks
indemnification. The permit holder shall have the right to investigate, defend
and compromise any such claim. This provision is not intended to create a cause
of action or liability for the benefit of third parties, but rather this
provision is solely for the benefit of the permit holder and the city.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.11 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The city may, at any time, make reasonable inquiries pertaining to the
terms, conditions, rights and obligations of this chapter and the permit holder
shall respond to such inquiries on a timely basis.
   (B)   Copies of petitions, applications and reports submitted by the permit
holder to the Federal Communications Commission or the Public Utility
Commission of the state shall be provided to the city upon specific request.
   (C)   After reasonable notice to the permit holder, the city may establish,
to the extent permitted by law, such reasonable and non-discriminatory rules
and regulations as may be appropriate for the administration of this chapter
and the construction of the permit holder’s facilities in the rights-of-way, so
long as those rules and regulations are competitively neutral.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.12 FUTURE CONTINGENCY.
   (A)   In the event this chapter or any tariff or other provision that
authorizes permit holders to recover the fee provided for in this chapter,
becomes unlawful or is declared or determined by a judicial or administrative
authority exercising its jurisdiction to be excessive, unenforceable, void or
illegal, in whole or in part, then the city and all permit holders shall
negotiate a new compensation arrangement that is in compliance with the
authority’s decision.
   (B)   Unless explicitly prohibited, the new compensation arrangement shall
provide the city with a level of compensation comparable to that set forth in
this chapter, as long as that compensation is recoverable by permit holders in
a manner permitted by law for the unexpired portion of the term of this
chapter.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.13 GOVERNING LAW.
   This chapter shall be construed in accordance with the city code in effect
on the date of passage of this chapter to the extent that such code is not in
conflict with or in violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States
or the state.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.14 TERMINATION.
   (A)   The city shall reserve the right to terminate any permit and any
rights or privileges granted under this chapter in the event of a material
breach of the terms and conditions of the permit or of this chapter, subject to
a 30-day written notice and the opportunity to cure the breach during that 30-
day period.
   (B)   Material breaches of a permit specifically include, but are not
limited to, continuing violations of §§
116.05 and
116.07 of this chapter, and the furnishing of any service requiring municipal
authority not authorized by the permit.
   (C)   A material breach shall not be deemed to have occurred if the
violation occurs without the fault of a permit holder or occurs as a result of
circumstances beyond its control.
   (D)   (1)   A termination shall be declared only by a written decision of
the City Council after an appropriate public proceeding before the City
Council, which shall accord the permit holder due process and full opportunity
to be heard and to respond to any notice of grounds to terminate. All notice
requirements shall be met by giving the permit holder at least 15 days’ prior
written notice of any public hearing concerning the proposed termination of its
permit.
      (2)   Such notice shall state the grounds for termination alleged by
city.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.15 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly excavate or occupy
the rights-of-way that has not been authorized by the city in accordance with
the terms of this chapter and a permit issued hereunder.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any facilities on, in or
over the rights-of-way, city property, city structures or utility
infrastructure unless expressly allowed under this chapter or other applicable
terms of a city ordinance.
   (C)   Such unlawful excavation, occupation or placement as described herein
may be challenged by the city in a court of appropriate jurisdiction and
appropriate compensation, including attorney fees, may be sought.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.16 NON-DISCRIMINATION AND COMPETITIVE NEUTRALITY.
   The city hereby recognizes that it has the legal duty to obligate, on a
going-forward basis, all permit holders to abide by the same terms and
conditions imposed by this chapter, including, but not limited to, the payment
of the line fee, and to apply substantively the same requirements governing
their use and occupancy of the rights-of-way. This provision, however, is not
intended and should not be construed to extend the obligations and duties of
the city under applicable laws.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 116.17 PERMIT; ISSUANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Any permit holder that owns facilities already located within the
rights-of-way on the date this chapter is enacted is hereby granted a permit
hereunder; however, within 30 days from the effective date of this chapter all
such permit holders shall provide to the city a notice of pre-existing
facilities. All prospective permit holders shall file a permit application form
at least 30 days before placing any facilities in the rights-of-way. A permit
application form will not be accepted and a permit granted unless the applicant
provides on that form the name and address of the person to whom notices
hereunder are to be sent, the date on which the applicant expects to begin
providing service within the city, a 24-hour per day contact number for the
applicant, and the certificate number of the applicant’s certificate issued by
the Public Utility Commission of the state or a notarized statement from a
principal or officer of the applicant that no certification by the Public
Utility Commission is required for the type of service to be offered by
applicant.
   (B)   The city shall deliver a properly certified copy of this chapter to
the permit holder, along with a permit hereunder, within 14 days after receipt
of the notice of pre-existing facilities or the permit application form. The
effective date for any permit shall be the date of issuance, however, the
assessment of the line fee shall not begin until the first day of the second
month after the date of issuance of the permit. Permit holders with pre-
existing facilities may continue the pre-existing compensation arrangement
until the first day of the second month following the issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
CHAPTER 117: PEDDLERS AND MARKETS
Section
General Provisions
   
117.01   Definition
   
117.02   Exceptions
   
117.03   Refusing to leave
   
117.04   Use of public places
   
117.05   Entrance to premises restricted
   
117.06   Misrepresentation
   
117.07   Hours of operation
   
117.08   Warning lights on vending vehicles
   
117.09   Markets
Permit Requirements
   
117.20   Permit required
   
117.21   Application
   
117.22   Driver’s license
   
117.23   False information
   
117.24   Fingerprints and photographs
   
117.25   Fees
   
117.26   Bond required
   
117.27   Service of process
   
117.28   Issuance
   
117.29   Limitations
   
117.30   Contents of permit
   
117.31   Display
   
117.32   Duration
   
117.33   Revocation
Cross-reference:
   Food Establishments; Mobile Food Units, see
Ch. 114
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 117.01 DEFINITION.
   (A)   The word PEDDLER, as used in this chapter, shall mean any person,
whether a resident of the city or not, traveling from house to house, or from
street to street, or in any single location, for the purpose of selling or
soliciting for sale, good, wares, merchandise or services, other than
agricultural products produced or processed in the state; and shall also mean
and include any person transacting a temporary business within the city at an
established place of business.
   (B)   The word PEDDLER shall include the terms SOLICITOR, TRANSIENT OR
ITINERANT MERCHANT OR VENDOR or TRANSIENT OR ITINERANT PHOTOGRAPHER.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 117.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Sales made to dealers or permanent merchants by commercial travelers
selling in the usual course of business;
   (B)   Sheriffs, constable, bona fide assignees, receivers or trustees in
bankruptcy or other public officers selling goods, wares and merchandise
according to law;
   (C)   Bona fide residents of the state selling fruits, vegetable, dressed
meats, fowl or farm products which were produced on land within the state,
owned or controlled by such vendor; or
   (D)   Solicitations, sales or distributions made by charitable, educational
or non-profit organization and religious have their principle place of activity
within the city.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 117.03 REFUSING TO LEAVE.
   Any peddler who enters upon premises owned, leased or rented by another and
refuses to leave such premises after having been notified by the owner or
occupant of such premises, or his or her agent, to leave the same and not
return to such premises, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.04 USE OF PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle, market, take orders, solicit monetary or
non-monetary donations, services or offer to sell and peddle or solicit
consumable products or display any goods, wares, merchandise, food,
photographs, newspaper or magazines on any street, intersection, right-of-way,
sidewalk or alley within the limits of the city.
   (A)   Exemption. The following exemption shall apply to any person or
persons peddling or soliciting on any street, intersection, right-of-way,
sidewalk or alley that is/are duly sponsored or employed by any of the
following entities that have their principle place of activity within the city:
      (1)   Government agency;
      (2)   Charitable organization;
      (3)   Volunteer organization;
      (4)   Non-profit organization; and
      (5)   Educational institution.
   (B)   Restrictions. Any person or persons allowed under this exemption must
comply with all of the following restrictions:
      (1)   Have in possession any required permits and proof of sponsorship or
employment with authorized entity;
      (2)   No peddling or solicitation allowed after sunset and before
sunrise;
      (3)   Not obstruct, hinder or impede traffic;
      (4)   Use designated pedestrian crosswalks;
      (5)   Obey traffic signs and signals; and
      (6)   Wear approved reflective safety vests.
   (C)   Possession of permit required. Such permit issued or required under
the provisions of this chapter shall be in the possession of the person or
authorized designee on the premises where the activity is allowed to he held.
   (D)   Additional license required. The granting of a permit as provided for
in this provision shall not excuse any person or persons from applying for and
receiving any other permit required by the city, state or any other regulatory
authority having jurisdiction therefor.
   (E)   Liability waiver/release/indemnity agreement required. Each person
peddling or soliciting within the city limits must sign and have on file with
the city individual waiver of release of liability and indemnity agreement. Any
person under the age of 18 must also have the agreement signed by a consenting
parent or consenting legal guardian.
   (F)   Enforcement. The duly constituted authorities of the city, including
the Police Department, Code Enforcement Officer and others having the duty of
enforcing the ordinances of the city, shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter and prohibit any person or persons to peddle, solicit or conduct
business without full compliance with the terms of this chapter.
   (G)   Appeal of a decision for failure to issue a permit.
      (1)   Provided that, all the information and payment of any required
permit fee is made by the applicant, the City Secretary or his or her designee
shall issue a permit or deny the issuance of a permit within ten business days
after the date of filing an application in compliance with the requirements
therefor. Should the City Secretary or his or her designee refuse to issue the
permit, the applicant will be provided the reasons for such refusal.
      (2)   Any applicant who has been refused a permit by the City Secretary,
or his or her designee, shall have the right to appeal the decision to the City
Manager by filing a written notice of appeal to the City Manager’s office
within ten business days from the date of the receipt of the denial of the
permit. The City Manager shall issue a decision within ten business days from
the date on appeal as perfected by the applicant. The City Manager shall issue
a decision in writing as to whether or not the permit should be issued or the
decision of denial should be upheld and shall give the reasons therefor. Such
notice of the decision of the City Manager shall be mailed or hand-delivered to
the applicant within five business days after the decision of the City Manager
is established. The City Manager is authorized and directed to establish
procedures relating to the consideration of the denial of a permit.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014; Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-1-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.05 ENTRANCE TO PREMISES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to enter upon any private premises when
the same are posted with a sign stating “no peddlers allowed” or other words to
such effect.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.06 MISREPRESENTATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to make false or fraudulent statements
concerning the quality or nature of his or her goods, wares, merchandise or
services for the purpose of inducing another to purchase the same.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to engage in the business of peddler
within the city between the hours of one-half hour before sunset and 8:00 a.m.
the following morning, or at any time on Sundays, except by specific
appointment with or invitation from the prospective customer.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.08 WARNING LIGHTS ON VENDING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Flashing warning lamps required. All vending vehicles which operate
upon and use any of the public streets or ways in city for the purpose of
vending merchandise on said streets such as, but not limited to, ice cream,
candy, sandwiches, drinks or other similar merchandise, shall effective be
required to have installed on and in good operating condition at all times
while vending such merchandise on the public streets or ways some type of
flashing warning lamps as follows.
      (1)   Lamps used to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at
the same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and shall display
simultaneously flashing amber or red lights or any shade of color between white
and amber.
      (2)   The lights used to display such warning to the rear shall be
mounted at the same level as a widely separated laterally as practicable and
shall shoe simultaneously flashing amber or red lights or any shade between
amber and red.
      (3)   These warning lights shall be visible from a distance of not less
than 500 feet during normal atmospheric conditions at night.
   (B)   Police Chief to approve type of light. Said flashing warning light
shall be of a type first approved by the Chief of Police of the city’s Police
Department.
   (C)   Operation of flashing warning lights. Said light shall be turned on
and operating at any and all times when the vehicle on which the light is
located is stopped on any of the public streets or ways in the city and the
owner or operator is at the time engaged in the selling of merchandise, and for
a period of at least one minute prior to coming to a stop and for one minute
after the vehicle again begins to move.
   (D)   Unlawful use of vending vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any owner or
operator of such vending vehicle to engage in the vending of such merchandise
on any of the public streets or way of the city without having first installed
on said vehicle a warning light, and without having said light turned on and
having same operation while and for one minute before stopping for sale and for
one minute after completing the sale and resuming motion.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.09 MARKETS.
   Vendors, at times, participate in established flea markets. Any vendor
visaing to conduct business within the city shall first pay and receive a
permit from the city. Any and all permits shall be clearly displayed at the
vender location. Permits shall be obtained at City Hall prior to any
transaction.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 117.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a peddler
within the city without first obtaining a permit.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.21 APPLICATION.
   The application for a permit required by the provisions of this chapter
shall state or contain the following:
   (A)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime misdemeanor or violation of any state or federal law or municipal
ordinance or code; the nature of the offense; the punishment or penalty
assessed therefor, if previously convicted; and the place of conviction;
   (B)   A written certificate of a practicing physician in the county, dated
not more than five days prior to the date of filing the application, certifying
that the physician has examined the application and has found him or her to be
free of infectious, contagious or communicable diseases;
   (C)   Whether the applicant, upon any sale or order, shall demand, accept or
receive payment or deposit of money in advance of final delivery;
   (D)   The period of time the applicant wishes to engage in business within
the city;
   (E)   The local and permanent address of the applicant;
   (F)   The local and permanent address and the name of the person, if any,
that the applicant represents;
   (G)   The kind of goods, wares, merchandise or services in which the
applicant wishes to engage in such business within the city;
   (H)   The last five cities or towns wherein the applicant has worked before
coming to the city; and
   (I)   Such other relevant information as may be required for the
investigation of the applicant.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 117.22 DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   At this time of filing his or her application for a permit required by this
chapter, the applicant shall present his or her driver’s license, if he or she
has one, to the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 117.23 FALSE INFORMATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give any false or misleading
information in connection with his or her application for a permit required by
this chapter. Any permit shall be subject to revocation.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.24 FINGERPRINTS AND PHOTOGRAPHS.
   At the time of making application for a permit required by this chapter, the
applicant shall submit a photograph to the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 117.25 FEES.
   (A)   Before any permit shall be issued under the provisions of this
chapter, the applicant therefor shall pay a fee, based upon the duration he or
she desires to engage in business in the city, as follows:
 
Peddlers
Per day   $10
Per week  $45
Per month $175
 
   (B)   A vendor participating at an established market, shall pay a market
participation fee of $5. This fee shall not effect any other applicable fee or
requirement.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 117.26 BOND REQUIRED.
   The application for a permit required by the provisions of this chapter
shall be accompanied by bond in the penal sum of $1,000 signed by the applicant
and signed, as surety, by some surety company authorized to do business in the
state, conditioned for the final delivery of goods, wares, merchandise or
services in accordance with the terms of any order obtained prior to delivery
and also conditioned to indemnify any and all purchasers or customers for any
all defects in material or workmanship that may exist in the article sold by
the principal of such bond, at the time of delivery, and that may be discovered
by such purchaser or customer within 30 days after delivery, and which bond
shall be for the use and benefit of all persons that may make any purchase or
give any order to the principal on such bond, or to an agent or employee of
such principal.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 117.27 SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   (A)   Per day: $5; and
   (B)   Per month: $15.
   (C)   Before any permit shall be issued under this chapter, there shall also
be filed with the City Secretary an instrument in writing, signed by the
applicant under oath, nominating and appointing the City Secretary his or her
true and lawful agent, with full power and authority to acknowledge service of
notice of process for and on behalf of such applicant, and service of summons
in any action brought upon the applicant’s bond shall be deemed made when
served on the City Secretary. All permits shall be displayed in view of
inspectors.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 117.28 ISSUANCE.
   No permit shall be used under the provisions of this chapter until the
applicant shall have complied with all the provisions and requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 117.29 LIMITATIONS.
   No peddler’s permit shall be issued to a corporation, partnership or other
impersonal legal entity, but each individual person engaging in the business of
peddling within the city shall be required to have a permit whether acting for
himself or herself or as an agent or representative of another.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 117.30 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be signed by
the City Secretary; shall be dated as of the date of its issuance; and shall
state the duration or term of such permit on the face thereof. Any permit not
dated and signed as herein provided, or which was issued in violation of this
section, shall be void.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 117.31 DISPLAY.
   Every peddler having a permit issued under the provisions of this chapter
and doing business within the city shall display his or her permit upon the
request of any person and failure to do so shall be deemed a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.32 DURATION.
   Every permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be valid for
the period of time stated therein, but in no event shall any such permit be
issued for a period of time in excess of 12 months.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 117.33 REVOCATION.
   Any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked for
any reason, no reason or for the violation by the permitted of any applicable
provision of this code, state law or city ordinance. Upon such revocation, such
permit shall immediately be surrendered to the City Secretary and failure to do
so shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-21-2014)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   SOCIAL HOST RESPONSIBILITY
      
131.   CURFEW
      
132.   LOITERING
CHAPTER 130: SOCIAL HOST RESPONSIBILITY
Section
   
130.01   Title
   
130.02   Legislative purpose
   
130.03   Legislative findings
   
130.04   Definitions
   
130.05   Gatherings involving underage drinking prohibited
   
130.06   Protected activities
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Social Host Accountability Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 130.02 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect the public health, safety and general welfare;
   (B)   Promote the reduction of underage drinking by imposing a civil fine on
persons or entities responsible for gatherings where alcohol is consumed by,
served to or in the possession of underage persons;
   (C)   Facilitate the enforcement of laws prohibiting the service to,
consumption of or possession of alcoholic beverages by underage persons; and
   (D)   To offset the city’s costs associated with providing fire, police and
other emergency services to gatherings involving underage drinking, by imposing
a civil fee upon the persons or entity responsible for the gathering involving
underage drinking to occur on their premises, at their residences or at rented
facilities.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 130.03 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   The recitals set forth in the ordinance codified herein are incorporated
herein as legislative findings by the City Council.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 130.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirits of wine, or
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, ale and
every liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer or ale,
and which contains 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for
beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with other
substances.
   JUVENILE. Any person less than 18 years of age.
   GATHERING INVOLVING UNDERAGE DRINKING. A party or gathering of two or more
persons at a residence or on other private progeny or rented public progeny
upon which any underage persons, including minors and juveniles, possess or
consume alcoholic beverages.
   MINOR. Any person less than 21 years of age.
   OTHER PRIVATE PROPERTY. A hotel or motel room; an assembly hall or meeting
room; a common room of a dwelling unit used for a party (e.g., recreation room
of an apartment building); a site in a privately-owned campground; a privately-
owned vacant lot; a privately-owned agricultural land; or privately-owned rural
land, whether occupied as a dwelling, part or other social function and whether
owned, leased, rented or used without compensation.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE GATHERING. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The person who owns, rents, teases or otherwise has control of the
premises where the gathering occurs;
      (2)   The person in charge of the premises; and/or
      (3)   The person who organized the gathering. If the PERSON RESPONSIBLE
FOR THE GATHERING is a juvenile, then the juvenile and the parents or guardians
of that juvenile will be jointly and severally liable for the civil fine and/or
for the costs incurred for public safety services pursuant to this chapter.
   PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES and/ or RESPONSE COSTS. The costs associated with
responses by law enforcement, fire and other emergency response providers to
gatherings involving underage drinking, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The portion of the cost of salaries and benefits of law
enforcement, fire or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time
spent responding to, remaining at or otherwise dealing with the gathering
involving underage drinking and the administrative costs attributable to such
response(s);
      (2)   The cost of any medical treatment to or for any law enforcement,
fire or other emergency response personnel injured responding to, remaining at
or leaving the scene of a gathering involving underage drinking; and
      (3)   The cost of the use of any equipment or property, and the cost of
repairing any equipment or property damaged, in responding to, remaining at or
leaving the scene of a gathering involving underage drinking.
   RESIDENCE. Includes: a dwelling unit such as a home, condominium or
apartment; structures on the residence other than the dwelling unit such as a
garage, studio, tent, boat dock, swimming pool, barn or boat house; land on the
residence whether improved or unimproved such as a yard, patio, open fields,
piers or lake shores; waterbodies on the residence such as a pond, lake, river
or stream; a motor vehicle, camper or trailer located on the residence or a
boat, watercraft or other marine vessel located on the residence whether
occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
for a party or gathering, and whether owned, leased, rented or used with or
without compensation.
   UNDERAGE PERSON. Any person less than 21 years of age and shall have the
same meaning as “minor”, as defined above.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 130.05 GATHERINGS INVOLVING UNDERAGE DRINKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall suffer, permit or host a gathering involving underage
drinking at his or her place of residence or other private property, place or
premises or host a gathering of two or more persons at a public place under his
or her control.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 PROTECTED ACTIVITIES.
   This chapter shall not apply to activities duly permitted by the state or
the city of or to activities protected by the First or Fourteenth Amendments to
the United States Constitution.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation(s); civil penalties. It shall be a civil violation for a
person to conduct or allow a gathering involving underage drinking where
alcohol is served to, consumed by or in the possession of an underaged person
on premises owned by the person responsible for the gathering, on premises
rented by or to the person responsible for the gathering, on premises where the
person responsible for the gathering resides or on premises where the person
responsible for the gathering is in control of such premises during the
gathering. Law enforcement personnel, at his or her discretion, may immediately
issue a citation for this civil violation upon evidence of the violation. There
is no requirement of a first warning in order for law enforcement to issue this
civil citation.
      (1)   A first violation of this section shall result in a notice of
violation with a $550 civil penalty. A second violation shall result in a
notion of violation with a $750 civil penalty. A third or subsequent violation
shall result in a notice of violation with a $1,000 civil penalty.
      (2)   Peace officers employed by the city are hereby authorized to issue
notices of violations for violations of this chapter. A city police officer
shall give notice of a violation of this chapter by issuing a notice of
violation to any and all responsible persons identified by law enforcement
within 30 days of the violation. The notice of violation shall also give notice
of the right to request an administrative hearing to challenge the validity of
the notice of violation and the time for requesting that hearing.
      (3)   The civil penalty prescribed in this section is in addition to any
civil cost recovery fee for public safety responses that may be assessed
pursuant to division (B) below.
      (4)   In the event that the responsible person who is in violation of
this chapter is a juvenile, then the juvenile and the parents or guardians of
that juvenile will be jointly and severally liable for the civil violation.
   (B)   Imposition of civil cost recovery fee for public safety responses.
      (1)   In addition to any civil penalty imposed for violation of this
chapter, when any gathering involving underage drinking occurs at a residence
or on other private property or rented public property a peace officer at the
scene determines that there is a threat to the public peace, health, safety or
general welfare, the peace officer shall give to the person(s) responsible for
the gathering warning that a second or follow up violation of this chapter on
the same date or within six months of the date of the warning shall result in
his, her or their liability for the cost of providing public safety services
(i.e., fire, ambulance, sheriff and other emergency providers). The requirement
of a first warning does not limit the ability of public safety personnel to
issue a civil citation for the imposition of civil penalties for cost recovery
on the same day that the warning is given if the warning does not end the
gathering involving underage drinking. The cost recovery for public safety
responses shall be separate and distinct from a civil penalty for a civil
violation described in division (A) above.
      (2)   The amount of cost recovery under this division (B) shall be the
response costs.
      (3)   The city’s Police Department shall develop a schedule of costs for
use in determining response costs subject to this chapter.
      (4)   In the event that the responsible person who is in violation of
this chapter is a juvenile, then the juvenile and the parents or guardians of
that juvenile will be jointly and severally liable for the imposition of civil
penalties for the cost of providing public safety services.
      (5)   If there is more than one responsible person for the gathering,
then each responsible person shall be jointly and severally liable for the
civil penalty and/or for the costs incurred for public safety services pursuant
to this chapter.
      (6)   Civil cost recovery fee(s) shall not be imposed for the medical
response costs in those situations where those present at the gathering call
for emergency services for an actual emergency at the premises.
   (C)   Hearings on the imposition of civil fine and/or imposition of civil
cost recovery fee for public safety response; appeals.
      (1)   Appointment of an Administrative Hearings Officer. The City Council
hereby appoints the person holding the position of Municipal Judge as the
Administrative Hearings Officer (“Hearings Officer”).
      (2)   Administrative hearing. Any person subject to a civil penalty
pursuant to division (A) above or subject to a civil cost recovery fee for
public safety responses pursuant to division (B) above shall have the right to
request an administrative bearing within 45 days of the issuance of a notice of
violation. To request such a hearing, the person requesting the hearing shall
notify the Hearings Officer in writing within 45 days of the issuance of the
citation.
      (3)   Powers and duties. The Hearings Officer is delegated the power and
duty to hear any appeal hearing under this division (C). The Hearings Officer
shall conduct a hearing on the matter within 90 days of the request for the
hearing unless one of the parties requests a continuance for good cause. The
Hearings Officer shall render a decision within 30 days of the conclusion of
the hearing. The Hearings Officer shall have the sole authority for sustaining
or overturning a notice of violation or imposition of response costs issued
under this chapter. The decision of the Hearings Officer shall be final.
   (D)   Billing and civil penalty and civil cost recovery fee for public
safety responses; debt to city; enforcement.
      (1)   (a)   The amount of a civil penalty and/ or civil cost recovery fee
for public safety responses shall be deemed a debt owed to the city by the
person responsible for the gathering and, if that person is a juvenile, then
also his or her parents or guardians. Any person owing such penalty and/or fees
shall be liable in an action brought in the name of the county for recovery of
such penalty and/or fees.
         (b)   The Police Chief shall mail notice via certified mail within 20
days of the response for which the person is liable giving rise to such costs.
The Police Chief shall calculate and compile an itemized list of applicable
response costs. The notice shall contain the following information:
            1.   The name(s) of the person(s) being held liable for the payment
of such costs;
            2.   The address of the residence or other private property where
the gathering involving underage drinking occurred;
            3.   The date and time of the response;
            4.   The law enforcement, fire and/or emergency service responder
who responded;
            5.   The date and time of any previous warning given pursuant to
division (B) above;
            6.   An itemized list of the response costs for which the person(s)
is liable;
            7.   Information regarding the date payment is due; and
            8.   The right to request an administrative hearing to challenge
the imposition of response costs and/or civil penalties.
         (c)   The responsible person must remit payment of the noticed costs
and/or civil penalties to the city within 45 days of the notice thereof. The
payment of any such costs shall be stayed upon a timely request for an
administrative hearing made pursuant to division (C) above.
      (2)   City Council shall have the authority to file any action or
proceeding to recover such civil penalties, public safety response costs,
expenses and/or civil penalties and take any other actions at law which he or
she may deem necessary to recover same.
   (E)   Remedies cumulative; actions; relationship to other laws. The remedies
provided under this chapter are cumulative and shall not restrict the city to
any other remedy to which it is entitled under law or equity. Nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to preclude the imposition of any criminal penalty
under state law; nor shall anything in this chapter be deemed to conflict with
any penalty or provision under state law or prohibit any conduct authorized by
the State or Federal Constitution.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-4-2017)
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Curfew hours
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Exemptions
   
131.04   Duty of parents and guardians
   
131.05   Inducement of violation; permitting violations
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 CURFEW HOURS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she:
      (1)   Is a minor;
      (2)   Appears in a public place between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m.; and/or
      (3)   Appears in a public place between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00
p.m. on any Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday; provided, the minor
is subject to compulsory school attendance pursuant to Tex. Education Code §
21.032; and, provided, the school in which the minor is enrolled is not closed
or classes for which the minor is enrolled have not been cancelled under the
order and direction of officials authorized to issue such orders and
directives.
   (B)   Prior to making an arrest under this chapter, an authorized peace
officer with jurisdiction shall inquire of the apparent offender’s age and
reason for being in the public place and will not arrest the alleged offender
unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that
based on any response and other circumstances, that one of the defenses is not
present.
   (C)   An officer from the La Joya I.S.D. shall have jurisdiction to enforce
this chapter; however, any and all penalties shall be assessed in favor of the
city.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-2-2010) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   MINOR. An individual under the age of 17 years or any person subject to
compulsory school attendance.
   PARENT. A natural or adoptive parent, step-parent, person in loco parentis
or legal guardian of the person of the child.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment, including the members or
partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a corporation.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common buildings, transport facilities and shops, but does not include a
lot containing and used with residential dwelling if the minor is there with
the consent of his or her parents and the owner or tenant who occupies the
residential premises.
   REMAIN. To:
      (1)   Linger or stay; or
      (2)   Fail to leave the premises when requested to do so by a peace
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control or the premises.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-2-2010)
§ 131.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   It shall be an exemption to the prosecution under this chapter that the
person appeared in a public place:
   (A)   Because of an emergency which the person reasonably believed would
affect the physical well- being or the property interests of himself, herself
or another;
   (B)   At the direction of a peace officer;
   (C)   Was accompanied by his or her parent or another adult over the age of
21 whom his or her parent entrusted with his or her care;
   (D)   As an incident of attendance with parental consent at a meeting,
dance, theater, sporting event or other activity, supervised by adults and
sponsored by a school, church, civic organization or other similar entity,
which takes responsibility for such minor;
   (E)   As an incident of lawful employment or going to or returning from home
from an employment activity;
   (F)   As an incident of interstate travel;
   (G)   Was emancipated;
   (H)   While necessarily traveling in a direct route to or from a place he or
she is permitted to be under this section; and/or
   (I)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization or another
similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor or going to or returning
home from such activity, without any detour or stop.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-2-2010)
§ 131.04 DUTY OF PARENTS AND GUARDIANS.
   A natural or adoptive parent, legal guardian, person in loco parentis or
other person with legal custody or control of a minor commits an offense is he
or she knowingly permits or, by criminally negligent control, allows the minor
to appear in a public place in violation of any section of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-2-2010)
§ 131.05 INDUCEMENT OF VIOLATION; PERMITTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she induces, encourages or
assists a minor to appear in a public place in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to enter or remain upon the
premises of the establishment in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-2-2010) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter is a Class C misdemeanor. Any person who
knowingly and intentionally violates any of the foregoing provisions of this
chapter shall be fined up to $300 for each violation.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-2-2010)
CHAPTER 132: LOITERING
Section
   
132.01   Unlawful behavior
   
132.02   Prohibited activities
   
132.03   Exemptions
   
132.04   Police powers
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 UNLAWFUL BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether alone or in any grouping or
assemblage of persons, to loiter, as defined in this section, in, on or about
any place, public or private, within the corporate limits of the city, when
such loitering is accompanied by activity or circumstances that afford probable
cause for alarm or concern for the safety and well-being of persons or for the
security of property, in the surrounding area.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-20-2009) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   The term LOITER includes any of the following activities, although this list
is not meant to be all-inclusive:
   (A)   Lingering in the streets, sidewalks, parking lots or vicinity of a
business, in which the person has no ownership or employment interest, either
within or outside of a vehicle, when the premises are not open for business to
the public;
   (B)   Failure to leave private property when requested to do so by the
owner, manager, proprietor or lessee of such property;
   (C)   Walking, standing, driving a vehicle or parking a vehicle in the
business district or non- residential areas of the city under circumstances
that show no apparent business or employment-related need for such activity;
   (D)   Lingering in the street, sidewalks or vicinity of a residence, either
within or outside of a vehicle, without the permission of the owner or tenant
of the residence;
   (E)   Lingering in the streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks or other public
places, either within or outside of a vehicle, under circumstances that show no
apparent reason or business to do so;
   (F)   The systematic checking by a person of doors, windows or other means
of access to buildings, houses or vehicles;
   (G)   Repeated activity by a person, continuous or broken, which outwardly
manifests no purpose, such as going from one place to another and back with no
showing of use for such movement; and/or
   (H)   Continuous presence by a person in close proximity to any building,
house, vehicle or any other property or to any other person, at any time, when
the activity of such person manifests possible unlawful activity, such
continuous presence being for an unreasonable period of time under the
circumstances then existing.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-20-2009) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities shall not be considered to be loitering and shall
be exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   A person shall not be considered loitering while in direct route, and
not lingering, to or from work or to or from place of residence;
   (B)   A person shall not be considered loitering while engaged in the repair
of a disabled vehicle;
   (C)   A person under the age of 18 shall not be considered loitering while
engaged in, or in direct route to school, church or entertainment activities
with permission of his or her parent or guardian; and/or
   (D)   A person shall not be considered to be loitering while sleeping in a
vehicle; provided, the vehicle is parked on private property with the
permission of the owner or manager of the premises, or if the vehicle is parked
on public property, with permission of a police officer.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 132.04 POLICE POWERS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to in any way limit the present
police powers of the law enforcement officers of the city, to make any
investigations, detention or arrest as the circumstances may warrant, in the
usual course of the enforcement of the laws and the ordinances applicable to
such cases.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter may result in a fine of $200 and applicable
court fees or fines.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-20-2009)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES
      
153.   SIGNS
      
154.   FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
      
155.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
156.   ZONING AND LAND USE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Building Codes adopted
   
150.02   Filling up and draining lots
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODES ADOPTED.
   The city adopts by reference certain editions of the Southern Standard
Building Code, the National Electrical Code, the Standard Plumbing Code, the
Mechanical Safety Code, the Life Safety Code, the International Building Code,
the International Residential Code, the International Plumbing Code, the
International Mechanical Code, the International Fuel/Gas Code, the
International Energy Conservation Code, the International Existing Building
Code, the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, the International Property
Maintenance Code and the International Fire Code, and any and all amendments
and modifications thereto, excepting fee related portions, and these documents
are incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 89-4, passed - -1989; Ord. 90-06, passed 12-5-1990; Ord. 90-07, passed
12-5-1990; Ord. 90-09, passed 12-5-1990; Ord. 90-10, passed 12-5-1990; Ord. 90-
11, passed 12-5-1990; Ord. 2013-14, passed 12-16-2013; Ord. 2022-04-O, passed
4-19-2022)
§ 150.02 FILLING UP AND DRAINING LOTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who shall own
or occupy any lot or lots in the city to permit or allow holes or places on
said lots where water may accumulate and become stagnant, or to permit same to
remain.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who shall own
or occupy any lot or lots in the city to permit or allow the accumulation of
stagnant water thereon, or to permit same to remain.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who shall own
or occupy any house, buildings, establishment lot or yard in the city to permit
or allow and carrion, filth or other impure or unwholesome matter to accumulate
or remain thereon.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who shall own
or occupy any lot or lots in the city to allow weeds, rubbish, brush or any
other unsightly, objectionable or unsanitary matter to accumulate or grow on
said lot or lots.
   (E)   Should any owner of such lot or lots that have places thereon where
stagnant water may accumulate and or which are not properly drained, or the
owner of any premises or building upon which carrion, filth or other impure or
unwholesome matter may be, fail and/or refuse to drain and/or fill the said lot
or lots, or remove such filth, carrion or other impure or unwholesome matter as
the case may be, within ten days after notice to said owner to do so, in
writing, or by letter addressed to such owner at his or her post office address
or within ten days after notice by publication as many as two times within ten
consecutive days in any newspaper in the city. If personal service may not be
had as aforesaid, or if the owner’s address be not known, then in that event
the city may do such filling or draining or removal of filth, carrion and the
like or any other unsightly, objectionable or unsanitary matter, or cause the
same to be done and may pay therefor and charge the expense incurred in doing
such work or having such work done or improvements made to the owner of such
lot or lots or real estate, and if such work is done or improvements made at
the expense of the city, then such expense or expenses shall be assessed on the
real estate, or lots upon which such expense was incurred.
   (F)   Should any owner of any lot or lots within the city, who shall allow
weeds, rubbish, brush or any other unsightly, objectionable or unsanitary
matter to grow or accumulate thereon, fail and/or refuse to cut down and/or
remove such weeds, rubbish, brush or other unsightly, objectionable or
unsanitary matter, as the case may be, within ten days after notice to said
owner to do so, in writing, or by letter addressed to such owner at his or her
post office address, or within ten days after notice by publication as many as
two times within ten consecutive days in any newspaper in the city may do such
cutting down and/or removing such weeds, rubbish, brush or any other unsightly,
objectionable or unsanitary matter, or cause the same to be done and may pay
therefor, and charge the expenses incurred in doing such work or having such
work done or improvements made to the owner of such lot or lots or real estate;
and, if such work is done or improvements made at the expense of the city, then
such expense or expenses shall be assessed on the real estate, or lot or lots
upon which such expense was incurred.
   (G)   The Mayor, City Health Officer or City Secretary shall file a
statement of such expenses incurred under division (E) above or under division
(F) above, as the case may be, giving the amount of such expenses, the date on
which said work was done or improvements made, with the County Clerk; and the
city shall have a privileged lien on such lot or lots or real estate upon which
said work was done or improvements made to secure the expenditures so made in
accordance with the provisions of Tex. Property Code Title 5, Chs. 51 et seq.,
which said lien shall be second only to tax liens and liens for street
improvements; and said amount shall bear 10% interest from the date said
statement was filed. It is further provided that for any such expenditures, and
interest, as aforesaid, suit may be instituted and recovery and foreclosure of
said lien may be had in the name of the city; and the statement of expenses so
made, as aforesaid, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie proof of
the amount expended for such work or improvements.
(Ord. 86-02, passed 8-26-1986) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or individual who shall violate any of the provisions
of §
150.02 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $200, and each and every day’s
violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. In case the owner
or occupant of any lot, lots or premises under the provisions of §
150.02 of this chapter shall be a corporation, and shall violate any provision
of §
150.02 of this chapter, the president, vice-president, secretary or treasurer
of such corporation or any manager, agent or employee of such corporation shall
be also severally liable for the penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 86-02, passed 8-26-1986)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Drilling and mining
Excavations
   
151.15   Permit required
   
151.16   Application
   
151.17   Permit fee and bond
   
151.18   Protection of public
   
151.19   Supervision of work
   
151.20   Duties upon completion of work
   
151.21   Acceptance and inspection of completed work
   
151.22   Borings and cutting paved surfaces
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DRILLING AND MINING.
   (A)   The City Council prohibits drilling and mining within the city limits
to provide safety features and to promote the public or the public welfare, and
to guard and protect the persons, lives and properties of the people in the
city, and of those passing through the city, from the dangers and hazards of
the escape of gas, fire, explosions, cratering and other dangers incident to
fields and production of oil and gas.
   (B)   This section is, therefore, passed for the purpose of protecting
health, life and property to preserve and enforce good government, order and
security of the city and its inhabitants and for the purpose of preventing
nuisances in the exploration drilling for and production of oil and/or gas
within the city limits and to promote proper and orderly development and
conservation of said natural resources.
(Ord. 97-08, passed 6-17-1997) Penalty, see §
151.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 151.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation in any right-of-
way of any street, alley or public highway of the city or to cut any street
curb or to cut any paved surface of any city street without first having
obtained a permit from the city.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-15-2005) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for the permit to make any excavation or opening
within the right-of-way of any of the streets, alleys or public highways of the
city shall be made to the City Inspector in the forms provided and required by
the City Inspector.
   (B)   The application for permit shall, at a minimum, contain:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number and name of contact person of
the applicant;
      (2)   State clearly the name of the street or highway in which the
excavation is proposed;
      (3)   Accurately identify the exact location where the excavation will be
made;
      (4)   Describe in detail the purpose of the excavation and the length,
width and depth of the excavation to be made; and
      (5)   Require that the applicant provide photographs of the exact
location where the excavation will be made.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-15-2005)
§ 151.17 PERMIT FEE AND BOND.
   (A)   General. A fee of $50 will be assessed for each excavation permit
issued under this subchapter.
   (B)   Cash security required. The City Inspector shall estimate the probable
cost of replacing the soil, which may be removed from such public street or
highway right-of-way and/or the repaving of any cut street, and shall require
the applicant to deposit a cash security in an amount sufficient to cover such
cost, on condition that the street right-of-way and/or street shall be restored
to its original state.
   (C)   Issuance. When the cash deposit required in this subchapter shall have
been accepted by the City Inspector, he or she shall then issue a permit for
the excavation or opening stated in the application and the applicant may then
proceed with the work in the exact location named in his or her application,
and in no other place.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-15-2005)
§ 151.18 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC.
   It shall be the duty of any person or entity making any excavation in the
street right-of-way of any city street, road or highway to adequately and
sufficiently warn of the presence of the excavation and of any danger which the
excavation may pose to the public, and to install wood or metal barricades or
other obstructions, including a sufficient amber or red constantly blinking
lights during periods of darkness, so as to prevent injury to persons or
property. The permittee shall also be required to install traffic-control and
directional signs and devices, as necessary, in the immediate vicinity of the
excavation.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-15-2005) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.19 SUPERVISION OF WORK.
   All the work of excavating or making any character of opening in any of the
streets, alleys or highways of the city shall, at all times, be under the
supervision of the permittee.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-15-2005) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.20 DUTIES UPON COMPLETION OF WORK.
   Upon completion of the work requiring the excavation, the excavation shall
be backfilled, the curb shall be replaced and the sheet shall be repaved, as
the case may be. The backfill shall consist of the dirt removed and/or of
similar dirt hauled in from another location. The backfill shall be properly
compacted at various depths, in the manner directed by the City Inspector, or
City Engineer, to ensure that the excavation is restored to original ground
level and that it will not eventually settle below such ground level. Any lawn
grass, ornamental vegetation, decorative bush or small tree that was removed or
destroyed in the course of excavating the site shall be replaced, as near as
practical to its original state. The curb replacement and street repaving shall
meet the standards specified by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-15-2005) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 ACCEPTANCE AND INSPECTION OF COMPLETED WORK.
   The permittee shall request an inspection by the City Inspector or City
Engineer of the restoration work on the excavated site. If permittee fails to
restore the street or highway to its original condition, as required by this
subchapter, the City Inspector or City Engineer shall so notify the permittee.
If the permittee fails to perform the work required to achieve compliance with
this subchapter within five days after having been notified that the backfill,
curb replacement or street repavement does not comply with the requirements of
this subchapter, the city may proceed to have the street, alley or other
highway restored to its original condition, paying the same out of the cash
deposited as security with the city. After completion of the work, any funds
remaining will be refunded to the permittee and any deficiencies shall be
charged against the permittee.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-15-2005)
§ 151.22 BORINGS AND CUTTING PAVED SURFACES.
   If an applicant intends to bore underneath or cut the paved surface of any
city-owned street, including cutting any curb, the applicant shall be required
to pay an additional $500 engineering inspection fee. All borings, pavement
cuts and curb cuts shall be restored to the standards specified by the City
Engineer.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-15-2005)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Performing any act regulated by §§
151.15 through
151.22 of this chapter without first obtaining a permit shall be a violation of
§§
151.15 through
151.22 of this chapter and shall constitute an offense punishable by a fine of
up to $500 for each separate offense.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-15-2005)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Conflict with other ordinances
   
152.02   Coordination with subdivision regulations
Mobile Homes and Recreational Vehicles
   
152.15   Definitions
   
152.16   Location requirements
Mobile Home Parks and Recreational Vehicle Parks
   
152.30   Definition
   
152.31   Permits
   
152.32   Standards and specifications generally
   
152.33   Site plans
   
152.34   Location, space, setback and height
   
152.35   Access, traffic, circulation and parking
   
152.36   Recreation area
   
152.37   Soil and ground cover
   
152.38   Drainage
   
152.39   Water installation
   
152.40   Sewage disposal
   
152.41   Park management; responsibilities
   
152.42   Applicability
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   Whenever the applicable standards and specifications in this chapter
conflict with those contained in another ordinance, the most stringent or
restrictive provision shall govern.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986)
§ 152.02 COORDINATION WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances be carried out simultaneously with the
review of the mobile home and recreational vehicle park provisions.
   (B)   The plans required under this chapter must be submitted in a form
which will satisfy the requirements of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances for the preliminary and final plans required
under these regulations.
   (C)   Both this chapter and other sections of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances contain regulations which apply to such
matters in the design of a planned development as streets and open spaces. In
any planned development for which the provisions of the two are in conflict,
the Planning and Zoning Commission, with advice and recommendations from the
City Council, shall make the decision as to which shall prevail.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986)
MOBILE HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 152.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed by a
motor vehicle on its own chassis over state roads and highways under special
permit, connected to utilities and designed without a permanent foundation for
year-round living. It may consist of one or more units that can be telescoped
when towed and expanded later for additional capacity or of two or more units
separately towable, but designed to be joined into one integral unit.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any of the following.
      (1)   DEPENDENT TRAILER. A trailer which is dependent upon a service
building for toilet and lavatory facilities.
      (2)   MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
      (3)   PICK-UP COACH. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
      (4)   SELF-CONTAINED TRAILER. A trailer which can operate independent of
connections to sewer, water, and electric system. it contains a water-flushed
toilet, lavatory, shower and kitchen sink, all of which are connected to water
storage and sewage holding tanks located within the trailer.
      (5)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses, permanently identified “travel trailer” by the manufacture of
the trailer, and, when factory equipped for the road, it shall have a body
width not exceeding eight feet and a body length not exceeding state maximum.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986)
§ 152.16 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An individual mobile home or recreational vehicle may be located or
situated only in established mobile home or RV parks with the city and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (B)   No mobile home or RV may be located or situated in a subdivision
established for single-family dwellings of permanent type construction within
such a subdivision, mobile homes or RVs may be situated only in those areas
expressly designated for mobile homes and RVs of said subdivision as approved
as such by the Planning and Zoning Board and the City Council.
   (C)   (1)   An individual desiring to locate a mobile home or RV in an area
other than a mobile home or RV park or a subdivision where mobile homes are
allowed must first seek a permit from the city and indicate where he or she
desires to locate the mobile home or RV.
      (2)   The city will then determine if there is no objection to such
location of the mobile home or RV and if such location if suitable for
placement of a mobile home or RV.
      (3)   There being no objection and the location being suitable for
placement of mobile homes or RVs, the individual will be granted a permit to
locate his or her mobile home or RV in the approved location.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOBILE HOME PARKS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
§ 152.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME OR RECREATION VEHICLE PARK. A unified development of mobile home
or recreational vehicle spaces arranged on a tract of land under single person
ownership, for the purpose of renting or leasing lots meeting all requirements
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986)
§ 152.31 PERMITS.
   (A)   Required; application.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter or extend
any mobile home or recreational vehicle park within the corporate limits of the
city unless he or she holds a valid permit for such issued by the city in the
name of such person.
      (2)   All applications for permits shall be made upon standard forms
provided by the city and contain the following:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Location and legal description of the mobile home or
recreational vehicle park; and
         (c)   To this application shall be attached two copies of a site plan
at a minimum scale of one inch to 200 feet for sites 30 acres or more, and at a
minimum scale of one inch to 100 feet for sites under 30 acres. This site plan
does not replace or supersede the subdivision plat of the property required by
state law to be recorded in the county records in which the property is
located, after review and approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Permit fee. All applications to the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall be accompanied by a fee of $10.
   (C)   Issuance. When, upon review of the application, the city is satisfied
that the proposed plan meets the requirements of this and other applicable
ordinances, a permit shall be issued.
   (D)   Denial; hearing. Any person whose application for a permit under this
subchapter has been denied may request a hearing on the matter with the City
Council.
   (E)   Prohibited placement of mobile home. The placement of a mobile home
shall not be permitted, except in an approved licensed mobile home or
recreational vehicle park or subdivision or sales lot.
   (F)   Prohibited placement of recreational vehicle. The placement of a
recreational vehicle for occupancy shall not be permitted, except in an
approved mobile home or recreational vehicle park or sales lot.
   (G)   Permitted placement outside of park. Permits will be granted for the
placement of a recreational vehicle at an owner’s place of business and for
mobile homes as temporary office facilities.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.32 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS GENERALLY.
   Any mobile home or recreational vehicle park constructed and any extension
or addition to any existing mobile home or recreational vehicle park in the
city of in the extraterritorial jurisdiction shall be done in compliance with
the following sections of this subchapter.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986)
§ 152.33 SITE PLANS.
   The site plan shall be filed as required in this section and shall show the
following: (This site plan does not replace or supersede the subdivision plat
of the property required by state law to be recorded in the county records of
the county in which the property is located, after review and approval of the
Planning and Zoning Commission.)
   (A)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land, with identification of
location and boundaries;
   (B)   The number, location and size of all mobile home or recreational
vehicle spaces;
   (C)   The location, width and specifications or driveways, roadways and
walkways;
   (D)   The location and specifications of water and sewer lines and riser
pipes;
   (E)   The location and details of lighting, electrical, gas, telephone and
television cable;
   (F)   The location and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the park;
   (G)   Existing and proposed topography of the mobile home or recreational
vehicle park; and
   (H)   The location of fire mains, including the size, the hydrants and any
other equipment which may be provided, if any.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986)
§ 152.34 LOCATION, SPACE, SETBACK AND HEIGHT.
   Minimum location, space, setback and height requirements for mobile home and
recreational vehicle parks shall be as follows:
 
                                         Setbacks
             Location      Lot Size      Front          Side          Between
                                                                      Buildings
                           1,500 square  10 feet from
                           feet with     nearest corner
                           mobile home   of mobile home
                           occupying not to line the
             Minimum site  more than 1/  front line of  5 feet to lot
Mobile homes of 5 acres    3 of the lot  the mobile     line          10 feet
                           and density   home space or
                           not to exceed lot 15 feet
                           12 dwelling   from ROW line
                           units per     adjoining
                           acre          public street
                                         5 feet from
                                         nearest corner
                                         of RV to front
             Park shall                  line of RV to
Recreational not exceed 25               front line of  4 feet to lot 8 feet
vehicles     spaces per                  RV space 15    line
             acre                        feet from ROW
                                         line adjoining
                                         public
                                         property
 
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986)
§ 152.35 ACCESS, TRAFFIC, CIRCULATION AND PARKING.
   (A)   Internal streets shall be privately owned, built and maintained, and
designed for safe and convenient access to all spaces and to facilities for
common use of park residents. They shall be constructed of materials and in the
method prescribed by the city. Internal streets shall be kept open and free of
obstructions in order that police and fire vehicles may have access to any
areas of the park.
   (B)   (1)   Internal street or common access routes shall be provided to
each mobile home or recreational vehicle space as follows:
 
            Minimum Width On-Street Parking Paved Cul-de-Sac Diameter
                          Permitted (2)     (1)
            20 feet       No                65 feet
Mobile home 24 feet       1 side only       65 feet
            30 feet       Both sides        65 feet
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) No internal street ending in a cul-de-sac shall exceed 600 feet in
length.
(2) Where off-street parking is provided, each space shall be hard
surfaced with all-weather materials and located to eliminate
interference with access to parking areas provided for other mobile
homes or recreational vehicles and for public parking in the park.
 
      (2)   Internal street shall permit the unobstructed access to within at
least 200 feet of any portion of each mobile home or recreational vehicle
space.
      (3)   Within each mobile home or recreational vehicle park, all streets
shall be named and mobile home or recreational vehicle lots numbered. All
street name signs and home numbers (where applicable) shall be of reflective
material. These streets signs shall be of a color and size contrasting with
those on public streets. These signs shall be of standard size and placement to
facilitate location by emergency vehicles.
      (4)   Interior streets shall intersect adjoining public streets at
approximately 90 degrees and at locations which will eliminate or minimize
interference with traffic on those public streets.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.36 RECREATION AREA.
   All mobile home recreational vehicles may have at least one recreational
area.
   (A)   Extent. Recreation areas and facilities, such as playgrounds, swimming
pools and community buildings shall be provided which, in the judgment of the
park licensee or agent, will meet the anticipated needs of the clientele which
the park is designed to serve. Provision of separate adult and tot lot
recreation areas is encouraged.
   (B)   Size of recreation area.
      (1)   Not less than 5% of the gross site area of the mobile home or
recreational vehicle park shall be devoted to recreational facilities,
generally provided in a central location. In large parks, these may be
decentralized.
      (2)   Recreation areas include space for community buildings and
community use facilities such as adult recreation and child play areas,
swimming pools and drying yards, but not including vehicle parking areas.
   (C)   Playground location. When playground space is provided, it shall be so
designated and shall be protected from traffic, thoroughfares and parking
areas. Such space shall be maintained in a sanitary condition and free of
safety hazards.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.37 SOIL AND GROUND COVER.
   Exposed grounds surfaces in all parts of every mobile home or recreational
vehicle park shall be paved, covered with stone screening or other solid
material, or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing
soil erosion and of eliminating dust.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.38 DRAINAGE.
   The ground surface in all parts of a park shall be equipped so that all
public utilities and facilities are located and planned to minimize or
eliminate flood damage and to ensure that the park is reasonably safe from
flooding.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.39 WATER INSTALLATION.
   All mobile home and recreational vehicle parks shall be provided with a
water distribution system approved by the city and connected to La Joya water
supply.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.40 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   All mobile home or recreational vehicle parks shall be connected to an
approved sewage collection and disposal system.
   (B)   Septic tanks may be used in mobile home or recreational vehicle parks
where percolation tests spaces 400 feet or less throughout the mobile home or
recreational vehicle parks are conducted by a professional engineer. A written
report of soil conditions and minimum drain fields shall be furnished.
Percolation test made by a recommendation of authorized county or state health
and or water quality agencies may be furnished in lieu of test by registered
engineer.
   (C)   (1)   Each mobile home and recreational vehicle stand shall be
provided with at least four-inch diameter sewer riser pipe. The sewer riser
pipe shall be so located on each stand that the sewer connection to the mobile
home or recreational vehicle drain outlet will approximate a vertical position.
      (2)   The sewer connection to the mobile home or recreational vehicle
from the sewer riser pipe and any other sewer connections shall be in
accordance with the applicable requirements of the county’s Plumbing Code.
      (3)   All materials used for sewer connections shall be in accordance
with the county’s Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.41 PARK MANAGEMENT; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Responsibilities of the park management.
      (1)   Park management shall have all responsibilities set out elsewhere
in this subchapter.
      (2)   The licensee or his or her agent shall operate the park in
compliance with this subchapter and other applicable ordinances and shall
provide adequate supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment
in good repair and in clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   The licensee or agent shall maintain a register of park occupancy
which shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Name and address of park residents;
         (b)   Mobile home and recreational vehicle registration data,
including make, length and width; and
         (c)   Location of each mobile home and recreational vehicle within the
park by space or lot number of street address.
      (4)   A map showing the location, size and depth of all utility, gas or
other lines shall be maintained on the premises for inspection and other
purposes.
   (B)   Responsibilities of park occupants.
      (1)   Park occupants shall have all responsibilities set out elsewhere in
this subchapter.
      (2)   The park occupant shall comply with all requirements of this
subchapter and shall maintain his or her mobile home or recreational vehicle
space, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary
condition.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the park occupant to anchor his
or her mobile home or recreational vehicle in accordance with state law
governing such anchoring.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.42 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to mobile home parks,
recreational vehicle parks and/or subdivisions in existence at the time of the
passage of this subchapter. This does not mean that mobile home park owners,
operators or residents therein, and improvements thereon, are exempt from
compliance with all other city ordinances. In the event any such existing
mobile home park or recreational vehicle park is enlarged or extended, this
subchapter shall apply to such enlargement or extension.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-17-1986)
CHAPTER 153: SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Definitions
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Enforcement; right of entry
   
153.004   Restrictions generally
   
153.005   Appeals
   
153.006   Interpretation; intent
   
153.007   Posting on poles
   
153.008   Conflicting provisions
Types and Classifications
   
153.020   Sign types
   
153.021   Exempted signs
   
153.022   Prohibited signs
   
153.023   Temporary signs
Signs Permitted by Zoning District
   
153.035   Agricultural Open-Interim and Agricultural Open Permanent Districts
   
153.036   Residential districts
   
153.037   Neighborhood Commercial District and Office Building District
   
153.038   General Business, Heavy Commercial and Industrial Districts
   
153.039   Expressway Corridor and Secondary Arterial Corridor Districts
   
153.040   Public Zone District
Compliance with Codes and Standards
   
153.055   Compliance
   
153.056   Structural and design requirements
   
153.057   Inspections
   
153.058   Maintenance, replacement or repair
   
153.059   Removal of signs ordered by city
Permits
   
153.070   Required application
   
153.071   Plans
   
153.072   Fees
   
153.073   Deviation from terms
   
153.074   Time limit for obtaining approved permit
   
153.075   Time limit for completion
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISING SIGN. A sign which identifies or promotes any product, commodity
or service.
   AGRICULTURAL SIGN. A sign which identifies the farm or ranch on which it is
placed and advertising the products, crops, animals or poultry raised or
quartered thereon.
   ANIMATED SIGN. A sign with action or motion, flashing color ranges requiring
electrical energy, automatic electronically controlled copy changes, electronic
or manufactured sources of supply, but not including wind actuated elements
such as flags, banners or special items.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. An architect, builder, developer, engineer or other person
empowered to act on behalf of other persons, entity or business operation.
   BOARD. The city's Zoning Board of Adjustments.
   DISTRICT. A zoning district within Palmview's city limits.
   DRIVEWAY AND STREET INTERSECTION RADIUS. A 30-inch by 30-inch triangular
shaped area on each side of such driveway or street intersection measured as
described in these regulations.
   EXPRESSWAY CORRIDOR. The commercially or industrially zoned areas along or
within 600 feet north and south of U.S. Expressway Highway 83 within the city's
corporate limits.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION (ETJ). The area extending beyond the corporate
limits of the city to the extent prescribed in Tex. Local Government Code §
212.001 or as mutually agreed with area cities via interlocal ETJ agreements.
   GUTTER FLOW LINE. In the absence of typical curb and gutter, the invisible
lines to either side of the paved or used right-of-way of a road at which water
will naturally flow parallel to such road.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A commercial use customarily carried on in the home by
members of the occupant, and as authorized by a conditional use permit as
prescribed in
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances, and of which a one-foot by one-foot sign
may be permitted when affixed to the primary structure and is permissible only
during which said HOME OCCUPATION is viable; once the HOME OCCUPATION does not
exist, the home occupation sign must be removed immediately.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign which identifies a school, church, hospital or
similar publicly owned building.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN. Any sign which does not conform to the regulations of
this chapter.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign, including the supporting sign structure, which
directs the attention of the general public to a business, service or activity
not conducted or a product not offered or sold upon the premises where such
sign is located.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign which directs the attention of the general public
to a lawful use on the premises on which it is located.
   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign that is securely attached to a building or premises
according to the prevailing building codes.
   PREMISES or SITE. Any property or combination of contiguous properties held
under a single ownership.
   PREVAILING BUILDING CODE. The code adopted by the City Council and being a
set of rules and regulations designed to protect the public's life, health and
general welfare in the built environment. It may also be interpreted as the
International Building Code and related appendices that may from time to time
be formally adopted by the city.
   SECONDARY ARTERIAL CORRIDOR. The area along both sides of U.S. Business
Highway 83 within the corporate limits of the city.
   SIGN. A sign is any device designed to inform or attract the attention or
persons not on the premises on which the sign is located. The following shall
be deemed to be excluded from the definition of the term SIGN, as it applies to
these regulations:
      (1)   Signs not exceeding two square feet in area and bearing only
property numbers, post box numbers or names of occupants of the premises;
      (2)   Flags and insignia of any government, except when displayed in
connection with a commercial promotion;
      (3)   Public signs of a public or non-commercial nature, which shall
include community service information signs, public transit service signs,
public utility information signs, safety signs, danger signs, trespassing
signs, signs indicating scenic or historical points of interest and all signs
erected by a public officer in the performance of a public duty;
      (4)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts or moving lights;
      (5)   Signs which are fully located within the interior of any building
or stadium, or within an enclosed lobby or court of any building; and signs
located within the inner or outer lobby, court or entrance of any theater which
are intended solely for information relating to the interior operation of the
building in which they are located; and
      (6)   Memorial plaques, grave markers, statues and other remembrances of
persons or events that are non-commercial in nature.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is to permit such signs that will not, by
reason or their size, location, construction or manner of display, endanger the
public safety of persons, confuse, mislead or obstruct the vision necessary for
traffic safety; or otherwise endanger public health, safety and morals; and to
permit and regulate signs in such a way as to support and complement the land
use objectives set forth in
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.003 ENFORCEMENT; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
    The Planning Director, or a designated representative, is hereby authorized
and directed to administer and enforce all the provisions of this chapter, and
shall have the right to enter any premises for inspection purposes during
reasonable hours and after reasonable notice has been given in order to ensure
the enforcement of this chapter. This chapter, in conjunction with the
prevailing Building Code and regulations of the state's Department of Highways
and Public Transportation, provides the guidelines and regulations for any and
all signs constructed, erected, altered, installed, relocated or renovated
within the corporate limits of the city and its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.004 RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)    No more than two permanent signs shall be allowed on one lot, except
those lots with double frontage, in which case a maximum of three permanent
signs will be permitted with at least one sign on each frontage. If a multi-
frontage development, another tenant sign may be permitted, but not to exceed
40 feet in height and 400 square feet per face.
   (B)   No site may utilize more than three different types of signs,
excluding temporary and exempted signs.
   (C)   Signs shall not create a nuisance to the occupancy of the reasonable
use of other properties as a result of the sign's size, height, brightness or
movement.
   (D)   Signs shall be in harmony with the building, the neighborhood or other
signs in the area, except when such other signs do not meet the purposes of
this chapter.
   (E)   No sign shall be allowed within the restricted area described as
follows: all of that portion of land lying within a triangular shaped corner
clip area on each street corner beginning at the precise intersecting point
where the two corner streets (would) intersect, and extending 30 feet along
such curb line alignment; thence from one such 30-foot extension to the other,
whether such land is privately owned or unpaved or untraveled street right-of-
way, or along similar property of private streets. Furthermore, no sign shall
be placed on public right-of-way without the prior approval of the City Council
and said sign permit and accompanying fee to be reassessed in approximately
one-year intervals so that the city may assess any evolving land use conditions
which may require the sign to be removed and/or relocated. In considering
approval or not to have a sign in public right-of-way, the city may consider
the intent and/or message of the community service sign, its size, location,
height, aesthetics and other similar features including liability and
maintenance aspects. If approved, the sign shall be subject to removal, at the
expense of the owner, upon a 30-day written notice to have said sign removed.
Also, if such private sign is approved on public right-of-way, the owner shall
sign and record a hold harmless agreement to be recorded in the office of the
County Clerk. The application fee to consider such a sign shall be $50 and, if
approved, a permit fee of $100 will be imposed prior to permit issuance.
   (F)   Searchlights may be allowed only on a temporary basis, but shall be
operated to not create a traffic hazard or risk traffic safety.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.005 APPEALS.
   (A)    Any person contesting any disapproval, interpretation and/or
application of any rule, standard, regulation, determination, requirement or
necessity set forth in this chapter shall have the right to appeal the decision
of the Planning Director to the Zoning Board of Adjustments (ZBA), as
established in
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances, and which will use their public hearing
procedures to consider such requests. The fees for such appeals, waivers and
variances shall be the same as for any zoning variance issue.
   (B)   The ZBA shall have the delegated jurisdiction to grant special
variance from the provisions of this chapter where it is found, upon
presentation of adequate proof that compliance with any provisions of this
chapter will result in an arbitrary and unreasonable taking of property or in
the practical closing or elimination of any lawful business, or a substantial
financial hardship or inequity in any case without sufficient corresponding
benefit or advantage of the city and its citizens in terms of accomplishing the
purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   The ZBA may permit such modification of the requirements of this
chapter as may be found necessary to avoid inconvenience arising because of the
location of existing structures or of topography. The ZBA may request, with the
approval of the City Manager's office, the attendance of the City Attorney to
any case brought before it where, in the opinion of the Planning Director and
the ZBA Chairperson, there will be a beneficial need of his or her presence and
legal guidance.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.006 INTERPRETATION; INTENT.
    The provisions of this chapter, or any amendments thereto, are minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public safe, health, convenience,
comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not intended by this
chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or
other agreements between parties, or any statute, local ordinance or
regulations; except that, if this chapter or any amendment thereto imposes a
greater restriction, or higher standard, this chapter of any amendment thereto
shall control.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.007 POSTING ON POLES.
    It shall be unlawful for any person, agency or entity, either private or
public, to leave or place upon trees or fences, street signs or on/in any
public right-of-way or city property or against any telephone or electric light
pole within the city any advertisement, ribbons and/or balloons or similar
items regardless of the message affixed to such signage.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023) Penalty, see
§
153.999
§ 153.008 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)    Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations or ordinances,
the most restrictive, or that imposing the higher standards, shall govern.
   (B)   Should any regulation, phrase, provision or section be in conflict
with any existing regulation or requirement, be it in ordinance format or
Building Code format, the more stringent provision shall prevail and be fully
enforceable.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
TYPES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
§ 153.020 SIGN TYPES.
    The various types of signs regulated by this chapter are hereby defined as
follows.
   ACCESSORY SIGN. A sign that is incidental to the effective operation of the
enterprise to which it pertains, and is not intended to serve as the primary
identification of the premises, and does not attract the attention of passers-
by for the purpose of advertising a product or service available therein.
   BANNER SIGN. Any temporary sign intended to be hung either with or without
frames, characters, letters, illustrations or ornamentations applied to paper,
plastic or fabric of any kind. National flags, flags of political subdivisions
and symbolic flags or any institution or business shall not be considered
BANNERS for the purpose of this chapter.
   BENCH SIGN. An off-premises sign located on any part of the surface of a
bench or seat placed on or adjacent to a public right-of-way.
   BILLBOARD SIGN. Any flat surface erected on a framework or on any structure,
or attached to posts and used for, or designed to be used for, the display of
bills, posters or other advertising material, for the purpose of advertising a
business, organization, event, person, place or thing not located on the same
premises as such advertising material, with one or two parallel and directly
opposite signs with their faces oriented in opposite directions.
   CANOPY SIGN. A sign that is hung, affixed or suspended beneath an awning or
canopy and is intended to identify a business, product or service primarily for
the benefit of pedestrian traffic.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
surface of the sign. A sign on which the only copy that changes, is an
electronic or mechanical indication of, for example, time and/or temperature
shall be considered the "time and temperature" portion of a sign and not a
CHANGEABLE COPY being for purposes of this chapter. All CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS
must comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Brightness. Maximum brightness shall not exceed 5,000 candelas per
square meter during daylight hours and 500 candelas per square meter between
dusk and dawn. The sign must have an automatic dimmer control to properly
adjust between one-half hour before sunset and one-half hour after sunrise.
Users must submit documentation of this capability and compliance.
      (2)   Colors. No changeable copy sign may be of such intensity or
brilliance as to interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign,
device or signal. Such signs shall not produce glare or other lighting
nuisance.
      (3)   Static intervals. Every message or picture display must remain
static for a minimum of ten seconds and must accomplish a change in display
within two seconds or less.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. Any temporary sign giving the name of architects,
engineers, builders, contractors, lending institutions and the like responsible
for construction on the site where the sign is placed, together with other
information included thereon.
   DIRECTORY SIGN. A sign on which the names and location of occupants or the
use of a building is given such as an office building, church and shopping
malls.
   GROUND AND/OR TENANT SIGN. Any sign which is supported by structures or
supports in or upon the ground and independent of support from any building,
for the purpose of directing attention to the general public to a lawful use of
the premises on which it is located. A TENANT SIGN shall be required on a
series of two or more commercial lots of the same development; it has a corner
side. A second TENANT SIGN shall always require the approval of the City
Council based on unforeseen, but unique circumstances that may be factored in
during such consideration.
   HOME OCCUPATION SIGN. Any sign that is no larger than one foot by one foot,
indicating the name of the occupant and/or occupation of a customary home
occupation as approved through the conditional use public hearing process. Once
the home occupation is deemed terminated, the sign shall be removed
immediately.
   MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign attached to and made a part of a marquee. A MARQUEE
is defined as a permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building wall
at an entrance to a building or extending along and projecting beyond the
building's wall and generally designed and constructed to provide protection
against the weather.
   POLITICAL SIGN. Any temporary sign whose sole purpose is the transmittal of
information concerning an upcoming political issue, election or campaign, or a
public issue or potential concern to the community as a whole. The intervals
between POLITICAL SIGNS shall be not less than 20 feet.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A movable sign that is not attached to a permanent support or
building, designed to be temporary and mobile.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. Any temporary sign which is used to offer for sale, lease
or rent the property upon which the sign is placed. No permit is required if
the sign has an area of 40 square feet or less.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected or constructed wholly upon any over the roof of
any building and supported solely on the roof structure.
   SNIPE SIGN. Any sign of any material whatsoever that is attached in any way
to a utility pole, tree or any object located or situated on public or private
property.
   STREET BANNER SIGN. Any sign that may be placed over public street right-of-
way. Such signs shall require the pre-approval of the City Manager's office and
the Police Chief to safeguard public traffic safety.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign affixed or attached to the interior or exterior of a
window, not to exceed in size the surface of the window area.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.021 EXEMPTED SIGNS.
    All signs indicated below shall not require a sign permit:
   (A)   Home occupation (via approved conditional use permits);
   (B)   Temporary political signs;
   (C)   Temporary real estate sign;
   (D)   Window signs;
   (E)   Construction signs;
   (F)   Signs placed on motor vehicles;
   (G)   Signs directing and guiding traffic;
   (H)   Yard sale signs; no such yard sale sign shall be placed on utility
poles, or in such a way to be in public rights-of-way (e.g., box signs in ROWs.
Once the yard sale is finished, all signs are to be immediately removed.);
   (I)   Gasoline price signs;
   (J)   Street banner signs hanging over a public right-of-way for a limited
time with the permission from the City Manager and Police Chief; and
   (K)   Any other temporary sign that the Planning Director may determine
would be unreasonable to require a permit for.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.022 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any sign which is not
included under the types of signs permitted in the relevant zoning district
regulations of which the property is situated.
   (B)   Prohibited signs include the following:
      (1)   Any sign which resemble an official traffic sign or signal which
bear the words "Stop", "Go Slow", "Caution", "Danger" or similar words and
which were not placed by proper governmental authority;
      (2)   Signs placed on trees, rocks, other natural features, utility
poles;
      (3)   Signs that block other signs, fire escapes, exit doors and exit
windows which would impede or restrict someone from exiting during an
emergency;
      (4)   Signs which emit sound, smoke or steam;
      (5)   Signs erected or placed within the public right-of-way shall be
immediately removed;
      (6)   Signs that are obsolete, damaged to an extent or more than 50% of
its fair market value, that do not meet the prevailing Building Code; out of
date political billboards, signs advertising defunct businesses and signs which
require a sign permit, but were erected without such a permit having been
issued;
      (7)   Signs that are not legible or in good repair, such as with broken
faces, faded and/or missing letters and the like; and
      (8)   Signs that are not securely fixed as per the Building Code.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.023 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Temporary construction sign. These signs shall be permitted on the
site of approved projects or developments. Temporary construction signs may be
erected and maintained for a period of 90 days prior to commencement of
construction and shall be removed by the owner within 60 days after completion
of building on the site.
   (B)   Temporary political sign. These signs may be placed in all zoning
districts, subject to any limitations in this chapter; however, and except for
polling places, such signs shall not be placed in the public right-of-way or
any railroad right-of-way. Political signs shall be removed within 15 calendar
days after the election is completed and decided and may not be placed before
the sixtieth day from the date of the election of which the political sign
advertises.
   (C)   Temporary real estate sign. These signs shall be located only upon the
premises for sale, lease or rent. Such signs may be erected no more than 30
days prior to construction and shall be removed within 30 days following the
sale or lease of the premises upon which the sign is located.
   (D)   Temporary banner sign. These signs shall not exceed three feet in
width and shall not require a permit. Typically, banner signs shall not be
wider than three feet.
   (E)   Abandoned sign. Except as otherwise provided, any sign that is located
on property which becomes vacant and is unoccupied for a period of three months
or more, or any sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose which no longer
applies, shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Permanent signs applicable to
a business temporarily suspended because of a change of ownership or management
of such business shall not be deemed abandoned unless the property remains
vacant for a period of six consecutive months or more. An abandoned sign is
prohibited and shall be removed by the owner of the sign, owner of the premises
or the Planning Director after written notice has been served via certified
mail.
   (F)   Unsafe sign. Should any sign become unsecured or in danger of falling
or otherwise be at risk of being unsafe, the owner of the sign and/or premises
shall be send a written notice of such opinion providing not more than ten
calendar days in which to secure the unsafe sign to a status of where it is
deemed "safe" by the Building Official. The owner may also remove said sign to
be in compliance. If such order is not complied within the ten-day allotted,
the city shall remove such sign at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof,
including filing a lien on said property.
   (G)   Non-conforming sign.
      (l)   Allowing non-conforming signs to remain in place indefinitely
hampers a primary function of this chapter which is to improve the aesthetics
of the overall community. For any non-conforming sign requiring removal, the
city shall reimburse the owner according to the provisions of state law (HB
1330).
      (2)   No non-conforming sign shall be repaired or renovated where the
effect of such repair or renovation shall be to enlarge or increase the
structure of the non-conforming sign. For the purposes of this section, normal
maintenance shall not be considered to be repair or renovation.
   (H)   Institutional sign. Such signs, when the institutional use is
permitted outright by either zoning or, if an option in a non-public zoning
district, via an approved conditional use permit, shall be entitled to one
temporary sign only per site, the maximum height to be no more than 15 feet;
the maximum square footage to be no more than 60 square feet; the building
setback to be no less than five feet to the property lines; and the maximum
number of advertising faces to be no more than two.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
SIGNS PERMITTED BY ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 153.035 AGRICULTURAL OPEN-INTERIM AND AGRICULTURAL OPEN PERMANENT DISTRICTS.
   (A)    Real estate, political, construction and/or commercial but only if
the agricultural items are produced on the premises and are sold on the
premises with the condition that a business permit has been legally issued for
said agricultural-related business.
   (B)   Additional requirements are as follows.
      (1)   No sign shall have less than a minimum setback of five feet from
any property line.
      (2)   No permanent sign shall have a face larger than 32 square feet.
      (3)   No sign shall exceed 15 feet in height.
      (4)   When computing the face area of an on-premises sign, the
measurement thereof shall be as outlined in this chapter.
      (5)   This section prohibits the use of vehicles and trailers, defined as
any motorized or non-motorized conveyance, as stationary mediums for displaying
signs under this chapter. It is unlawful to park, station, or leave any such
vehicle or trailer on both private and public property within the jurisdiction
of this section solely for the purpose of sign display. This rule applies
irrespective of the vehicle's or trailer's attendance status or the duration of
its parking or stationing.
      (6)   There shall be no limit to the number of political signs allowed
except that such signs are to be separated a minimum 50 feet apart to other
signs to avoid visual obstructions for purposes of safety and security.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.036 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
    The following signs are permitted in all residentially zoned districts as
classified by the city.
   (A)   Temporary signs shall comply as follows.
      (1)   Real estate signs shall be permitted; only one per residentially
subdivided site shall be permitted. If the residential site has double frontage
where the two streets fronting it do not intersect, said site may have two real
estate signs.
      (2)   Construction signs may be placed no more than 20 days prior to
construction, and shall be removed within 20 days after construction is
completed. The minimum setback shall be five feet, no more than 16 square feet
and the height shall not exceed ten feet.
      (3)   Political signs shall be limited to temporary signs, and shall
require each sign to be at ten feet intervals from each other. There is no
minimum setback prescribed, the maximum size to be no more than five square
feet and the height of all political signs in residential zones shall not be
more than four feet. Signs may be placed on fences but may not be placed within
15 feet of the corner of a property on the corner of an intersection to avoid
obstructions to driver safety.
      (4)    Home occupation signs shall be permitted pursuant to the
prevailing requirements of
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances that govern them; once the home occupation
ceases, all signage must be immediately removed.
      (5)   A subdivision sign may be permitted on the wall's entrance to said
subdivision subject to there being an officially recorded homeowner's
association that shall be responsible for its maintenance.
   (B)   Off-premises signs are prohibited in all residential zones.
   (C)   (1)   No sign shall have less than a minimum setback of five feet from
any property line.
      (2)   No permanent sign shall have a face larger than 32 square feet.
      (3)   No sign shall exceed 15 feet in height.
      (4)   No sign or part of any sign in the residential districts shall
move, flash, rotate or change its illumination. It is noted that temporary
holiday decorations are permitted though.
      (5)   No portable signs shall be permitted in any residential zoning
district.
      (6)   There shall be no limit to the number of political signs allowed in
the residential zoning districts; except that, they be spaced at ten-foot
intervals from each other to minimize visual clutter.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.037 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT AND OFFICE BUILDING DISTRICT.
    The following signs are permitted in the C-2 and C-1 Districts, except as
classified along the city's expressway's corridor.
   (A)   On-premises signs. The following on-premises signs shall be limited to
a combination of any two of the following permanent signs per business and/or
site, unless otherwise specified:
      (1)   Accessory sign.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet from all property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall be no more than 15 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be more than ten feet.
      (2)   Canopy signs. A canopy sign shall be limited to one permanent sign
per business and shall comply with the prevailing Building Code.
      (3)   Changeable copy sign.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to all property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not be over 100 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over 20 feet.
      (4)   Directory sign.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to all property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not be over 40 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over 20 feet.
      (5)   Ground/tenant sign. Ground/tenant signs shall be limited to one
permanent sign per site. In the case of a multi-unit building, one ground or
tenant sign will be allowed per site along with a wall sign, canopy sign or
roof sign for each business as permitted in this division (A)(5).
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to all property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not be over 32 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over 40 feet.
      (6)   Subdivision sign.
         (a)   Minimum setback: attached to a fence or wall at the entrance of
a subdivision shall be permitted;
         (b)   Maximum size: 32 square feet on each side of the entrance to the
subdivision; and
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over ten feet.
      (7)   Wall sign. Wall signs shall be limited to two per site, of which
there shall be no more than one facing in each direction. Wall signs shall
comply with the prevailing Building Code.
         (a)   Minimum setback: sign shall be attached or painted on wall or
fence.
         (b)   Maximum size shall be no more than 32 square feet of wall or
fence surface area.
   (B)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Banner signs shall be limited to one temporary banner per lot and
shall not exceed three feet in width. Such signs may be displayed for a period
of no more than 30 consecutive days. A permit shall be required for all banner
signs.
      (2)   Construction sign: shall be limited to one sign per site.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to all sides.
         (b)   Maximum size shall be no more than 32 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall be no more than ten feet.
      (3)   Portable signs shall be permitted on an "on-premises" basis and
only during the business' grand opening date which commences from the date the
city issues a business permit for such business. Portable signs shall be
removed no later than 30 calendar days from the grand opening date. No portable
signs shall be otherwise permitted.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet from property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall be no more than 32 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall be no more than ten feet.
      (4)   Political signs shall be limited to temporary signs and their
placement shall be at 20-foot intervals from each other; after the results of
the election, said political signs shall be removed in accordance to this
chapter.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to all property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall be no more than 32 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall be no more than ten feet.
         (d)   This section prohibits the use of vehicles and trailers, defined
as any motorized or non-motorized conveyance, as stationary mediums for
displaying signs under this chapter. It is unlawful to park, station, or leave
any such vehicle or trailer on both private and public property within the
jurisdiction of this section solely for the purpose of sign display. This rule
applies irrespective of the vehicle's or trailer's attendance status or the
duration of its parking or stationing.
      (5)   Real estate signs shall be limited to one temporary, non-
illuminated sign per site.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to all lot lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall be no more than 32 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall be no more than ten feet.
      (6)   Street banner signs shall be allowed on special occasion with the
permission of the City Manager and the Police Chief; such signs shall in no way
affect the traffic flaw's visibility.
   (C)   Off-premises signs. The following off-premises signs shall be limited
to one per site. A person may not place a sign on any property without first
obtaining written permission from the owner or the owner's authorized agent. A
bench sign shall be permitted subject to approval of the Planning Director and
the City Manager's office. Bench signs shall be allowed in C-1 and C-
2 Districts only at sites along a bus route or at locations characterized by
substantial pedestrian traffic. The number and spacing of such bench signs
shall be determined by the city.
   (D)   All signs under this section may be placed on fences, unless expressly
prohibited by setback limitations, but may not be placed within 15 feet of the
corner of a property on the corner of an intersection to avoid obstructions to
driver safety
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.038 GENERAL BUSINESS, HEAVY COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
    The following signs are permitted in the C-3, C-4 and I Districts, except
for said zoning districts along the city's expressway corridor (as defined in
this chapter).
   (A)   On-premises signs. The following on-premises signs shall be permitted,
limited to a combination of any two of the following permanent signs per
business site, unless otherwise specified:
      (1)   Accessory sign: allowed as required.
         (a)   Minimum setback is five feet to all property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size to be no more than 20 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height to be no more than ten feet.
      (2)   Canopy sign: shall be limited to one permanent sign per business
and shall comply with the prevailing Building Code.
      (3)   Changeable copy sign:
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to all property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size to be no more than 100 square feet
         (c)   Maximum height to be no more than 20 feet.
      (4)   Directory sign:
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to all property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size to be no more than 40 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height to be no more than 20 feet.
      (5)   Ground or tenant sign: in the case of a multi-unit building, one
ground pole or tenant sign, will be allowed per site.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to all property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size: one square foot per every linear foot of frontage
to a public street, not to exceed 200 square feet per face. In the case of a
multi-unit complex, a tenant sign may not exceed 200 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height: 50 feet, however, properties commercially or
industrially zoned that are within 1,200 feet from the expressway corridor and
having frontage to a state maintained road or thoroughfare, shall have
increased height consideration from 50 feet to 60 feet.
      (6)   Marquee sign: shall be limited to one permanent sign per site and
shall comply with the prevailing Building Code. Size of marquee shall not
exceed eight feet in width and 32 feet in length.
      (7)   Subdivision sign:
         (a)   Minimum setback: attached to fence or wall at the entrance of a
subdivision;
         (b)   Maximum size shall not exceed 40 square feet on each side of the
entrance to the subdivision; and
         (c)   Maximum height shall be no more than ten feet.
      (8)   Wall sign: shall be limited to four per premises, of which there
shall be no more than one facing each direction. Wall signs shall comply with
the prevailing Building Code.
         (a)   Maximum 10% of wall face, but no more than 500 square feet; any
wall sign over 500 square feet, but at 10% of the wall face, shall require the
prior approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission. Wall signs proposed along
the expressway corridor and secondary arterials, but zoned C-1 and C-2 shall
still only be permitted to have a maximum 64-square foot wall signs.
         (b)   Building setback: attached or painted to wall.
   (B)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs shall be limited to one temporary
sign per site and shall comply with all provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Banner signs: shall be limited to one temporary banner per lot and
shall not exceed three feet in width. Such signs may be displayed for a period
of no more than 30 consecutive calendar days. A permit shall be required for
all banner signs.
      (2)   Construction sign: shall be limited to one temporary construction
sign for each project or development and shall comply with all provisions of
this chapter.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be not less than five feet to property
lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall be no more than 40 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be more than ten feet.
      (3)   Portable signs shall be permitted on an "on-premises" basis and
only during the business grand opening date which commences from the date the
city issues a business permit for such business. Portable signs shall be
removed no later than 30 calendar days from the grand opening date. No portable
signs shall be otherwise permitted. Portable signs existing at the time of the
passage of this chapter shall be amortized and remain as is; however, once six
months elapse, such signs shall be removed from the property where it is not
visible to the public.
      (4)   Political sign: shall be limited to temporary signs and shall be
placed at no less than 20-foot intervals from each other. Such signs shall be
removed from the premises in accordance with this chapter.
         (a)   Minimum setback: may be placed up to the property line.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not exceed 32 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be more than ten feet.
         (d)   This section prohibits the use of vehicles and trailers, defined
as any motorized or non-motorized conveyance, as stationary mediums for
displaying signs under this chapter. It is unlawful to park, station, or leave
any such vehicle or trailer on both private and public property within the
jurisdiction of this section solely for the purpose of sign display. This rule
applies irrespective of the vehicle's or trailer's attendance status or the
duration of its parking or stationing.
      (5)   Portable sign: shall comply as follows.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to all property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not be over 32 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over ten feet.
      (6)   Real estate sign: shall be limited to one temporary sign per
approved site. Such signs may be erected no more than 30 days prior to
construction.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to all property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not be over 32 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over ten feet.
      (7)   Street banner sign shall be allowed on special occasions with the
permission of the City Manager and the Police Chief. Such signs shall in no way
affect traffic flow or visibility.
   (C)   Off-premises signs. The following off-premises signs shall be limited
to one per site. A person may not place a sign on the property of another
without first obtaining written permission from the owner or the owner's
authorized agent.
      (1)   Bench sign. Bench signs shall be permitted subject to approval of
the Planning Director and the City Manager's office which shall consider their
placement, number and spacing of bench signs prior to any approval or
conditional approval.
      (2)   Billboard sign. Off-premises billboard signs shall not be permitted
in the General Business (C-3), the Heavy Commercial (C-4) or the Industrial (I)
Districts, except as provided for in the expressway corridor and the secondary
arterial corridors.
   (D)   All signs under this section may be placed on fences, unless expressly
prohibited by setback limitations, but may not be placed within 15 feet of the
corner of a property on the corner of an intersection to avoid obstructions to
driver safety
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.039 EXPRESSWAY CORRIDOR AND SECONDARY ARTERIAL CORRIDOR DISTRICTS.
    This section specifies which signs are permitted in the city's expressway
corridor and secondary arterials.
   (A)   On-premises signs. The following on-premises signs shall be permitted,
limited to a combination of any two of the following permanent signs per
business and/or commercially or industrially zoned site, unless otherwise
specified:
      (1)   Accessory sign:
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to property lines;
         (b)   Maximum size shall be no more than 60 square feet;
         (c)   Maximum height shall be no more than 18 feet;
         (d)   Separation: 50 feet from any other sign or accessory sign; and
         (e)   Landscaping: one square foot of landscaping around the proposed
accessory sign per every square foot of accessory sign's face.
      (2)   Canopy sign: shall be limited to one permanent sign per business
and shall comply with the prevailing Building Code.
      (3)   Changeable copy sign:
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to property lines;
         (b)   Maximum size shall be no more than 484 square feet; and
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over 60 feet.
      (4)   Directory sign:
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to property lines;
         (b)   Maximum size shall not be over 40 square feet; and
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over 20 feet.
      (5)   Portable signs shall be permitted on an "on-premises" basis and
only during the business' grand opening date which commences from the date the
city issues a business permit for such business. Portable signs shall be
removed no later than 30 calendar days from the grand opening date. No portable
signs shall be otherwise permitted. Any portable sign existing at the time of
the passage of this chapter shall be amortized and remain as is; however, once
six months elapse from the passage of this chapter, such signs shall be removed
from the property where it is not visible to the public as alerted in writing
by the city to the owners/tenants of the subject property.
      (6)   Ground or tenant sign: in the case of a multi-unit building, one
ground or tenant sign will be allowed per site.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not be over 800 square feet (maximum four
faces).
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over 80 feet.
      (7)   Marquee sign: shall be limited to one permanent sign per site and
shall comply with the prevailing Building Code. Size of marquee cannot exceed
eight feet in width and 32 feet in length.
      (8)   Roof sign: shall be limited to one permanent sign per site and
shall comply with the prevailing Building Code. Size of roof sign cannot exceed
four feet in height and 16 feet in length.
      (9)   Subdivision sign:
         (a)   Minimum setback: attached to fence or wall at the entrances of
the subdivision;
         (b)   Maximum size shall not be over 40 square feet on each side of
entrance(s) to the subdivision; and
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over ten feet in height.
      (10)   Wall sign: shall be limited to four per premises, of which there
shall be no more than one wall sign facing each direction. Wall signs shall
comply with the prevailing Building Code.
         (a)   Maximum 10% of wall face, but no more than 500 square feet; any
wall sign over 500 square feet, but at 10% of the wall face shall require the
site plan approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Wall signs proposed
along the expressway corridor and secondary arterials, but zoned C-1 and C-
2 shall still only be permitted to have a maximum 64 square foot wall signs.
         (b)   Maximum setback: attached or painted on the structure's wall.
   (B)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs shall be permitted as listed in this
section. Such signs shall be limited to one temporary sign per site.
      (1)   Banner signs: shall be limited to one temporary banner per lot and
shall not exceed three feet in width. Such signs may be displayed for a period
of no more than 30 consecutive days. A permit shall be required for all banner
signs.
      (2)   Construction sign: shall be limited to one temporary construction
sign for each project or development.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not exceed 40 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over ten feet.
      (3)   Political sign: shall be limited to one temporary sign including
the 20-foot interval to other signs on adjoining properties. All such political
signs shall be removed in accordance to this chapter.
         (a)   Minimum setback: may be anywhere within the property.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not exceed 32 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not exceed eight feet.
         (d)   This section prohibits the use of vehicles and trailers, defined
as any motorized or non-motorized conveyance, as stationary mediums for
displaying signs under this chapter. It is unlawful to park, station, or leave
any such vehicle or trailer on both private and public property within the
jurisdiction of this section solely for the purpose of sign display. This rule
applies irrespective of the vehicle's or trailer's attendance status or the
duration of its parking or stationing.
      (4)   Portable signs shall comply with the following.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not exceed 40 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not exceed ten feet.
      (5)   Real estate sign: shall be limited to one temporary sign per
approved site. Such signs may be erected no more than 30 calendar days prior to
construction and shall comply with the following.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to the property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not exceed 40 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not exceed ten feet.
      (6)   Street banner sign: shall be allowed on special occasions with the
permission of the City Manager and the Police Chief. Such banner signs shall in
no way affect traffic flow or obstruct visibility.
   (C)   Off-premises signs. The following off-premises signs shall be
permitted, limited to one per site. A person may not place a sign on the
property of another without first obtaining written permission from the owner
or the owner's authorized agent.
      (1)   Bench sign. Bench signs shall be permitted subject to approval of
the Planning Director and the City Manager's office. The placement, number and
spacing of bench signs shall be factored in prior to any approval or
conditional approval.
      (2)   Billboard sign-expressway corridor. Billboard signs shall only be
permitted along the commercially or industrially zoned properties along the
expressway corridor, and to a lesser degree, along the defined secondary
arterial corridor, and no billboard, new or its replacement, shall be permitted
along any other street, arterial or thoroughfare.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not be over 672 square feet per face (maximum
two faces).
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over 80 feet.
         (d)   Spacing: off-premises billboards shall not be erected within
1,500 feet of any other off-premises sign, said spacing radius to also include
any other off-premises sign that may be located on the opposite side of the
expressway.
         (e)   Any billboard sign that proposed LED lights and/or electronic or
motorized motion components shall first be approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission under site plan approval and then presented to the City Council for
its final action. Any contractor proposing such type signs must also provide
the LED details on illumination, brightness, timed intervals for rotating
messages and the like.
      (3)   Billboard sign-secondary arterial corridor. Billboard signs along
the defined secondary arterial corridor shall comply with the following
requirements when such properties are commercially or industrially zoned.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not be over 484 square feet per face (maximum
two faces).
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over 60 feet.
         (d)   Spacing: off-premises billboards shall not be erected within
1,320 feet from any other billboard sign, and shall be beyond a 1,000-foot
radius of institutional uses such as a church, park or school, and located so
as to not create traffic or a visual nuisance. There shall be no electronic or
LED billboard signs along the secondary arterial corridor.
   (D)   All signs under this section may be placed on fences, unless expressly
prohibited by setback limitations, but may not be placed within 15 feet of the
corner of a property on the corner of an intersection to avoid obstructions to
driver safety.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.040 PUBLIC ZONE DISTRICT.
    The following signs are permitted in the public zone districts as
classified by the city.
   (A)   On-premises signs. The following on-premises signs shall be limited to
a combination of any two of the following permanent signs per site, unless
otherwise specified:
      (1)   Accessory sign:
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to property lines;
         (b)   Maximum size to be no more than 16 square feet; and
         (c)   Maximum height to be no more than ten feet.
      (2)   Canopy sign: shall be limited to one permanent sign per entity and
shall comply with the prevailing Building Code.
      (3)   Changeable copy sign:
         (a)   Minimum setback five feet to property lines;
         (b)   Maximum size to be no more than 40 square feet; and
         (c)   Maximum height to be no more than 20 feet.
      (4)   Directory sign:
         (a)   Minimum setback to be five feet to property lines;
         (b)   Maximum size to be no more than 40 square feet; and
         (c)   Maximum height to be no more than 20 feet.   
      (5)   Ground/tenant sign: shall be limited to one permanent sign per
site.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall be no more than 60 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height to be no more than 30 feet.
      (6)   Wall sign: shall be limited to two per site, of which there shall
be no more than one facing in each direction. Wall signs shall comply with the
prevailing Building Code.
         (a)   Minimum setback: attached or painted on wall or fence.
         (b)   Maximum size shall be no more than 64 square feet of wall or
fence.
   (B)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs shall be permitted as allowed in this
division (B). Such signs shall be limited to one temporary sign per site.
      (1)   Banner signs shall be limited to one temporary banner per lot and
shall not exceed three feet in width. Such signs may be displayed for a period
of no more than 30 consecutive days. A permit shall be required for all banner
signs.
      (2)   Construction sign shall be limited to one temporary sign per site
and shall comply with the following.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not exceed 40 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not exceed ten feet.
      (3)   Portable signs shall be permitted on an "on-premises" basis and
removed no later than 30 calendar days from the date the permit is issued for
its usage.
      (4)   Political signs shall be limited to temporary signs and, as much as
possible, shall comply with 20-foot intervals between political signs, banners
and the like; such political signs shall be removed in accordance to this
chapter, if additional time is needed to have the public entity make removal
arrangements, then the City Manager's office is so authorized to allow such
unique extensions.
         (a)   Minimum setback: anywhere on the property.
         (b)   Maximum size per sign shall not exceed 32 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not exceed ten feet.
         (d)   This section prohibits the use of vehicles and trailers, defined
as any motorized or non-motorized conveyance, as stationary mediums for
displaying signs under this chapter. It is unlawful to park, station, or leave
any such vehicle or trailer on both private and public property within the
jurisdiction of this section solely for the purpose of sign display. This rule
applies irrespective of the vehicle's or trailer's attendance status or the
duration of its parking or stationing.
      (5)   Portable sign:
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to property lines;
         (b)   Maximum size shall not be over 40 square feet; and
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over ten feet.
      (6)   Real estate signs shall be limited to one temporary, non-
illuminated sign per site.
         (a)   Minimum setback shall be five feet to property lines.
         (b)   Maximum size shall not be over 40 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum height shall not be over ten feet.
      (7)   Street banner signs shall be allowed on special occasion with the
permission of the City Manager's office and the Police Chiefs office; such
signs shall in no way affect the traffic flow or obstruct visibility.
   (C)   Proposals. Since not all type of signage can be realistically
determined for all public properties by all public entities, as defined herein,
if there is a proposal to erect a sign, either temporary or otherwise, that is
not classified above, then that sign proposal shall be considered for action by
the City Council after deliberation to do so by the Planning Director and the
City Manager.
   (D)   All signs under this section may be placed on fences, unless expressly
prohibited by setback limitations, but may not be placed within 15 feet of the
corner of a property on the corner of an intersection to avoid obstructions to
driver safety
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
COMPLIANCE WITH CODES AND STANDARDS
§ 153.055 COMPLIANCE.
    All signs hereafter shall comply with all applicable provisions of this
chapter, with the prevailing Building Code relating to structural design, and
to the city's Electrical Code, and other similar construction codes as may be
adopted from time to time.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.056 STRUCTURAL AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Design and stress diagrams. Before a permit shall be granted, the
erector of every outdoor advertising sign, with the exception of temporary
signs, shall submit to the Building Official or duly authorized representative
a design and stress diagram or plan containing the design and stress
specifications for such sign.
   (B)   Wind pressure. All outdoor advertising displays shall be constructed
to withstand the wind pressure as specified by the prevailing Building Code.
   (C)   Plastic materials. All outdoor advertising displays suing plastic
materials, wholly or partially, shall comply with the specifications stipulated
in the prevailing Building Code.
   (D)   Measurements of sign area. The size of a sign shall be measured from
the outside dimensions of the sign structure and frame. A sign may have one or
more display faces, unless otherwise specified. For off-premises signs which
are double faced, each face is considered a separate sign in computing the face
area. For on-premises signs which are double faced, each face is considered a
separate sign in computing the face area if each face is advertising a
different business on the property. If the face area of an on-premises sign is
identical on both sides, then the face area is computed by measuring one side
only.
   (E)   Setbacks. The setbacks shall be measured from the outside frame of the
sign. Setbacks are determined according to the type of sign and zoning district
in which it is located. Under no circumstances shall a private sign be allowed
to project into a public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.057 INSPECTIONS.
    To ensure compliance, the Planning Director, Building Official or other
duly authorized representative shall have the right to enter any premises for
inspection purposes during reasonable hours.
   (A)   Foundation inspection. A foundation inspection is required of all
permanent outdoor advertising displays constructed of block or brick or for
which footings are required. Such inspections shall be made after trenches are
excavated and any reinforcing steel is in place and prior to the placing of
concrete. At no time shall concrete be poured without it being inspected and
approved by the city.
   (B)   Setback inspection. A setback inspection is required of all signs,
permanent and temporary. Setbacks shall be inspected at the time the foundation
inspection is made for permanent signs and prior to the placing of concrete and
after placement for temporary signs.
   (C)   Electrical inspection. An electrical inspection is required of all
illuminated signs. All electrical work shall be done by a master licensed
electrician. It shall be the responsibility of the electrician to call for the
required inspection.
   (D)   Succeeding interval of inspections. Work shall not be done on any part
of the sign installation beyond the point indicated in each successive
inspection without first obtaining the approval of the Planning Director,
Building Official or other duly authorized city official.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.058 MAINTENANCE, REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR.
   (A)   Maintenance. All signs for which a permit is required by this chapter,
together with all their supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in
good repair and, unless constructed of galvanized or non-corroding metal, shall
be thoroughly painted at least once every two years. The Planning Director,
Building Official or other duly authorized city official, may, after due notice
is given, order the removal of any sign that is not maintained in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. Such removal shall be at the expense of
the owner or lessee.
   (B)   Replacement or repair. When any sign or a substantial part of any sign
is blown down or otherwise destroyed or taken down or removed for any purpose
other than maintenance operations or for changing the letters, symbols or other
matter on the sign, it may not be re-erected, reconstructed or rebuilt, except
in full conformance with the provisions and requirements of this chapter,
including whether said sign is permitted or not under zoning assessment. For
purposes of this provision, a sign or substantial part of a sign is considered
to have been destroyed only if the cost of repairing such sign is more than 50%
of the original cost of the existing sign at the same location.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.059 REMOVAL OF SIGNS ORDERED BY CITY.
   (A)    The Building Official, or duly authorized representative, shall cause
to be removed any sign that endangers the public safety, such as an abandoned,
dangerous or materially, electrically or structurally defective and/or unstable
sign; or a sign for which no permit has been issued. A notice shall be prepared
which shall describe the sign and specify the violation involved, and which
shall state that, if the sign is not removed or the violation is not corrected
within ten calendar days, the sign shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All notices mailed by the Planning Department under this section shall
be sent by certified mail. Any time periods provided in this section shall be
deemed to commence on the date of mailing the certified letter. For all other
signs, the notice shall be mailed to the owner of the property on which the
sign is located as shown on the last tax roll.
   (C)   The property owner where such sign is situated may appeal the
determination of the Building Official ordering removal or compliance by filing
a written notice of appeal accompanied with a completed application for a
public hearing with the Zoning Board of Adjustment within 10 calendar days
after the date of the mailed notice, or within 10 days after receipt of the
notice if the notice was not mailed.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, in cases of dire
emergency which poses an immediate life and safety threat to the general
public, the Building Official or duly authorized representative, after
consulting the City Manager's office, may cause the immediate removal of a
dangerous or defective sign without notice, but shall provide reasonable
photographic and/or video evidence of the deemed emergency.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
PERMITS
§ 153.070 REQUIRED APPLICATION.
    It shall be unlawful to display, erect, relocate, rebuild, reconstruct, or
alter any sign without first filing with the city an application for obtaining
a sign permit, with the exception of temporary signs.
   (A)   The application for a sign permit shall be made by the owner or tenant
of the property on which the sign is to be located, or the authorized agent, or
a sign contractor. Such applications shall be made in writing on forms
furnished by the city and shall be signed by the applicant.
   (B)   The Planning Director or his or her duly authorized representative
shall, within ten working days of the date of the application being fully and
completely filed with all required data, either approve or deny the application
or refer the application back to the applicant in any instance where
insufficient information may be evident.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023) Penalty, see
§
153.999
§ 153.071 PLANS.
    Every application for a permit under this subchapter shall be accompanied
by a plan or plans drawn to scale of the proposed sign and all existing signs
maintained on the premises, and shall include:
   (A)   Dimensions of the sign and/or wall it will be affixed unto;
   (B)   The dimensions of the sign's supporting members;
   (C)   The maximum and minimum height of the sign;
   (D)   The location of the sign in relation to the face of the building
including a current photograph;
   (E)   The location of the sign in relation to the subject property's
boundaries;
   (F)   The location of any other buildings and signs on the same property;
   (G)   The name, address and other contact data of the owner and/or
contractor;
   (H)   The street address of the proposed sign structure;
   (I)   The legal description of the property where the sign is proposed to be
located;
   (J)   An application for any related electrical permit necessitated by the
proposed sign;
   (K)   A statement of valuation; and
   (L)   The license numbers of the contractors who will actually be performing
the proposed work.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.072 FEES.
   (A)    The application for a sign permit shall tender the required fee
according to the following schedule:
 
Sign Value      Fee                                       Fee if Electrified
$0 - $2,000     $20                                       $35
$2,001 - $4,000 $45                                       $60
$4,001 - $8,000 $70                                       $90
Over $8,000     $80 + $5 for each additional $1,000 value Add $50
 
   (B)    Should any person actually begin any work for which a permit is
required by the city without taking out a permit therefor, he or she shall pay
a double permit fee pursuant to typical city policy.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.073 DEVIATION FROM TERMS.
   (A)    When a sign permit has been issued by the city, it shall be unlawful
to change, modify, alter or otherwise deviate from the terms or conditions of
such permit without prior approval. A written record of such (modified)
approval shall be entered upon the original permit application and maintained
in the files of the Inspections Division.
   (B)   Permits, once approved, cannot be transferred to another sign or
property, and the sign may not be moved to another location without another
permit first being filed for.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.074 TIME LIMIT FOR OBTAINING APPROVED PERMIT.
    If a sign permit required by this subchapter is not obtained within 120
calendar days after the applicant has been notified, either by documented
telephone call or in writing, that the plans are approved, the Planning
Director shall reasonably assume that the application is withdrawn and may
destroy the plans, specifications and calculations. Renewed action shall
require a new plan and induce the typical application process.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.075 TIME LIMIT FOR COMPLETION.
    If the work authorized under a sign permit has not been commenced and/or
completed within four months after the date of issuance, such permit shall
become null and void, and there shall be no refund of any fee paid. If there is
a justifiable reason to warrant an extension, the Planning Director may grant
such extension up to an additional four months; provided that, there is a
written request made prior to the expiration of the permit.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
    Any property owner or tenant violating any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in
this chapter. Prosecution or conviction under this provision shall never be a
bar to any other remedy or relief for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07A, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2023-18-O, passed 12-5-2023)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
154.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
154.08   Establishment of development permit
   
154.09   Compliance
   
154.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.11   Interpretation
   
154.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
154.25   Floodplain Administrator
   
154.26   Permit procedures
   
154.27   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.40   General standards
   
154.41   Specific standards
   
154.42   Subdivision proposal standards
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in the Flood-Control Insurance Act, Tex.
Water Code § 16.315, delegated the responsibility of local governmental units
to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood-proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH or VO zone on a
community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed
rate-making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30 VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30 or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year. Also called the BASE FLOOD.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, milling,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or
storage of equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before 1-1-1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as Zones A, M
and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works (for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See definition of FLOODING.)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood- control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary, for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after 12-31-1974, whichever is later, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes,
NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the “start of construction”
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued; provided, the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before “start of construction” of the improvement. This term
includes structures, which have incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of
the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements, see § 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3),
(e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard with the
jurisdiction of city.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the Flood Insurance Study for Hidalgo, County dated 11-16-
1982 and Flood Insurance Rate Map (Map Panel 4803340400C) dated 11-16-1982,
Community Number, 481656 dated 11-16-1982 and any revisions thereto are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.25 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Planner is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 C.F.R. (Emergency Management and Assistance - National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
      (4)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is
required;
      (5)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation;
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the
state’s Coordinating Agency which is the state’s Water Development Board (TWDB)
and also the state’s Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (7)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained; and
      (8)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
154.07 of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
§§
154.40 through
154.42 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure shall be flood- proofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the non-residential flood-proofed structure shall meet the flood-proofing
criteria of §
154.41(B) of this chapter;
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
154.25(B)(2) of this chapter.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.27 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level; providing, the relevant factors in §
154.26(B) of this chapter have been fully considered.
      (2)   As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (§
154.03 of this chapter).
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use; provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) above are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
154.07,
154.25(B)(8) or
154.42(C) of this chapter, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this subsection as proposed in §
154.26(A)(1) of this chapter is satisfied.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division (B). A record of such certification which includes the
specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
flood-proofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood
waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize
flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top
or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces;
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites outside
of a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement; and
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
this division (D) be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the
base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.42 SUBDIVISION PROPOSAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
154.02,
154.03 and
154.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
154.08,
154.26 and
154.40 through
154.42 of this chapter.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
154.07 or
154.25(B)(8) of this chapter.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this court order
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this court
order by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this court order or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $500 for each violation and, in addition, shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent City
Council from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 8-19-2014)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Authority and scope of rules
   
155.02   Purpose
   
155.03   Effective date
   
155.04   Plat required
   
155.05   Conflicting regulations
   
155.06   Severability
   
155.07   Definitions
   
155.08   Enforcement
   
155.09   Variances
Minimum Standards
   
155.20   Scope of standards
   
155.21   Water facilities development
   
155.22   Wastewater disposal
   
155.23   Greywater systems for reuse of treated wastewater
   
155.24   Sludge disposal
   
155.25   Setbacks
   
155.26   Number of dwellings per lot
Plat Approval
   
155.40   Applications for plat approval
   
155.41   Final engineering report
   
155.42   Additional information
   
155.43   Financial guarantees for improvements
   
155.44   Review and approval of final plats
   
155.45   Time extension for providing facilities
   
155.46   Criteria for subdivisions that occurred prior to 9-1-1989
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF RULES.
   These rules are adopted by the city under the authority of Tex. Local
Government Code Ch. 212 and Tex. Water Code § 16.350. Notwithstanding any
provisions to the contrary, these rules apply only to a subdivision which
creates two or more lots of five acres or less intended for residential
purposes. Lots of five acres or less are presumed to be for residential
purposes unless the land is restricted to non- residential uses on the final
plat and in all deeds and contracts for deeds.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these rules to promote the public health of the city’s
residents, to ensure that adequate water and wastewater facilities are provided
in subdivisions within the corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city and to establish the minimum standards for water and wastewater
facilities.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These rules became effective 4-25-2000.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.04 PLAT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of a tract of land located within the corporate limits of
the city or within the city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction who divides the
tract in any manner that creates two or more lots of five acres or less
intended for residential purposes must have a plat of the subdivision prepared.
   (B)   No subdivision land shall be sold or conveyed until the subdivider:
      (1)   Has received approval of a final plat of the tract; and
      (2)   Has filed and recorded with the County Clerk in which the tract is
located a legally approved plat.
   (C)   A DIVISION OF A TRACT is defined as including a metes and bounds
description, or any description of less than a whole parcel, in a deed of
conveyance or in a contract for a deed, using a contract of sale or other
executory contract, lease/purchase agreement or using any other method to
convey property.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.05 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   These rules supersede any conflicting regulations of the city.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any part or provision of these regulations, or application thereof, to
any person or circumstances is adjudged invalid by any court or competent
jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its operation to the part,
provision or application directly involved in the controversy in which such
judgment shall have been rendered and shall no affect or impair the validity of
the remainder of these regulations or the application thereof to other persons
or circumstances. The city hereby declares that it would have enacted the
remainder of these regulations without any such part, provision or application.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Palmview, Texas. Any reference to an act of the CITY shall
be deemed to include acts of the City Council.
   COUNTY. The County of Hidalgo, Texas.
   DRINKING WATER. Water distributed by any agency or individual, public or
private, for the purpose of human consumption, use in the preparation of foods
or beverages, cleaning any utensil or article used in the course of preparation
or consumption of food or beverages for human beings, human bathing or clothes
washing.
   ENGINEER. A person licensed and authorized to practice engineering in the
state under the state’s Engineering Practice Act.
   FINAL PLAT. A map or drawing and any accompanying material of a proposed
subdivision prepared in a manner suitable for recording in the county records
and prepared as described in these regulations.
   LOT. An undivided tract or parcel of land.
   NON-PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. Any water system supplying water for domestic
purposes which is not a public water system.
   OSSF. On-site sewage facilities, as that term is defined in rules and/or
regulations adopted by TXRCC, including, but not limited to, 30 TAC Ch. 285.
   PLATTED. Recorded with the county in an official plat record.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A system for the provision to the public of water for
human consumption through pipes or other constructed conveyances, which
includes all uses described under the definition for drinking water. Such a
system must have at least 15 service connections or serve at least 25
individuals at least 60 days out of the year. This term includes any
collection, treatment, storage and distribution facilities under the control of
the operator of such system and used primarily in connection with such system;
and any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such control
which are used primarily in connection with such system. Two or more systems
with each having a potential to serve less than 15 connections or less than 25
individuals, but owned by the same person, firm or corporation and located on
adjacent land will be considered a PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM when the total potential
service connections in the combined systems are 15 or greater or if the total
number of individuals served by the combined systems total 15 or more at least
60 days out of the year. Without excluding other meanings of the terms
“individual” or “served”, an individual shall be deemed to be served by a water
system if he or she lives in, uses as his or her place of employment or works
in a place to which drinking water is supplied from the system.
   PURCHASER. Purchasers under executory contracts for conveyance of real
property.
   RETAIL PUBLIC UTILITY. Any entity meeting the definition of a “retail public
utility”, as defined in Tex. Water Code § 13.002.
   SANITARIAN. A person registered as a professional sanitarian by the state’s
Department of Health under the authority of Tex. Civil Statutes Art. 4477-3.
   SEWERAGE FACILITIES. The devices and systems which transport domestic
wastewater from residential property, treat the wastewater and dispose of the
treated water in accordance with the minimum state standards contained or
referenced in these rules.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any owner of land or authorized agent thereof proposing to
subdivide or dividing land so as to constitute a subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. Any tract of land divided into two or more pans that results in
the creation of two or more lots of five acres or less intended for residential
purposes. A SUBDIVISION includes resubdivision (replat) of land which was
previously divided.
   TAC. Texas Administrative Code, as compiled by the Texas Secretary of State.
   TNRCC. Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission.
   WATER FACILITIES. Any devices and systems which are used in the supply,
collection, development, protection, storage, transmission, treatment and/or
retail distribution of water for safe human use and consumption.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Oversight. The owner, by submitting a plat, acknowledges the authority
of the city and state agencies to lawfully enter and inspect property for
purposes of execution of their statutory duties. Such inspection will not
release the owner from any obligation to comply with the requirements of these
rules.
   (B)   General enforcement authority. The provisions of this chapter are
enforceable pursuant to the specific provisions hereof related to enforcement
and state law, including Tex. Water Code Ch. 7, §§ 16.352, 16.353, 16.3535,
16.354 and 16.3545 and Tex. Local Government Code §§ 212.0175 and § 212.018.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.09 VARIANCES.
   The city will allow, in limited circumstances, the use of multiple water
meters within any single lot. Said permit shall be issued in certain extreme
circumstances, issued by and under written authority from only the City
Manager. Any such permit will be issued to a specific individual and shall not
run or carry with the lot or subsequent owner.
(Ord. 2011-01, passed 2-1-2011)
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 155.20 SCOPE OF STANDARDS.
   The establishment of a residential development with two or more lots of five
acres or less where the water supply and sewer services do not meet the minimum
standards of this subchapter is prohibited. A subdivision with lots of five
acres or less is presumed to be a residential development unless the land is
restricted to non-residential use on the final plat and all deeds and contracts
for deeds.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.21 WATER FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Public water systems.
      (1)   Subdividers who propose to supply drinking water by connecting to
an existing public water system must provide a written agreement with the
retail public utility in substantially the form attached to the ordinance
codified here (in App. 1A). The agreement must provide that the retail public
utility has or will have the ability to supply the total flow anticipated from
the ultimate development and occupancy of the proposed subdivision for a
minimum of 30 years. The agreement must reflect that the subdivider has paid
the cost of water meters and other necessary connection equipment, membership
fees, water rights acquisition costs or other fees associated with connection
to the public water system so that service is immediately available to each
lot.
      (2)   Where there is no existing retail public utility to construct and
maintain the proposed water facilities, the subdivider shall establish a retail
public utility and obtain a certificate of convenience and necessity (CCN) from
the TNRCC. The public water system, the water quality and system design,
construction and operation shall meet the minimum criteria set forth in 30 TAC
§§ 290.38 through 290.51 and 290.101 through 290.120. If ground water is to be
the source of the water supply, the subdivider shall have prepared and provide
a copy of a ground water availability study which shall include an analysis of
the long-term (30 years) quantity and quality of the available ground water
supplies relative to the ultimate needs of the subdivision. If surface water is
the source of supply, the subdivider shall provide evidence that sufficient
water rights have been obtained and dedicated, either through acquisition or
wholesale water supply agreement, that will provide a sufficient supply to
serve the needs of the subdivision for a term of not less than 30 years.
   (B)   Non-public water systems.
      (1)   Where individual wells or other non-public water systems are
proposed for the supply of drinking water to residential establishments, a test
well or wells located so as to be representative of the quantity and quality of
water generally available from the supplying aquifer shall be drilled by the
subdivider and the produced waters sampled and submitted to a private
laboratory for a complete chemical and bacteriological analysis of the
parameters on which there are drinking water standards. The subdivider shall
have prepared and provide a copy of a ground water availability study which
shall include an analysis of the long-term (30 years) quantity of the available
ground water supplies relative to the ultimate needs of the subdivision.
      (2)   The water quality of the water produced from the test well must
meet the standards of water quality required for community water systems as set
forth in 30 TAC §§ 290.103, 290.105, 290.106 and 290.110, either:
         (a)   Without any treatment to the water; or
         (b)   With treatment by an identified and commercially available water
treatment system.
   (C)   Transportation of potable water. The conveyance of potable water by
transport truck or other mobile device to supply the domestic needs of the
subdivision is not an acceptable method, except on an emergency basis. Absence
of a water system meeting the standards of these rules due to the negligence of
the subdivider does not constitute an emergency.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.22 WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Organized sewerage facilities.
      (1)   Subdividers who propose the development of an organized wastewater
collection and treatment system must obtain a permit to dispose of wastes from
the TNRCC in accordance with 30 TAC Ch. 305 and obtain approval of engineering
planning materials for such systems under 30 TAC Ch. 317 from the TNRCC.
      (2)   Subdividers who propose to dispose of wastewater by connecting to
an existing permuted facility must provide a written agreement in substantially
the form attached to the ordinance codified herein (in App. 1B) with the retail
public utility. The agreement must provide that the retail public utility has
or will have the ability to treat the total flow anticipated from the ultimate
development are occupancy of the proposed subdivision for a minimum of 30
years. The agreement must reflect that the subdivider has paid the cost of all
fees associated with connection to the wastewater collection and treatment
system have been paid so that service is immediately available to each lot.
Engineering plans for the proposed wastewater collection lines must comply with
30 TAC Ch. 317, Figure: 31 TAC § 364.33(a)(2).
   (B)   On-site sewerage facilities.
      (1)   On-site facilities which serve single-family or multi-family
residential dwellings with anticipated wastewater generations of no greater
than 5,000 gallons per day must be designed by a registered professional
engineer or registered professional sanitarian, permitted by the authorized
agent of the TNRCC and, in all respects, comply with 30 TAC Ch. 235.
      (2)   Proposals for on-site sewerage facilities for the on-site disposal
of sewage in the amount of 5,000 gallons per day or greater must comply with 30
TAC Ch. 317.
      (3)   The TNRCC or its authorized agent shall review proposals for on-
site sewage disposal systems and make inspections of such systems as necessary
to assure that the system is in compliance with the Tex. Health and Safety Code
Ch. 366 and rules in 30 TAC Ch. 235 and, in particular, §§ 285.4, 285.5 and
285.30 through 285.39. In addition to the unsatisfactory on-site disposal
systems listed in 30 TAC § 235.3(b), pit privies and portable toilets are not
acceptable waste disposal systems for lots platted under these rules.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.23 GREYWATER SYSTEMS FOR REUSE OF TREATED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Organized or municipal sewerage systems. Any proposal for sewage
collection, treatment and disposal which includes greywater reuse shall meet
minimum criteria of 30 TAC Ch. 210 and Ch. 235, Subch. H, promulgated and
administered by the TNRCC.
   (B)   On-site sewerage facilities. Any proposal for on-site sewage disposal
which includes provisions for greywater use shall meet the minimum criteria of
30 TAC Ch. 235 contained within the “Construction Standards for On-Site
Sewerage Facilities”, promulgated by the TNRCC.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.24 SLUDGE DISPOSAL.
   The disposal of sludge from water treatment and sewerage facilities shall
meet the criteria of 30 TAC Ch. 312 and Ch. 317.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.25 SETBACKS.
   In areas that lack a nationally recognized fire code as listed in Tex. Local
Government Code § 235.002(b)(2) and lack water lines sized for fire protection,
setbacks from roads and rights-of-way shall be a minimum of ten feet, setbacks
from adjacent property lines shall be a minimum of five feet, and shall not
conflict with separation or setback distances required by rules governing
public utilities, on-site sewerage facilities or drinking water supplies.
Setback lines required elsewhere in the orders or rules or the city shall
control, to the extent greater setbacks are therein required.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.26 NUMBER OF DWELLINGS PER LOT.
   (A)   No more than one single-family detached dwelling shall be located on
each subdivision lot.
   (B)   (1)   A notation of this restriction shall be placed on the face of
the final plat.
      (2)   This restriction shall be placed in all deeds and contracts for
deeds for real estate sold within the subdivision.
   (C)   Where otherwise authorized, proposals which include multi-family
residential structures shall include adequate, detailed planning materials
required by the city for determination of proper water and wastewater utility
type and design.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
PLAT APPROVAL
§ 155.40 APPLICATIONS FOR PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Owner representation. An application for approval of a plat shall be
filed by the record owner of the property to be subdivided or the duly
authorized agent of the record owner.
   (B)   Standards. Every plat creating two or more tots of five acres or less
for residential use shall comply with the standards of §§
155.20 through
155.26 of this chapter and the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.41 FINAL ENGINEERING REPORT.
   The final plat shall be accompanied by an engineering report bearing the
signed and dated seal of a professional engineer registered in the state. The
engineering report shall discuss the availability and methodology of providing
water facilities and wastewater treatment service to individual lots within the
subdivision. A detailed cost estimate per lot acceptable to the city shall be
provided for those unconstructed water supply and distribution facilities and
for wastewater collection and treatment facilities which are necessary to serve
each lot of the subdivision. The plan shall include a construction schedule for
each significant element needed to provide adequate water or wastewater
facilities. If financial guarantees are to be provided under §
155.43 of this chapter, the schedule shall include the start dates and
completion dates.
   (A)   Public water systems.
      (1)   Where water supplies are to be provided by an existing public water
system, the subdivider shall furnish an executed contractual agreement in
substantially the form attached to the ordinance codified herein (in App. 1A)
between the subdivider and the retail public utility to the effect that the
retail public utility has or will have the ability to supply the total flow
anticipated from the ultimate development and occupancy of the proposed
subdivision for a minimum of 30 years and that the subdivider has provided for
the payment of costs or fees for the connection of each individual lot to the
public water system, including water meters, water acquisition fees or other
necessary expenses required by the retail public utility. Before final plat
approval, plans and specifications for the proposed water facilities shall have
been approved by all entities having jurisdiction over the proposed project,
which may include the TNRCC and the county’s Health Department in addition to
the responsible departments of the city. If ground water is to be the source of
the water supply, the final engineering report shall include a ground water
availability study which shall include comments regarding the long-term (30
years) quantity and quality of the available ground water supplies relative to
the ultimate needs of the subdivision.
      (2)   Where there is no existing retail public utility to construct and
maintain the proposed water facilities, the subdivider shall establish a retail
public utility and obtain a certificate of convenience and necessity (CCS) from
the TNRCC and include evidence of the CCN issuance with the plat. Before final
plat approval, plans and specifications for the proposed water facilities shall
have been approved by all entities having jurisdiction over the proposed
project. If ground water is to be the source of the water supply, the final
engineering report shall include a ground water availability study which shall
include an analysis of the long-term (30 years) quantity and quality of the
available ground water supplies relative to the ultimate needs of the
subdivision. If surface water is the source of supply, then the final
engineering report shall include evidence that sufficient water rights have
been obtained and dedicated, either through acquisition or wholesale water
supply agreement, that will provide a sufficient supply to serve the needs of
the subdivision for a term of not less than 30 years.
   (B)   Non-public water systems. Where individual wells are proposed for the
supply of drinking water to residences, the final engineering report shall
include the quantitative and qualitative results of sampling the test wells in
accordance with §
155.21(B) of this chapter. The results of such analyses shall be made available
to the prospective property owners. If the water quality of the test well
required pursuant to §
155.21(B) of this chapter does not meet the water quality standards as set
forth in that section without treatment by an identified and commercially
available water treatment system, then the final report must state the type of
treatment system that will treat the water produced from the well to the
specified water quality standards, the location of at least one commercial
establishment within the county at which the system is available for purchase,
and the cost of such system, the cost of installation of the system, and the
estimated monthly maintenance cost of the treatment system. The engineer shall
issue a statement concerning the availability of ground water supplies to serve
the fully developed subdivision over the next 30 years. Such statement may be
based on information available from the State Water Development Board’s Office
of Planning. The description of the required sanitary control easement shall be
included.
   (C)   Organized sewerage facilities.
      (1)   Where wastewater treatment is to be provided by an existing retail
public utility, the subdivider shall furnish evidence of a contractual
agreement in substantially the form attached to the ordinance codified herein
(in Appendix 1B) between the subdivider and must provide that the retail public
utility has or will have the ability to treat the total flow anticipated from
the ultimate development and that the subdivider has paid the cost of all fees
associated with connection to the wastewater collection and treatment system
have been paid so that service is immediately available to each lot. Before
final plat approval, an appropriate permit to dispose of wastes shall have been
obtained from the TNRCC and plans and specifications for the proposed
wastewater collection and treatment facilities shall have been approved by all
entities having jurisdiction over the proposed project.
      (2)   Where there is no existing retail public utility to construct and
maintain the proposed sewerage facilities, the subdivider shall establish a
retail public utility and obtain a CCN from the TNRCC. Before final plat
approval, a wastewater treatment permit authorizing the treatment of the
wastewater for the ultimate build-out population of the subdivision shall have
been obtained from the TNRCC and plans and specifications for the proposed
sewerage facilities shall have been approved by all entities having
jurisdiction over the proposed project.
   (D)   On-site sewerage facilities. Where private on-site sewerage facilities
are proposed, the final engineering report shall include planning materials
required by 30 TAC § 285.4(c), including the site evaluation described by 30
TAC § 285.30 and all other information required by applicable OSSF regulations.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.42 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The city may, at its option, require additional information necessary
to determine the adequacy of proposed water and wastewater improvements as pan
of the plat approval process.
   (B)   Such information may include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Layout of proposed street and drainage work;
      (2)   Legal description of the property;
      (3)   Existing area features;
      (4)   Topography;
      (5)   Floodplains;
      (6)   Description of existing easements;
      (7)   Layout of other utilities;
      (8)   Notation of deed restrictions;
      (9)   Public use areas; or
      (10)   Proposed area features.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.43 FINANCIAL GUARANTEES FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability. If an adequate public or non-public water system or
sewerage facility is not available from a retail public utility, or are not
constructed by the subdivider, to serve lots intended for residential purposes
of five acres or less at the time final plat approval is sought, then the city
shall require the owner of the subdivided tract to execute an agreement with
the city in substantially the form attached to the ordinance codified herein
(in App. 2A) secured by a bond, irrevocable letter of credit or other
alternative financial guarantee such as a cash deposit which meet the
requirements set forth below.
   (B)   Bonds. A bond that is submitted in compliance with division (A) above
shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   The bond or financial guarantee shall be payable to the Mayor of
the city, in his or her official capacity, or the Mayor’s successor in office.
      (2)   The bond or financial guarantee shall be in an amount determined by
the city to be adequate to ensure proper construction or installation of the
public or non-public water facilities, and wastewater facilities to service the
subdivision, including reasonable contingencies, but in no event shall the
amount of the bond be less than the total amount needed to serve the
subdivision as established by the engineer who certifies the plat.
      (3)   The bond shall be executed with sureties as may be approved by the
city. The city shall establish criteria for acceptability of the surety
companies issuing bonds that include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Registration with the Secretary of State and be authorized to do
business in state;
         (b)   Authorization to issue bonds in the amount required by the city;
and
         (c)   Rating of at least “B” from Best’s Key Rating Guide; or if the
surety company does not have any such rating due to the length of time it has
been a surety company, the surety company must demonstrate eligibility to
participate in the surety bond guarantee program of the Small Business
Administration and must be an approved surety company listed in the current
United States Department of Treasury Circular 570. Such bonds shall meet the
criteria contained, in the rules and regulations promulgated by the United
States Department of Treasury.
      (4)   The bond shall be conditioned upon construction or installation of
water and wastewater facilities meeting the criteria established by §§
155.20 through
155.26 of this chapter and upon construction of facilities within the time
stated on the plat, or on the document attached to the plat for the
subdivision, or within any extension of time granted by the city.
   (C)   Letter of credit. A letter of credit that is submitted in compliance
with division (A) above shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Any letter of credit submitted as a financial guarantee for
combined amounts greater than $10,000 and less than $250,000 must be from
financial institutions which meet the following qualifications:
         (a)   Bank qualifications:
            1.   Must be federally insured;
            2.   Sheshunoff rating must be “10” or better and primary capital
must be at least 6% of total assets; and
            3.   Total assets must be at least $25 million.
         (b)   Savings and loan association qualifications:
            1.   Must be federally insured;
            2.   Tangible capital must be at least 1.5% of total assets and
total assets must be greater than $25 million or tangible capital must be at
least 3% of total assets if total assets are less than $25 million; and
            3.   Sheshunoff rating must be “30” or better.
         (c)   Other financial institutions qualifications:
            1.   The letter of credit must be 110% collateralized by an
investment instrument that would meet the qualifications for a city investment;
and
            2.   The investment instrument must be registered in the city’s
name and the city must receive safekeeping receipts for all collateral before
the letter of credit is accepted.
      (2)   Any letter of credit submitted as a financial guarantee for
combined amounts greater than $250,000 must be from financial institutions
which meet the following qualifications:
         (a)   Bank qualifications:
            1.   Must be federally insured;
            2.   Sheshunoff rating must be “30” or better and primary capital
must be at least 7% of total assets; and
            3.   Total assets must be at least $75 million.
         (b)   Savings and loan association qualifications:
            1.   Must be federally insured;
            2.   Tangible capital must be at least 3.0% of total assets and
total assets must be greater than $75 million, or tangible capital must be at
least 5% of total assets if total assets are less than $75 million; and
            3.   Sheshunoff rating must be “30” or better.
         (c)   Other financial institutions qualifications:
            1.   The letter of credit must be 110% collateralized by an
investment instrument that would meet the qualifications for a city investment;
and
            2.   The investment instrument must be registered in the city’s
name and the city must receive safekeeping receipts for all collateral before
the letter of credit is accepted.
      (3)   The letter of credit shall list as sole beneficiary the Mayor of
the city, in his or her official capacity, or the Mayor’s successor in office,
and must be approved by the city. The form of the letter of credit shall be
modeled after the form attached to the ordinance codified herein (in Appendix
2B).
      (4)   The letter of credit shall be conditioned upon installation or
construction of water and wastewater facilities meeting the criteria
established under §§
155.20 through
155.26 of this chapter and upon construction of facilities within the time
stated or the plat, or on the document attached to the plat for the
subdivision, or within any extension of time granted by the city.
   (D)   Financial guarantee. The city will determine the amount of the bond,
letter of credit or cash deposit required to ensure proper construction of
adequate water and wastewater facilities in the subdivision.
   (E)   Alternative to city accepting a financial guarantee. The city may
approve a final plat under this section without receiving a financial guarantee
in the name of the city if:
      (1)   The property being subdivided lies wholly within the
extraterritoral jurisdiction of a municipality; and
      (2)   The city has executed an interlocal agreement with the county that
imposes the obligation on the county to:
         (a)   Accept the bonds, letters of credit or other financial
guarantees, that meet the requirements of this section;
         (b)   Execute the construction agreement with the subdivides; and
         (c)   Assume the obligations to enforce the terms of the financial
guarantee under the conditions set forth therein and complete construction of
the facilities identified in the construction agreement.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.44 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Scope of review. The city will review a final plat to determine
whether it meets the standards of §§
155.20 through
155.26 of this chapter and the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Disapproval authority. The city shall refuse to approve a plat if it
does not meet the requirements prescribed by or under these rules.
   (C)   Prerequisites to approval. Final plat approval shall not be granted
unless the subdivider has accomplished the following:
      (1)   Dedicated the sites for the adequate water and sewerage facilities
identified in the final plat to the appropriate retail public utility
responsible for operation and maintenance of the facilities;
      (2)   Provided evidence that the water facilities and sewerage facilities
have been constructed and installed in accordance with the criteria established
within these rules and the approvals from TNRCC of the plans and specifications
for such construction, including any change orders filed with these agencies;
or
      (3)   Obtained all necessary permits for the proposed water facilities
and sewerage facilities (other than for OSSF permits on individual lots within
the proposed subdivision) and has entered into a financial agreement with the
city secured by a bond or other alternative financial guarantee such as a cash
deposit or letter of credit for the provision of water and sewerage facilities
with the bond or financial guarantee meeting the criteria established in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.45 TIME EXTENSION FOR PROVIDING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Reasonableness. The city may extend, beyond the date specified on the
plat or on the document attached to the plan the date by which the required
water and sewer service facilities must be fully operable if:
      (1)   Any financial guarantees provided with the final plat as originally
submitted are effective for the time of the requested extension or new
financial guarantees that comply with §
155.43 of this chapter are submitted which will be effective for the period of
the extension; and
      (2)   The city finds the extension is reasonable and not contrary to the
public interest.
   (B)   Timeliness. If the facilities are fully operable before the expiration
of the extension period, the facilities are considered to have been made fully
operable in a timely manner.
   (C)   Unreasonableness. An extension is not reasonable if it would allow a
residence in the subdivision to be inhabited without water or sewer services
that meet the standards of §§
155.20 through
155.26 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 155.46 CRITERIA FOR SUBDIVISIONS THAT OCCURRED PRIOR TO 9-1-1989.
   (A)   Authority and scope. This section shall apply only to tracts of land
that were divided into two or more parts to lay out a subdivision before 9-1-
1989 and have not been platted or recorded.
   (B)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to promote the public
health of the city’s residents, to ensure that adequate water and sewerage
facilities are provided in subdivisions within the city and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction, and to establish the minimum standards for pre-
1939 subdivisions for which no plat has been filed or recorded in the records
of the county.
   (C)   Required plat. In the event that the owner of a tract of land located
within the city or its extraterritorial jurisdiction who subdivided the tract
into two or more plats to lay out a subdivision of the tract prior to 9-1-1989,
including an addition, or to lay out suburban lots or building lots, and to lay
out streets, alleys, squares, parks or other parts of the tract intended to be
dedicated to public use or for the use of purchasers or owners of lots fronting
on or adjacent to the streets, alleys, squares, parks or other parts was
legally obligated to, but has failed to, have a plat of the subdivision
prepared, approved by the city, and filed with the county, the owner of a
residential let which was created by the subdivision may have a plat of the
individual lot prepared and approved by the Commissioners Court as provided in
this section in lieu of the filing of a plat of the subdivision.
   (D)   Special criteria. The city may approve the plat of a residential lot
which does not comply with the provisions of §§
155.04,
155.25,
155.26,
155.41 and
155.43 of this chapter as applied to an individual subdivided lot if such
approval is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this chapter so
that the public health, safety and welfare may be secured and substantial
justice done.
      (1)   Owners of individual lots in a single unplatted subdivision may
file a joint request for approval of their respective individual residential
lots.
      (2)   An application for approval of the plat of an individual lot shall
be made in writing. The application shall state specifically the division or
section with which the plat does not comply and from which a waiver is being
requested. The application shall contain available information and
documentation which supports the requested approval. The applicant shall also
provide such additional documentation as the city may request to support the
application, including:
         (a)   A copy of a dated plat, sales contract, utility records or other
acceptable documentation that the subdivision occurred prior to 9-1-1989;
         (b)   The name and address of the original subdivider or the
subdivider’s authorized agent, if known;
         (c)   A survey and plat of the lot for which approval is requested,
showing existing residences, roads and utilities; and
         (d)   A deed, an affidavit of ownership or other evidence of ownership
of the lot for which approval is requested.
      (3)   Approval of plats of individual lots shall be granted subject to
the limitations of state law, and based on written findings by the city that:
         (a)   The lot for which approval is requested is within a tract that
was subdivided prior to 9-1-1989 and is not owned by the original subdivider;
         (b)   A plat was required for the subdivision, but has not been filed
with the county by the subdivider legally obligated to file it;
         (c)   An existing, currently occupied residential dwelling is located
on the lot;
         (d)   Existing water and sewer services which comply with the minimum
standards set forth in this chapter are available to the lot; and
         (e)   The request is reasonable, compliance with specified sections of
these rules is impractical and a waiver is not contrary to the public health
and safety.
   (E)   Final determination. The city shall make the final decision on an
application for a waiver. The applicant may withdraw a request for a waiver at
any point in the process. If the requested waiver application is approved, the
city shall issue a certificate stating that a plat of the residential lot has
been reviewed and approved.
(Ord. 2001-05, passed - -2001; Ord. 2001-07, passed 12-10-2001)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING AND LAND USE
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Short title
   
156.002   Definitions
   
156.003   Official zoning map
   
156.004   Enforcement
   
156.005   Effect upon existing permits, agreements, rights and the like
   
156.006   Business permit
   
156.007   Severability
   
156.008   Cumulative provisions
District Boundaries
   
156.020   Establishment of zoning districts and zoning map
   
156.021   Boundaries; official zoning map
   
156.022   Determination of boundaries
   
156.023   Purpose
   
156.024   District boundaries
   
156.025   Newly annexed land
   
156.026   Accessory uses and conditions
Use Districts and Conditional Uses
   
156.040   Land use districts
   
156.041   AO-I Agricultural Open-Interim
   
156.042   Agricultural Open Permanent Space
   
156.043   R-1 Single-Family Residential
   
156.044   R-1T Townhouse Residential
   
156.045   R-2 Duplex-Fourplex Residential
   
156.046   R-3 Multi-Family Residential
   
156.047   R-4 Mobile Home District
   
156.048   C-1 Office Building District
   
156.049   C-2 Neighborhood Commercial District
   
156.050   C-3 General Business District
   
156.051   C-4 Heavy Commercial District
   
156.052   I-1 Industrial District
   
156.053   Public Zoning District
Conditional Uses; Permits
   
156.065   Purpose
   
156.066   Approval, procedure, responsibility and appeals
   
156.067   Application, filing procedures and fees
   
156.068   Site plans and floor plans required
   
156.069   Requirements for approval
   
156.070   Development, revocation and/or automatic cancellation of permit
   
156.071   Period of conditional use and renewal
   
156.072   Conditions of conditional use
Specific Regulations
   
156.085   Landscaping and buffering
   
156.086   Commercial and industrial area requirements
   
156.087   Exceptions and modifications
   
156.088   Portable buildings
   
156.089   Obscene materials and sexual activities
Off-Street Parking
   
156.100   Off-street parking required during permit process
   
156.101   Definitions
   
156.102   Minimum requirements
   
156.103   Computing parking requirements
   
156.104   Location of parking spaces
   
156.105   Loading space
   
156.106   Minimum dimensions
   
156.107   Pavement standards
   
156.108   Minimum ingress requirements for parking lots
   
156.109   Exceptions; appeals and variances
Non-Conformances
   
156.120   Non-conforming uses
   
156.121   Non-conforming structures
   
156.122   Non-conforming uses of structures or premises
   
156.123   Repairs and maintenance
Board of Adjustments
   
156.135   Organization
   
156.136   Procedures and appeals
   
156.137   Powers
   
156.138   Administrative cost
Amendments, Supplements and Changes
   
156.150   General
   
156.151   Procedure
   
156.152   Public hearings
   
156.153   Rulings
   
156.154   Protests and recommendations for denial
   
156.155   Appeals for conditional use permits
   
156.156   Administrative cost
   
156.157   Applications for zoning change
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited and referred to as “The City of Palmview’s Zoning
Ordinance” and is being established pursuant to the authority and intent of
Tex. Local Government Code Title 7, Subtitle A, Ch. 211, Subch. A.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; and words in
the future tense include the present tense; words in the singular number
include the plural number, and words in the plural number include the singular
number; the word “building” includes the word “structure”; the word “lot”
includes the word “plot”; the word “shall” is mandatory and not permissive; the
word “may” is permissive and not mandatory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING. A subordinate use or structure customarily
incident to and located on the lot occupied by the main use or structure and
conforming with setbacks and other regulations concerning location.
      ADOPTED POLICIES. A written administrative directive discussed at a
public meeting and officially adopted by a majority vote of the City Council.
      ALLEY. A minor public right-of-way which is used primarily for vehicular
and utility service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
a public street.
      APARTMENT. A room or suite or rooms located in a building with other such
rooms or suites arranged, designed or to be occupied as a residence by a person
and/or family.
      ASSOCIATED RECREATION. Recreational uses which are an integral part of a
common ownership or associated or high density residential development (e.g., a
homeowner’s association with a private club, swimming pool and tennis courts).
      AUTHORIZED AGENT. An architect, builder, developer, engineer, attorney or
other person empowered to act on behalf of other persons.
      BAR, COCKTAIL LOUNGE, TAVERN, SALOON, CANTINA. An establishment where
alcoholic beverages are sold for on-premises consumption, other than a
restaurant, as defined in this section.
      BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY. An owner-occupied private home which offers
lodging for paying guests and which serves meals only to those guests. One off-
street parking space per available room shall be required.
      BOARDINGHOUSE. A building other than a motel or hotel where lodging and
meals for five or more persons are provided for compensation.
      BUFFER. A visual screen made of wood, masonry, landscape material and/or
other permanent material so adjacent properties will be screened from the
proposed commercial or industrial use. Such BUFFER shall be horizontal to the
ground, opaque and a minimum of six feet in height; however, the City Council
may increase the height to eight feet in the Public Zoning District when deemed
appropriate to conditional use permit issues that are being considered for
action.
      BUILDING. Any structure designed to be built for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattel or property of any kind.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line defining an area on the building lot
between the street right-of-way and all other property lines and the building
line within which no building shall be constructed, encroach or project, except
as specifically authorized by the exceptions and modifications provisions and/
or by the Zoning Board of Adjustments.
         (a)   FRONT BUILDING SETBACK. A line parallel to the street right-of-
way line (or a private street) which the building faces and typically takes its
primary access from.
         (b)   REAR BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to an adjacent lot,
alley or street in the case of double frontage lots, which the building backs
up to, and has its rear or secondary access from.
         (c)   SIDE BUILDING SETBACK. A line parallel to an adjacent lot or
street right-of-way on a corner lot, which the building sides up to.
      CARPORT. A roofed structure open on at least two sides covered with a
roof supported by structural steel, masonry or wood columns.
      CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the interment of human
remains and dedicated for cemetery purposes including, but not limited to,
crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and
within the boundary of such CEMETERY. The above term may also be applied to a
pet and/or animal cemetery.
      CITY FACILITIES. Public improvements undertaken by the city for the
benefit of the general public that primarily deal with utility service delivery
to magnify water, sanitary sewer and/or storm sewer improvements. Such CITY
FACILITIES shall not be interpreted to mean “city buildings”, since such would
be classified as institutional.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan of the city, and includes any
component or a part of such component that may be separately adopted and any
amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A use which may be suitable in certain locations in a
zoning district if developed and operated under specific conditions and/or for
a limited period of time.
      CONDOMINIUM. A multi-family dwelling unit, within which designated
dwelling units are conveyed fee simple title, with an undivided interest in the
building’s common elements, to include, but not be limited to, halls, stairs,
elevators, roof, parking spaces and the land when the building is not
constructed on leased land.
      CREMATORIUM. A structure containing a retort used for intended to be used
for cremation of human remains.
      DIRECTOR OF PLANNING. The duly authorized employee or representative of
the city in charge of planning functions and charged with implementation and
enforcement of the subdivision, zoning and other growth-related ordinances and
policies.
      DISTRICT. A zoning section of the city for which the regulations
governing the land uses, areas, heights or uses of buildings are uniform.
      DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE WINDOW. A commercial establishment that provides a
driveway approach for motor vehicles so the business can provide service to
such motorist patrons while they are waiting in their vehicles for their goods
and/or services.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any building or portion thereof which is designed for or
used primarily for residential occupancy, but not including hotels,
boardinghouses or mobile homes, trailers, motor coaches or other recreational
vehicles.
         (a)   SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for and/or occupied
exclusively by one family as a separate dwelling unit.
         (b)   DUPLEX. A building designed for and/or occupied exclusively by
two families living independently of each other on a single lot.
         (c)   TRIPLEX. A building designed for and/or occupied exclusively by
three families living independently of each other on a single lot.
         (d)   FOURPLEX. A building designed for and/or occupied exclusively by
four families living independently of each other on a single lot.
         (e)   MULTI-FAMILY. A building designed for and/or occupied
exclusively by fire or more families living independently of each other.
         (f)   DETERMINATION OF UNIT SIZE. The determination of whether one
family is living independent of another is based on one or more of the
following criteria: separate sanitary facilities; separate kitchen facilities;
separate entrance; separate utilities (water, electrical).
      EXPRESSWAY CORRIDOR. The areas along the north and south sides, within a
distance of 600-foot depth therefrom, of U.S. Expressway 83.
      FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, adoption or marriage,
living together as a single household unit, exclusive of household servants, or
a number of persons not exceeding four adults, not related by marriage, and
their dependent children and/or parents, living together as a single household
unit.
      GARAGE APARTMENT. A dwelling unit attached to a private garage.
      GARAGE, COMMERCIAL. A building or premises used for storage, repair,
rental or servicing of motor vehicles.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building attached or detached, designed or
used for the storage of motor-driven vehicles owned and used only the occupants
of the building to which it is accessory. At no time may a garage be used for
residential occupancy without first obtaining a building permit and assuring
that the minimum number of off-street parking spaces are still evident after
completion.
      GUESTHOUSE. An accessory building designed for the temporary occupancy of
guests of the primary dwelling for which there is no remuneration and is not
rented or otherwise used as a separate domicile. Typically, a conditional use
permit is required for a GUESTHOUSE to be recognized as a use authorized to be
activated on the premises.
      HEIGHT. The height of a building or portion of a building shall be the
vertical distance from grade to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof,
the deck line of a mansard roof and the mean height level between eaves and
ridge for hip, gable, or gambrel roofs. In measuring the HEIGHT of a building,
the following structures shall be excluded: chimneys; cooling towers; elevator
bulkheads; mechanical rooms; tanks; water towers; radio towers; television
antennas; ornamental cupolas; domes or spires; and parapet walls not exceeding
four feet in height.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An activity carried on by a member of the immediate
family, residing on the premises, that meets the provisions of §
156.072(A) of this chapter.
      HOTEL and/or MOTEL. A building occupied as a temporary abiding place of
individuals at which parking may be conveniently located at each unit and where
there are more than six sleeping rooms provided for compensation. A building
that is condo-owned, but hotel-used, shall be considered a HOTEL.
      INSTITUTION. A non-profit organization or building, public or private for
the benefit of the public, or educational facilities, churches, temples,
hospitals, clubs, fire stations, police stations, libraries, museums, city
offices, public parks, public parking lots, drainage ponds larger than 34 acres
(small ponds may be permitted in all zoning districts), water tower sites and
the like, but not to include minor public utility properties such as lift
station sites, or regional drain ditches or irrigation canal systems.
      LOADING SPACE. A space within the main building or on the same lot
therewith, providing for the standing, loading or unloading of trucks and
having a minimum dimension of 12 feet by 35 feet and a vertical clearance of 14
feet.
      LOT. An undivided tract or parcel of land having frontage on a public or
private street, or upon an approved open space, having direct street access and
which is, or in the future may be, offered for sale, conveyance, transfer or
improvement, which is designated as a distinct and separate tract, and which is
identified by a lot number or symbol in a duly approved subdivision plat which
has been properly recorded in the county’s map records.
         (a)   CORNER LOT. A lot abutting upon two or more public streets at
their intersection.
         (b)   LOT DEPTH. The length of a line connecting the midpoints of the
front and rear lot lines.
         (c)   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot abutting on two non-intersecting
streets as distinguished from a corner lot.
         (d)   LOT FRONTAGE. The length of street frontage between side
property lines.
         (e)   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
         (f)   LOT, IRREGULAR. Any lot not having unequal front, rear and/or
side lot lines; also, a lot fronting on a sharp curve or a cul-de-sac lot.
      LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot, as defined herein.
         (a)   FRONT LOT LINE. The property line between the front yard and the
contiguous street right-of-way (or that of a private street).
         (b)   LOT WIDTH. The distance measured along a straight line
connecting the mid-point of the two side lot lines.
         (c)   MINIMUM LOT AREA. The minimum area of the lot includes internal
sidewalks, recreation areas, floor space, parking area, open space and utility
easements, but does not include any public right-of-way, street easements or
alley easements.
         (d)   REAR LOT LINE. The property line between the rear yard and the
adjacent property or right-of-way (unless on a private street/alley) and
contiguous with the legal boundary of such use.
         (e)   SIDE LOT LINE. The property line between two adjacent lots or
between the side yard and the contiguous street right-of-way (unless a private
street/alley) boundary on corner lots.
      LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land which is part of a subdivision, the map
or plat of which has been recorded in the office of the County Clerk; or a
tract of land that has pre-existed the adoption of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances (i.e., grandfathered status recognized as a
“lot of record”, as long as it remained the same in size and configuration).
      MANEUVERING SPACE. The space entirely on private property required for
maneuvering vehicles in such a manner as to preclude the backing of any vehicle
into any street.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling which is constructed on a
chassis, and which is designed to be towed over public streets and highways
under special permit, designed for permanent or semi-permanent occupancy,
designed primarily to be used without a permanent foundation, but which may sit
on a permanent foundation, and designed to be connected to utilities. It may
consist of one or more units that can be telescoped when transported and
expanded late for additional capacity, or of two or more units, separately
transportable, but designed to be joined together into one integral unit. The
following shall not be included in this definition: travel trailers; pick-up
coaches; motor homes; camping trailers; fifth wheels; or other recreational
vehicles; or manufactured modular housing which is designed to be set on a
permanent foundation, and which uses standard sheathing, roofing, siding and
electrical, plumbing and heating systems.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A unified development of typically five acres or more
for mobile homes arranged on a tract of land owned by an individual,
corporation or single business entity for the purpose of renting or leasing
spaces; at no time shall a park be converted into a “lots for sale” effect
without first recording an approved re-plat reflecting compliance to area
requirements for such individual lots to then be separately sold.
      MOBILE HOME SPACE. An area within a mobile home park which is designed
for land designated as the location for a single mobile home and the exclusive
use of its occupants.
      MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A unified development typically of five acres or
more for mobile homes arranged on a tract of land in such a manner as to
provide an individual lot for each of the mobile homes or other mobile unit as
the case may be.
      MODULAR HOMES. A dwelling unit in which more than 50% of the structure is
constructed at other than the construction site, brought to the site in modules
and set on a permanent foundation.
      NIGHTCLUB, DANCE HALL. An establishment whose primary activity is the
provision of facilities for dancing, including a dance floor, and live
entertainment and/or amplified music. Such establishment may or may not provide
on-premises consumption of alcoholic beverages. Schools of dance are exempted
from this definition.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. A building structure and/or use of land lawfully
occupied at the time of the effective date of this chapter or amendments
thereto, and which does not conform to the use regulations of the district in
which it is located.
      PARKING AREA. Space used for the parking of motor vehicles.
      PARKING SPACE. A paved asphalt, cement or similar all-weather surface
area, and connected to a street and/or alley by a paved driveway affording
satisfactory ingress and egress. The minimum dimensions of (striped) off-street
parking spaces shall be in accord to adopted ordinances.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, firm, corporation, governmental
agency or political subdivision.
      PORTABLE BUILDING. A temporary building that does not have a foundation
and is transportable. A PORTABLE BUILDING sitting on concrete or similar
pavement without sufficient anchoring via prevailing Building Code regulations
shall still be considered PORTABLE and shall not be deemed “site built”.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure
built on a chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel,
recreational uses, permanently identified travel trailer by the manufacturer of
the trailer and, when factory equipped for the road, it shall have a body width
not exceeding eight feet and a body length not exceeding state maximums.
      RESTAURANT. A building or portion of a building (suite), where the
primary business is the on-premises sale of prepared food, with adequate
facilities for the preparation of the food to be sold.
      RETAIL. The sale of goods directly to a consumer. Engaged in, pertaining
to or relating to the sale of merchandise at retail. To sell by individual
items or by the piece, directly to the consumer.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and
the public right-of- way.
      SIGN. See Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances for definitions of various
types of signs permitted to be used within the various zoning districts.
      SERVANT’S QUARTERS. An accessory building or portion of a main building
located on the same lot as the main building and used as living quarters for
servants employed on the premises and not rented or otherwise used as a
separate domicile.
      SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home and/or recreational vehicle
park designated for the accommodation of one mobile home or one recreational
vehicle or similar mobile unit, together with such open space as required by
local ordinances.
      STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal
means of access to abutting property, excluding alleys.
      STRUCTURE. Any thing constructed, erected or built up, or composed of
parts and joined together in a permanent manner.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams and/or girders.
      TOURIST COURT. See HOTEL and/or MOTEL.
      TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a series, or
group of units having common fire-rated walls, each on a separately owned lot.
However, a TOWNHOUSE CONDOMINIUM differs in that dwelling units are conveyed
fee simple title, with an undivided interest in the development’s common
elements, to include, but not be limited to, parking spaces, common recreation
areas and the land upon which the building is constructed.
      WHOLESALE. The sale of commodities for the purpose of resale, as to
retailers or jobbers rather than to consumers directly. Of, pertaining to or
engaged in sale at wholesale.
      YARD. An open space between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except as otherwise herein provided. In measuring a YARD for the
purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard or
the depth of a rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line
and the main building shall be used.
         (a)   FRONT YARD. A yard extending across the front of a lot between
the side lot lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the
right-of-way line (or similar of that of a private street) and wall of the main
building or any projections thereof.
         (b)   REAR YARD. A yard extending across the rear of a lot and being
the required minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the rear
of the main building.
         (c)   SIDE YARD. A yard between the main building and the side line of
the lot and being the minimum horizontal distance between a side lot line and
the side of the main building.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.003 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   An official zoning map of the city shall be kept in the office of the
Planning Director, and in such other offices as may be deemed appropriate, such
as the City Council meeting chambers and the like. It shall be the duty of the
Planning Director to keep the official map updated by coordinating with the
city’s technical staff to promptly enter any changes in zoning districts on the
zoning map, which the City Council may, from time to time, authorize. The City
Secretary, upon the adoption of this chapter and after the series of public
hearings to establish zonings within the city, shall affix a certificate
identifying the map in his or her office as the official zoning map of the
city.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.004 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General. The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and
enforced by the City Manager, the Planning Director or the City Manager’s duly
authorized representative of the city.
   (B)   Right to enter. The City Manager, Planning Director or an authorized
city official shall have the right to enter upon any premises at any reasonable
time for the purpose of making inspection of buildings or premises necessary to
carry out the diligent enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Stop work orders. Whenever any building work is being done contrary to
the provisions of this chapter, the city’s authorized staff may impose a stop
work order by providing such in writing served on the owner or contractor doing
the work or causing such work to be done, and any such person shall forthwith
stop such work until authorized to legally proceed.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.005 EFFECT UPON EXISTING PERMITS, AGREEMENTS, RIGHTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Existing permits and private agreements. This chapter is not intended
to abrogate or annul any permits issued before the effective date of this
chapter or any easement, covenant or any other private agreement.
   (B)   Preserving rights in pending litigation and violations under existing
ordinances. By the passage of this chapter, no presently illegal use shall be
deemed to have been legalized unless such use falls specifically within a use
district where the actual use is a conforming use. Otherwise, such uses shall
remain non-conforming uses where recognized, or an illegal use, as the case may
be. It is further the intent and declared purpose of this chapter that no
offense committed, and no liability, penalty or forfeiture, either civil or
criminal, shall be discharged or affected by the adoption of this chapter, but
prosecution and suits for such offenses, liabilities, penalties or forfeitures
may be instituted, or causes presently pending be proceeded with in all
respects as circumstances existed prior to this chapter’s adoption.
   (C)   Completion of existing buildings.
      (1)   Nothing in these regulations or in any amendments hereto which
change district boundaries shall require any charge in the plans, construction
or designated use of a building which shall be completed in its entirety within
one year from the date of passage of this chapter or any amendments to this
chapter and was authorized by building permit before the passage of this
chapter; provided, construction shall have been started within 90 calendar days
of the effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   BUILDING CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined as the placing of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.006 BUSINESS PERMIT.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall be administered by the Planning
Director, under the direction of the City Manager, in accordance to ordinances
that may have been previously adopted, subsequently adopted and/or policies
governing same.
   (B)   No person shall construct any building or make any use of any existing
building or premises as a place of business or for the rendering of any
personal or non-personal service without first obtaining a business permit from
the city to do so. The business permit shall contain the name of the permittee,
property description and the use and name of the business/service. The business
permit shall not be transferable meaning that any sale of majority ownership
must then require the new owner to secure their own business permit to thus
assure compliance to any proposed changes to said business/service. The fee for
a business permit application shall be determined by the City Council and shall
be subject to intermittent modification.
   (C)   All applications for business permits shall be accompanied by legible
site plans and legible floor plans, if deemed necessary, and with sufficient
detail to have city staff assess compliance to prevailing ordinances and
related policies.
   (D)   If the proposed use does not comply with the property’s zoning
district and/or if the plans submitted do not conform to the city’s ordinances
and policies, the city shall deny said business permit application and notify
the applicant or his or her agent of the reason(s) why so that needed
adjustments can then be considered. If no adjustment is made, but the business
permit applicant desires to appeal the denial, he or she may do so by filing
his or her appeal in writing to the City Council for final disposition.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.007 SEVERABILITY.
   By the adoption of this chapter, should there be any word, sentence, phrase
and/or expression that may be deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, or legally deleted from the content of this chapter, it is declared
that the remaining portion or portions of this chapter shall remain fully
enabled, active and in full force.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.008 CUMULATIVE PROVISIONS.
   Should there be any existing ordinance, regulation, policy and/or guideline
that may be in conflict with the established regulations of this chapter,
whether in whole or in part, the terms of this chapter shall be controlling and
override any such existing conflict.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
§ 156.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS AND ZONING MAP.
   Once the public hearings are completed, either partially or wholly to
determine final zoning districts per property, the city will have been divided
into zoning districts as shown on the official zoning map. The districts and
their boundaries shall be as shown upon the zoning map referred hereto and made
a part of this chapter, said map being designated as the “official zoning map”.
Said map, and all notations, references and other information shown thereon,
shall be a part of this chapter. If, in accordance with the provision of this
chapter, changes are made in district boundaries or other matters portrayed on
the official zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the map as promptly
as possible after the amendment has been approved by the City Council. Records
shall always be held and available for public inspection to reflect the date of
official action of any rezoning to any property, and a description of the
nature of said rezonings. The official zoning map shall be signed by the Mayor
and attested to by the City Secretary. No amendment to this chapter which
involves matters portrayed on the official zoning map shall become effective
until after such rezoning (caption of specific ordinance) have been published
in a newspaper of local circulation and for which the zoning map will be
amended thereto.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.021 BOUNDARIES; OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The location and boundaries of the districts herein established are shown
upon the official zoning map, which is hereby adopted and incorporated into and
made a part of this chapter, and shall be deemed enabled once the public
hearings on rezoning of properties has been completed.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.022 DETERMINATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   In determining the location of zoning district boundaries on the zoning map,
the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where district boundaries are indicates as approximately following lot
lines, alleys, street or highway rights-of-way, or extensions of such lines,
such lines shall be construed to be boundary lines of the district.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the centerlines or street lines of streets, or the centerlines of
rights-of-way, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel
thereto and to such distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If no
distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale
on said zoning map.
   (C)   Where district boundaries are shown on undivided property, the
location shall be determined by the scale shown on the map unless dimensions
are given on the map or in the ordinance governing the zone.
   (D)   Where physical features existing on the ground are at variance with
those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances not covered
within the text, the City Manager or his or her duly appointed representative
shall interpret the district boundaries. Appeals shall be to the Zoning Board
of Adjustments pursuant to prescribed policies and public hearing guidelines.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.023 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the use districts described herein is to group together into
zoning districts those uses that are reasonably compatible with one another
according to their normal land use characteristics:
   (A)   To permit, in connection with these uses, those customary and
necessary accessory activities which are incidental to the principal use;
   (B)   To permit certain other uses which may be established, in public
forums, in some situations and subject to specific conditions unique to the
site so that such conditional or special uses will also be compatible with the
permitted uses allowed in said districts;
   (C)   To promote orderly and timely growth, and to recognize current land
use conditions;
   (D)   To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations for development
to meet the present and future growth needs of the city, with allowance for
diversity of sites;
   (E)   To protect use areas, as far as possible, against heavy and
unnecessary through traffic;
   (F)   To protect use areas against pollution, environmental hazards and
other objectionable influences;
   (G)   To protect use areas against congestion, as far as possible, by
managing the density of population in and around them; by providing for proper
parking spaces; and by providing for open areas for rest and recreation to thus
result in a more desirable living environment;
   (H)   To provide for privacy and access of light and air flow to structures,
as far as possible, through controls over the spacing and height of buildings
and other structures;
   (I)   To promote the most appropriate use of land and direction of building
development which is not in conflict with the forthcoming Comprehensive Plan or
the adopted policies of the city; to promote stability of development; to
protect the character of the zoning districts; to conserve the value of land
and buildings; and to protect the city’s tax base;
   (J)   To promote the most efficient use of city facilities and services;
   (K)   To protect against fire and explosions and other safety hazards;
   (L)   To accommodate use activities and operations whose external physical
effects are restricted to the area of the district, and in no manner affect in
a permanent detrimental way any of the surrounding districts; and
   (M)   To provide for fire protection and access by emergency responding
vehicles and equipment.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.024 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   All property within the city shall be located within one of the
districts described in §§
156.040 through
156.053 of this chapter, and shall meet and conform to all requirements of
those districts, unless otherwise grandfathered.
   (B)   Except where indicated otherwise, the uses permitted in each district
shall be limited to those specifically enumerated.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.025 NEWLY ANNEXED LAND.
   (A)   All territory hereafter annexed into the city shall assume an interim
zoning classification of Agricultural Open-Interim (AO-I), pending
determination of the property’s more permanent zoning classification in
accordance with the provisions of state law and this chapter.
   (B)   The city’s Planning and Zoning Commission shall, as soon as practical
after annexation of any territory to the city and after sufficient study,
institute proceedings on its own motion, to give the newly annexed territory a
permanent zoning by considering, among other criteria, the forthcoming
Comprehensive Plan of the city, and following the same public hearing
procedures for a change of zoning.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.026 ACCESSORY USES AND CONDITIONS.
   A use may be permitted as an accessory use to any permitted and established
principal use in any district; provided that, such accessory use:
   (A)   Is customarily incident to and maintained and operated as a part of
the principal use, as determined by the Planning Director and, if need be,
after consultation with the City Manager;
   (B)   Is not hazardous to and does not impair the use or enjoyment of
adjoining or nearby properties in greater degree than the principal use with
which it is associated, as determined by the Planning Director and, if need be,
after consultation with the City Manager;
   (C)   Does not add to levels of noise, odor, vibration, excessive lighting
or degrees of traffic congestion, dust or pollutants, in a greater amount than
that customarily generated by the principal use, as determined by the Planning
Director and, if need be, after consultation with the City Manager; and
   (D)   Is not located within the minimum building setback restrictions of the
land use zoning district.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
USE DISTRICTS AND CONDITIONAL USES
§ 156.040 LAND USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The city hereby declares that all properties within its corporate
limits shall be assigned to one of the land use zoning districts shown below.
If there is ever a condition that a property has multi-zoning categories, then
whenever a zoned component is desired to be used and/or developed, that the
subject property (properties) shall be legally subdivided first.
   (B)   The land use zoning districts are as follows:
AO-I Agricultural Open-Interim
AO-P Permanent Open Space District
C-1  Office Building
C-2  Neighborhood Commercial
C-3  General Business
C-4  Heavy Commercial
I-1  Industrial District
P    Public Use District
R-1  Single-Family Residential
R-1T Townhouse Residential
R-2  Duplex-Fourplex Residential
R-3  Multi-Family Residential
R-4  Mobile Home, Recreational Vehicle and Modular Home District
 
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.041 AO-I AGRICULTURAL OPEN-INTERIM.
   (A)   Purpose. The Agricultural Open-Interim District is designed to promote
orderly, timely, economical growth and to recognize current land use conditions
such as it being agriculturally used or being undeveloped. It is the intent of
this district that agricultural land be held in that use for as long as is
practical and reasonable prior to any desire for development. AO-I is suitable
for areas where development is premature because of the lack of utilities,
capacity or service.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Farming, ranching, related activities and accessory uses including
one single-family dwelling, plus any housing for employees working on the
premises;
      (2)   Barns or other structures for the housing of permitted livestock or
other animals typically found in an agricultural setting; and
      (3)   Signs permitted in this land use classification. (See
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.)
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   A mobile home on an unsubdivided tract of five acres (net) or more;
      (2)   Home occupations where the owner/tenant must reside therein; (Home
occupations must meet the regulations governing such. See §
156.072(A) of this chapter.)
      (3)   Broadcast towers for radio, television, microwave and/or other
telecommunications;
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreations;
      (5)   Extraction activities that must include, but not be limited to,
providing details on its proposed extraction activities, its previous
extraction locations with contact data to those entities, its extraction dates
and times and the like;
      (6)   Landing strips that may be permitted pending undeveloped properties
in its flight patterns (take-off and landing); however, such landing strips may
induce the public hearing process to consider its transitioned termination
based on changes to actual development in its flight pattern path;
      (7)   Private facilities for the raising of animals including, but not
limited to, dog kennels; such facilities must comply with any separation
requirements found in any prevailing or forthcoming animal control regulations
established by the local and/or state legislation;
      (8)   Amusement parks, circus or carnival grounds or (revival) tents or
other temporary structures used for temporary purposes;
      (9)   Facilities for railroads or those utilities holding a franchise
under the city;
      (10)   Plant and landscape nurseries; such may have a temporary period of
unpaved off-street parking, but such period should not be longer than one year;
after this one-year tenure, off-street parking shall be paved;
      (11)   Temporary institutional uses;
      (12)   Cemeteries; such land uses must comply with the prevailing state
codes on such land uses. As of this writing, refer to the state’s Banking Code;
      (13)   Fruit and/or vegetable sales which the majority are grown on the
premises. A business permit must be acquired by the proprietor in accordance to
this chapter; and
      (14)   Other uses which, as determined by the Planning Director and, if
need be, after consultation with the City Manager, are not contrary to the
purposes established for the AO-I District, which may include a veterinary
service.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Unless otherwise grandfathered, any building erected or land used
for other than one or more of the preceding specified uses as approved thereby.
      (2)   Any new use of property that does not meet the required minimum lot
size, including lot area requirements, or exceeds the maximum height
requirements.
   (E)   Area requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area for inner or corner lot: 43,560 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum inner or corner lot frontage to a public or private street:
100 feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot depth: 200 feet;
      (4)   Minimum front yard building setback to primary building: 40 feet;
      (5)   Minimum rear yard building setback: ten feet or off of wider
easement;
      (6)   Minimum width of side yard building setback:
         (a)   Inner lot: six feet; and
         (b)   Corner lot: ten feet.
      (7)   Minimum distance from the public right-of-way (property line) to
the entrance of a garage or enclosed carport shall be 18 feet;
      (8)   Maximum height of structures: 35 feet; however, where a structure
may exceed the 35-foot maximum, said structure shall be set back one additional
foot for each foot above 35 feet;
      (9)   Minimum number of off-street parking spaces shall be two for the
single-family dwelling; for all other uses, refer to any prevailing off-street
parking regulations; and
      (10)   See §
156.087 of this chapter for any applicable clarification, modification and/or
exception.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.042 AGRICULTURAL OPEN PERMANENT SPACE.
   (A)   Purpose. The Permanent Open Space District is to be used for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To protect those areas that are unsuitable for development because
of physical terrain issues or potential health or safety hazards such as being
susceptible to prompt flooding conditions;
      (2)   To provide a permanent greenbelt or open space buffer around uses
that might otherwise be objectionable or pose environmental or health hazards;
and
      (3)   To protect and preserve natural habitats of wildlife and/or plant
life that are deemed critical by the city.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Farming, ranching, related activities and accessory uses including
the owner’s single-family dwelling, plus any housing for employees working on
the premises; single-family dwellings may be required to provide a flood
elevation certificate as a condition of permit approval; and
      (2)   Signs permitted in this land use classification. See
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   A mobile home on an un-subdivided tract of five acres or more. An
elevation certificate may be imposed as a part of the approval process;
      (2)   Home occupations; (See §
156.072(A) of this chapter on related home occupation regulations.)
      (3)   Broadcast towers for radio, television, microwave and/or other
telecommunication services;
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreations;
      (5)   Extraction activities that must include, but not be limited to,
providing details on its proposed extraction activities, its previous
extraction locations with contact data to those entities, its extraction dates
and times and the like;
      (6)   Landing strips that may be permitted pending un-developed
properties in its flight patterns (take-off and landing); however, such landing
strips may induce the public hearing process to consider its transitioned
termination based on changes to actual development in its flight pattern path;
      (7)   Private facilities for the raising of animals including, but not
limited to, dog kennels; such facilities must comply with any separation
requirements found in any prevailing or forthcoming animal control regulations
established by the local and/or state legislation;
      (8)   Amusement parks, circus or carnival grounds or (revival) tents or
other temporary structures used for temporary purposes;
      (9)   Facilities for railroads or those utilities holding a franchise
under the city;
      (10)   Plant and landscape nurseries; such may have a temporary period of
un-paved off-street parking, but such period should not be longer than one
year; after this one-year tenure, off-street parking shall be paved;
      (11)   Temporary institutional uses;
      (12)   Fruit, vegetable and the like sales which the majority are
predominantly grown on the premises. A business permit is required prior to
activation of such sales; and
      (13)   Other uses which, as determined by the city, are not contrary to
the purposes established for this district including a veterinary service.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Unless otherwise grandfathered, any building erected or land used
for other than one or more of the preceding specified uses; and
      (2)   Any new use of property that does not conform with the required
area requirements for this use district; or exceeds the maximum height
requirement.
   (E)   Area requirements.
      (1)   Minimum inner or corner lot area: 43,560 square feet (net);
      (2)   Minimum inner or corner lot frontage on a public or private street:
100 feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot depth: 200 feet;
      (4)   Minimum front building setback to primary home: 40 feet;
      (5)   Minimum rear building setback: ten feet or off from wider easement;
      (6)   Minimum width of side yard building setback:
         (a)   Inner lot: six feet or off from wider easement; and
         (b)   Corner lot: ten feet or off from wider easement.
      (7)   Minimum distance from the public right-of-way (property line) to
the entrance to a garage or enclosed carport: 18 feet;
      (8)   Maximum height of structure: 35 feet; however, where a structure
exceeds the 35-foot height maximum, it shall be set back one additional foot
for each foot over 35 feet; and
      (9)   Minimum number of paved off-street parking spaces:
         (a)   One single-family dwelling: two; and
         (b)   All other uses, please refer to §§
156.100 through
156.109 of this chapter.
      (10)   See §
156.087 of this chapter for any further clarification, modification and/or
exception.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.043 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The Single-Family Residential Zoning District is established
for the following purposes:
      (1)   To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations for
residential development, and to meet the present and future housing needs of
the city, with allowance for a diversity of sites;
      (2)   To protect residential areas from pollution, environmental hazards
and other objectionable influences;
      (3)   To protect residential areas, as much as possible, from heavy and
through non-residential traffic;
      (4)   To protect residential areas from congestion by managing the
density of population in and around them, by providing for off-street parking
spaces and by providing open areas for nearby recreation to thus provide a more
desirable living environment;
      (5)   To provide for privacy and access for light and flowing air by
managing a structure’s building setbacks from each other as well as regulating
a building’s height; and
      (6)   To promote the most desirable use of land and direction of building
development, not in conflict with the city’s forthcoming Comprehensive Plan; to
promote the stability of residential development; to protect the character of
the R-1 District; to conserve the value of land and buildings; and to protect
or enhance the city’s tax base.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   One single-family dwelling per lot and typical accessory uses;
      (2)   Signs in accordance to the prevailing sign regulations;
      (3)   One portable building not more than 3% of the lot’s net square
footage used for either storage, hobby or other similar accessory use; and
      (4)   Temporary sales office for the sale of lots; if a modular
structure, it shall have skirting and paved parking.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Home occupations; (See §
156.072(A) of this code of ordinances on related home occupation regulations.)
      (2)   Guest houses or legitimate separate servant quarters; such uses
shall not have separate water meters, but shall be linked to the main
residential dwelling;
      (3)   A mobile home on an unsubdivided tract of five acres or more;
      (4)   Portable buildings larger than 3% of the lot’s net square footage.
No second portable building shall be permitted without first obtaining an
approved conditional use permit;
      (5)   Facilities for railroads or those utilities holding a franchise
under the city; and
      (6)   Bed and breakfast facility.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Any new building erected or land used for other than one or more of
the preceding specified uses; and
      (2)   Unless otherwise grandfathered, any use of property that does not
conform with the minimum area requirements; or exceeds the maximum height or
building density per gross acre.
   (E)   Area requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area for lots with a functioning sanitary sewer system:
internal lot: 6,000 square feet; corner lot: 7,000 square feet; however, if
there is no sanitary sewer system, lot sizing shall comply with the county’s
minimum lot size; also, in the existing Municipal Utility District where lots
have been platted below this threshold, lots may be reduced to assimilate with
what has been used before;
      (2)   Maximum number of single-family dwellings per lot: one;
      (3)   Minimum lot frontage on a public or private street:
         (a)   Internal lot: 60 feet; and
         (b)   Corner lot: 65 feet.
      (4)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet;
      (5)   Minimum front yard building setback: 20 feet;
      (6)   Minimum rear yard building setback: ten feet or off any wider
easement;
      (7)   Minimum side yard building setback:
         (a)   Inner lot: six feet or off any wider easement; and
         (b)   Corner lot: ten feet.
      (8)   Minimum distance from the public right-of-way (property line) to
the entrance to a garage or enclosed carport shall not be less than 18 feet;
      (9)   Maximum height of structures: 35 feet. Where a structure exceeds 25
feet in height, it shall set back one additional foot for each foot above 25
feet, not to exceed the 35-foot maximum;
      (10)   Minimum number of paved off-street parking spaces shall be two;
and
      (11)   See §
156.087 of this chapter for any further clarification, modification and/or
exception.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.044 R-1T TOWNHOUSE RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purposes. The Townhouse Residential District is established for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To provide adequate space and site diversification for medium
density residential development where adequate streets and other community
facilities are available for present and future needs;
      (2)   To protect residential areas against pollution, environmental
hazards and other objectionable influences;
      (3)   To protect residential areas against heavy traffic;
      (4)   To manage the density of population and protect against congestion
by providing for off-street parking spaces and by requiring the provision of
open areas for residential recreation for a more desirable living environment;
      (5)   To provide for privacy and access of light and flowing air, as far
as possible, through controls over the spacing and height of buildings from
each other and other structures; and
      (6)   To promote the most desirable use of land and direction of building
development not in conflict with the forthcoming city’s Comprehensive Plan; to
promote the stability of residential development; to protect the character of
the district; to conserve the value of land and buildings; and to protect the
city’s tax base.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any use permitted in R-1 Districts. Structures must meet the
requirements of the R-1 District inclusive of area requirements, setbacks,
parking and the like;
      (2)   One townhouse per lot;
      (3)   One portable building per lot to be not more than 140 square feet
used for either storage, hobby or other typical accessory use;
      (4)   An accessory use customarily related to a principal use authorized
in this district; and
      (5)   Signs permitted under this district in accordance to prevailing
sign regulations.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Home occupations; (They must comply with home occupation
regulations in §
156.072(A) of this code of ordinances.)
      (2)   Guest houses or separate servant’s quarters where such shall not
have separate utility meters, but shall be linked to the primary residential
dwelling;
      (3)   A mobile home on an unsubdivided tract of five acres or more;
      (4)   Facilities for railroads or those utilities holding a franchise
under the city;
      (5)   Portable buildings larger than 140 square feet. No second portable
building shall be permitted without first obtaining a conditional use permit;
and
      (6)   Parking facilities for non-residential uses.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Any new building erected or land used for other than one or more of
the preceding specified uses; and
      (2)   Unless otherwise grandfathered, any use of property that does not
meet the required minimum area requirements; or exceeds the maximum height or
density per gross acre as required.
   (E)   Area requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Internal lot: 2,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Corner lot: 3,000 square feet.
      (2)   Maximum number of single-family dwelling units per lot: one;
      (3)   (a)   Maximum lot frontage to a public or private street:
            1.   Inner lot: 20 feet; and
            2.   Corner lot: 30 feet.
         (b)   It is noted that typical townhouse developments must have a
paved public (or private if so approved) alley for rear access and utility
service delivery.
      (4)   Minimum lot depth: 60 feet;
      (5)   Minimum front yard building setback: ten feet;
      (6)   Minimum rear yard setback: zero feet or off any rear utility
easement line. In no instance shall a structure or any part thereof encroach
over the platted lot line;
      (7)   (a)   Minimum side yard setback:
            1.   Inner lot: six feet; and
            2.   Corner lot: ten feet.
         (b)   Townhouses separated by firewalls meeting the requirements of
the prevailing Building Code may build to the property line where such
structures abut. In no instance shall a structure of any part thereof encroach
over the platted lot line.
      (8)   Minimum distance from the public right-of-way (property line) to
the entrance to a garage or enclosed carport shall be not less than 18 feet;
      (9)   Maximum height of structures: 35 feet. Where a structure exceeds 25
feet in height, it shall be set back one additional foot for each foot above 25
feet, not to exceed the 35-foot maximum;
      (10)   Minimum number of off-street parking spaces: two; and
      (11)   See §
156.087 of this chapter for further clarification, modification and/or
exception.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.045 R-2 DUPLEX-FOURPLEX RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purposes. The Duplex-Fourplex Residential District is established for
the following purposes:
      (1)   To provide adequate space and site diversification for medium-
density residential development where adequate streets and other community
facilities are available for present and future needs;
      (2)   To protect residential areas against pollution, environmental
hazards and other objectionable influences;
      (3)   To protect residential areas against heavy through traffic;
      (4)   To manage the density of population and protect against congestion
by providing for off- street parking spaces and by requiring the provision of
open recreational spaces, thus providing for a more desirable living
environment;
      (5)   To provide for privacy and access of light and flowing through air
through controls over the spacing and height of buildings and other structures;
and
      (6)   To promote the most desirable use of land and direction of building
development not in conflict with the city’s forthcoming Comprehensive Plan; to
promote the stability of residential development; to protect the character of
the district; to conserve the value of land and buildings; and to protect the
city’s tax base.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   One single-family dwelling; structures must meet the area
requirements of the R-1 District;
      (2)   One duplex, one triplex or one fourplex per lot where each
respective use complies with the minimum area requirements set forth in this
chapter;
      (3)   Signs permitted under the city’s prevailing sign regulations;
      (4)   One portable building not more than 3% of the lot’s net square
footage used for either storage, hobby or some other typical accessory use; and
      (5)   An accessory use customarily related to a principal use authorized
in this district, except guest houses. An accessory use may be permitted in a
vacant townhouse lot if the owner’s residence adjoins said vacant lot.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   A mobile home on an unsubdivided tract of five acres or more;
      (2)   Home occupations; (Such home occupations must meet the home
occupation regulations in §
156.072(A) of this chapter; see emphasis on proposed home occupations in a
multi-family setting.)
      (3)   Guest houses, garage apartments or separate servant quarters where
such shall not have separate utility meters, but shall be linked to the meters
of the primary residential dwelling;
      (4)   Facilities for railroads or those utilities holding a franchise
under the city;
      (5)   Portable buildings larger than 3% of the lot’s net square footage.
No second portable building shall be permitted without first obtaining a
conditional use permit;
      (6)   Parking for non-residential purposes; such parking may require
fence buffering from any adjoining residential use and may require limited
security lighting; and
      (7)   Bed and breakfast facilities.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Unless otherwise grandfathered, any new building erected or land
used for other than one or more of the preceding specified uses; and
      (2)   Any use of property that does not meet the R-2 area requirements;
or exceeds the maximum height or density per gross acre as required.
   (E)   Area requirements.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings must meet the area requirements of the R-
1 District;
      (2)   Townhouses shall meet the area requirements of the R-1T District;
      (3)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Internal lot:
            1.   Single-family and duplex use: 6,000 square feet;
            2.   Triplex use: 6,700 square feet; and
            3.   Fourplex use: 7,800 square feet.
         (b)   Corner lot:
            1.   Single-family and duplex use: 6,700 square feet;
            2.   Triplex use: 7,500 square feet; and
            3.   Fourplex use: 8,200 square feet.
      (4)   Maximum number of residential structures per lot: one;
      (5)   Minimum lot frontage on a public or private street:
         (a)   Internal lot: 50 feet; and
         (b)   Corner lot: 60 feet.
      (6)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet;
      (7)   Minimum front yard building setback: 20 feet;
      (8)   Minimum rear yard building setback: ten feet or wider for any
easement use;
      (9)   Minimum side yard building setback:
         (a)   Internal lot: six feet or wider for easement; and
         (b)   Corner lot: ten feet.
      (10)   Minimum distance from the public right-of-way (property line) to
the entrance to a garage or enclosed carport shall not be less than 18 feet;
      (11)   Minimum percentage of permanent open landscaping per lot: 10%;
      (12)   Maximum height of structures: 35 feet. Where a structure exceeds
25 ft in height, it shall be set back one additional foot for each foot above
25 feet, not to exceed the 35-foot maximum;
      (13)   Minimum number of un-impeded paved off-street parking spaces:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling: two;
         (b)   Duplex use: four;
         (c)   Triplex use: six; and
         (d)   Fourplex use: eight.
      (14)   See §
156.087 of this chapter for further clarification, modification and/or
exception.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.046 R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purposes. The Multi-Family Residential District is established for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To provide adequate space and site diversification for higher-
density residential development where adequate streets and other community
facilities are available for present and future needs;
      (2)   To protect residential areas against pollution, environmental
hazards and other objectionable influences;
      (3)   To protect residential areas against heavy traffic;
      (4)   To manage the density of population and protect against congestion
by providing for off-street parking spaces and by requiring the provision of
open space in residential areas in order to open areas for rest and recreation,
thus providing a more desirable living environment;
      (5)   To provide for privacy and access of light and flowing air, as far
as possible, through controls over the spacing and height of buildings and
other structures; and
      (6)   To promote the most desirable use of land and direction of building
development not in conflict with the forthcoming comprehensive plan of the
city; to promote stability of residential development; to protect the character
of the district; to conserve the value of land and buildings; and to protect
the city’s tax base.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   One single-family dwelling per lot; structures must meet the
requirements of the R-1 District;
      (2)   One duplex-fourplex per lot where such structures must comply with
the R-2 area requirements for the structural usage;
      (3)   Apartments;
      (4)   Condominiums;
      (5)   One townhouse per lot; structures must meet the requirements of the
R-1T District inclusive of the paved alley requirement;
      (6)   Parking lots for multi-family residential use;
      (7)   Common recreational areas including but not limited to gazebos,
swimming pools, covered picnic areas and the like;
      (8)   Signs permitted under this district pursuant to the prevailing sign
codes;
      (9)   An accessory use customarily related to a principal use authorized
in this district, except guesthouses; and
      (10)   Temporary sales office for the sale of lots where paved parking
shall also be required as part of the city’s flexibility to allow such non-
residential use.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Home occupations where such must comply with the home occupation
regulations in §
156.072(A) of this chapter; see emphasis on proposed home occupations in a
multi-family setting;
      (2)   Guesthouses, but there shall be no separate utility metering thus
it shall be linked to the primary residential dwelling;
      (3)   A mobile home on an unsubdivided tract of five acres or more;
      (4)   Boardinghouses;
      (5)   Facilities for railroads or those utilities holding a franchise
under the city;
      (6)   Parking facilities for non-residential uses; and
      (7)   Bed and breakfast facility.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Unless otherwise grandfathered, any building or land used for other
than one or more of the preceding specified uses;
      (2)   On and off-premises signs, portable signs, animated or illuminated
signs; and
      (3)   Any use of property that does not meet the required minimum R-
3 area requirements; or exceeds the maximum height or density per gross acre as
required.
   (E)   Area requirements.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling units shall meet the requirements of the R-
1 District. Only one single-family residential structure will be allowed per
lot;
      (2)   Townhouses shall meet the requirements of the R-1T District. Only
one townhouse will be allowed per lot;
      (3)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Internal lot: 7,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Corner lot: 8,000 square feet.
      (4)   (a)   Maximum number of dwelling units per lot:
            1.   Zero-bedroom or efficiency dwelling units: 1,000 square of lot
area per unit;
            2.   One bedroom dwelling units: 1,250 square feet of lot area per
unit;
            3.   Two-bedroom dwelling units: 1,500 square feet of lot area per
unit; and
            4.   Three+ bedroom dwelling units: 1,750 square feet of lot area
per unit.
         (b)   To determine the permitted number of dwelling units in the R-
3 District, divide the area of the parcel in question by the minimum lot area
per dwelling unit. The resulting quotient is the maximum number of dwelling
units permitted.
      (5)   Maximum density per acre:
         (a)   Zero-bedroom or efficiency dwelling units: 43 dwelling units per
net acre;
         (b)   One-bedroom dwelling units: 34 dwelling units per net acre;
         (c)   Two-bedroom dwelling units: 29 dwelling units per net acre; and
         (d)   Three+ dwelling units: 24 dwelling units per net acre.
      (6)   Minimum lot frontage on a public or private street:
         (a)   Internal lot: 70 feet; and
         (b)   Corner lot: 80 feet.
      (7)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet;
      (8)   Minimum front yard building setback: 30 feet;
      (9)   Minimum rear yard building setback: 15 feet or off a wider
easement; for unenclosed carport canopies, the support column may have a five-
foot rear setback if there is no conflicting easement;
      (10)   Minimum side yard building setback:
         (a)   Internal lot: six feet; and
         (b)   Corner lot: 15 feet.
      (11)   Minimum distance from the public right-of-way (property line) to
the entrance to a garage or enclosed carport;
      (12)   Maximum building coverage as a percentage of lot area: 50%;
      (13)   Minimum amount of permanent landscaped open space 10%;
      (14)   Maximum height of structures: 25 feet; where a structure exceeds
the 25-foot height maximum, it shall be set back one additional foot for every
two feet above 25 feet;
      (15)   Minimum number of paved, un-impeded parking and striped off-street
parking spaces required for each apartment shall be two. All other uses shall
comply with §§
156.100 through
156.109 of this chapter; and
      (16)   See §
156.087 of this chapter for further clarification, modification and/or
exception.
   (F)   Required conditions.
      (1)   Any owner, builder or developer of a multi-family, condominium or
townhouse dwelling complex of five units or more on a single lot or parcel, of
five or more single-family townhouses attached units, shall submit to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for a review and approval of the detailed site
plan inclusive of the required filing fee. The contents of the site plan shall
include, but not be limited to, the location of all structures and their
distance to property lines, landscaping reflecting the percentage and type of
shade trees (note: palm trees are not shade trees), ingress-egress, height of
structures, common areas (if any) and width and location of all sidewalks, plus
any buffering (type/material/height) to adjoining properties or for the solid
waste areas.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall approve the site plan,
with conditions if necessary, if it complies with all the minimum standards
established in this chapter and other applicable ordinances, and if the
Commission finds that the proposed development will not be detrimental to the
health, safety or welfare of the surrounding neighborhood or its occupants, or
be substantially or permanently injurious to neighboring property. If the site
plan does not meet the forthcoming Comprehensive Plan or not be compliant to
all R-3 standards, then it shall be denied until the applicant modifies it and
re-files it for reconsideration.
      (3)   The site plan, if complete in details, shall be reviewed by the
Planning Director and other city officials for compliance, and shall be
scheduled for consideration by the Planning and Zoning Commission as soon as
practical based on the Commission’s regular meeting policies.
      (4)   Any appeals of the decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall be in accordance to §
156.155 of this chapter. Appeals shall not be considered unless the incidental
filing fee shall be paid in full.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.047 R-4 MOBILE HOME DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purposes. The Mobile Home District is established for the following
purposes:
      (1)   To provide adequate space and site diversification for moderate-
density residential development where adequate streets and other community
facilities are available for present and future needs;
      (2)   To protect residential areas against pollution, environmental
hazards and other objectionable influences;
      (3)   To provide adequate provisions for vehicular and pedestrian
circulation;
      (4)   To promote housing densities appropriate to and compatible with
existing and proposed public support facilities; and
      (5)   To promote the most desirable use of land and direction of building
development; to promote stability of development; to protect the character of
the district; to conserve the value of land; and to protect the city’s tax
base.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   One mobile home per lot or one recreational vehicle per lot or one
park model per lot used as the primary residential unit. If a recreational
vehicle or park model is desired per lot, the lot shall meet the minimum area
requirements for mobile home use inclusive of a mobile home’s building
setbacks;
      (2)   Accessory buildings;
      (3)   Recreational and commercial facilities designed for semi-exclusive
use of the subdivision’s occupants;
      (4)   One portable building per lot to not be over 140 square feet used
for either storage, hobby or other similar use;
      (5)   Temporary sales office for the sale of lots; off-street parking
shall be paved and appear residential; and
      (6)   Signs in accordance to
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Home occupations; such home occupations shall meet the typical
regulations found in §
156.072(A) of this chapter;
      (2)   Facilities for railroads or those utilities holding a franchise
under the city; and
      (3)   Portable buildings larger than 140 square feet.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Unless otherwise grandfathered, any building erected or land used
for other than one or more of the preceding specified uses;
      (2)   No more than one mobile home, recreational vehicle or park model
shall occupy any approved lot as an active residential unit;
      (3)   Off-premises signs; and
      (4)   Any use of property that does not meet the required minimum area
requirements of this district or exceeds the maximum height or density per
gross acre as required.
   (E)   Area requirements.
      (1)   Minimum size of tract for development shall be five acres; if less
than five acres, such appeal shall first be presented for consideration to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for an advisory recommendation to the City
Council for final consideration;
      (2)   Minimum lot area for mobile homes, recreational vehicles, park
models or other modular housing structures:
         (a)   Inner lot: 5,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Corner lot: 6,000 square feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot frontage to a public or private street:
         (a)   Inner lot: 50 feet; and
         (b)   Corner lot: 60 feet.
      (4)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet;
      (5)   Minimum depth of front setback: 15 feet (to not include the steel
hitching structure typically attached to mobile homes);
      (6)   Minimum depth of rear setback: ten feet;
      (7)   Minimum width of side setbacks:
         (a)   Inner lot: six feet; and
         (b)   Corner lot: ten feet.
      (8)   Minimum distance from the public right-of-way or property line to
the entrance to a garage or enclosed carport is 18 feet;
      (9)   Maximum height of structures: 25 feet;
      (10)   Minimum number of paved off-street parking spaces shall be two.
For other uses associated with a common recreational hall, refer to the
prevailing off-street parking regulations;
      (11)   The maximum square footage of site-built additions to the primary
residential unit shall not exceed 600 square feet; and
      (12)   See §
156.087 of this chapter for further clarification, modification and/or
exception.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.048 C-1 OFFICE BUILDING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purposes. The Office Building District is established for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To accommodate office uses, office sales uses and certain personal
services;
      (2)   To create a district that will typically not create excessive
amounts of traffic;
      (3)   To create a district with commercial uses of a nature that will not
have a blighting effect on any adjacent residential areas;
      (4)   To protect against fire, pollution and other environmental hazards;
      (5)   To protect, as far as possible, against congestion;
      (6)   To promote the most desirable use of land and direction of building
development in accordance with the city’s forthcoming Comprehensive Plan; and
      (7)   To promote stability of office building developments; to protect
the character of the district and adjacent districts; to conserve the value of
land and buildings; and to protect the city’s tax base.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Office buildings for professional occupations including executive,
administrative, legal, accounting, clerical, drafting, engineering, legal,
photography and/or real estate or other similar uses;
      (2)   Medical office, clinics or other similar uses (not “hospitals”)
where all activities are conducted within a totally enclosed building;
      (3)   Accessory drive-in service windows where the city may assess
egress-ingress and impose safety features such as speed bumps to maximize
pedestrian-driver safety; and
      (4)   On-premises signs pursuant to prevailing sign regulations.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Banks, credit unions and other service loan businesses;
      (2)   Telephone, radio, television and/or other telecommunication towers;
      (3)   Hair salon services;
      (4)   Changeable copy signs pursuant to
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances;
      (5)   Antique shop;
      (6)   Pharmacy where its primary use is pharmaceutical services and not
retail sales of non- medical items; and
      (7)   Day-care services (minor or adult services).
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Unless otherwise grandfathered, any building erected or land used
other than one or more of the preceding specified uses;
      (2)   Off-premises signs; and
      (3)   Any use of property that does not meet the required minimum area
requirements or exceeds the maximum height or density per gross acre.
   (E)   Area requirements. Area requirements for this district shall comply
with §
156.086 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.049 C-2 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purposes. The Neighborhood Commercial District is established for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To provide sufficient space and paved off-street parking in
appropriate locations in proximity to residential areas; for commercial
development catering to the convenience shopping and service needs of said
residential areas;
      (2)   To provide appropriate space for unimpeded paved off-street parking
to control congestion, and to encourage commercial development to concentrate
to the mutual advantage of both consumers and merchants;
      (3)   To protect local commercial development against fire, pollution
and/or other environmental hazards; and
      (4)   To promote stability of office building developments; to protect
the character of the district and adjacent districts; to conserve the value of
land and buildings; and to protect the city’s tax base.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Generally recognized retail businesses which supply commodities on
the premises for persons residing in nearby residential areas, such as
groceries, meats, dairy products, cooked goods (tacos) or other similar goods/
uses;
      (2)   Personal service establishments which perform services on the
premises such as repair shops (watches, televisions, shoes and the like),
tailor shops, beauty shops or barber shops, photographic studios and self-
service laundries; but not including automotive repair services;
      (3)   Dry cleaning business;
      (4)   Personal services including outpatient medical clinics, offices of
doctors, dentists, osteopaths and similar professions;
      (5)   An accessory use customarily related to a principal use authorized
in this district;
      (6)   On-premises signs pursuant to
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances; and
      (7)   Day care services (minors or adults).
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Gasoline service stations or retail outlets where gasoline products
are sold; (See division (D) below.)
      (2)   Drive-through service window businesses;
      (3)   Business establishments which perform services on the premises such
as banks, loan companies, insurance and/or real estate offices. A pawn service
is not permitted in this district;
      (4)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to the
aforementioned uses;
      (5)   Portable buildings;
      (6)   Household storage goods in rented/leased individual storage units;
      (7)   Telephone, radio, television and/or other telecommunication towers;
      (8)   Changeable copy signs pursuant to
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances; and
      (9)   Limousine rental services.
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   All businesses shall be conducted within a completely enclosed
building excluding drive-in service windows or gasoline service islands.
      (2)   Gasoline services are limited in their activity to the sale of
gasoline, oil and minor accessories only, and incidental services. Repair work,
steam cleaning or undercoating, vehicle body repair, painting, tire recapping,
engine rebuilding, auto dismantling, upholstery, auto glasswork and such other
services are not permitted in this district.
      (3)   The curb cut, ingress or egress, shall be assessed for traffic
safety during the conditional use process or building permit process, but shall
never be less than 25 feet from any street intersection (measured from right-
of-way boundaries).
      (4)   A minimum front building setback of 60 feet shall be maintained for
any gas service sale outlet unless otherwise approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and City Council. Gas pumps and their support (unenclosed)
canopy roof covers may be permitted within the front setback.
      (5)   Unless otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
the City Council, the minimum lot size for businesses where gasoline sales are
available shall be 15,000 square feet. However, if there is a business that
exclusively offers gasoline sales (with minor motor vehicle products such as
oil and the like), then lots may be permitted to be less than the 15,000 square
foot threshold subject to the conditional use permit process.
   (E)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Unless otherwise grandfathered, any building erected or land used
for other than one or more of the preceding specified uses;
      (2)   Off-premises signs; and
      (3)   Any use of property that does not meet the minimum required area
requirements or exceeds the maximum height requirement or density per gross
acre.
   (F)   Area requirements. Area requirements for this district shall meet the
area requirements of §
156.086 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.050 C-3 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purposes. The General Business District is established for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To provide sufficient space, in appropriate locations with a
variety of site choices, for development requiring a higher density of
commercial establishments, general characterized by an integrated or planned
cluster of establishments served by a common parking area and/or generating
large volumes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (2)   To protect against fire, pollution and other environmental hazards;
      (3)   To protect, as far as possible, commercial centers against
congestion;
      (4)   To promote the most desirable use of land and direction of building
development in accord with the city’s forthcoming Comprehensive Plan; and
      (5)   To promote stability of commercial development; to strengthen the
economic base of the city; to protect the character of the district and its
uses; to conserve the value of land and buildings; and to protect the city’s
tax base.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses listed as permitted uses in the C-1 and C-2 Districts
where said uses must meet the minimum requirements of their use district;
      (2)   Any retail business, personal service or similar businesses except
for lumberyards, contractor yards, farm equipment or other heavy equipment
sales or service, and/or warehousing and stockyards. Household goods stored in
individually rented storage units is permitted in this district;
      (3)   Hotel, motel and restaurants;
      (4)   Institutional uses;
      (5)   Printing, publishing and similar uses;
      (6)   Rail and motor vehicle transportation passenger terminals;
      (7)   Telephone, television, radio or similar media stations/studios, but
any incidental tower(s) must first receive conditional use permit approval;
      (8)   Signs in accordance to
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances;
      (9)   Automotive repair and/or paint and body shops; provided that, all
work is conducted wholly within a completely enclosed and well ventilated
building. The portion of land used for open storage of vehicles or automotive
parts shall be totally obscured by a fence buffer that results in total
obscurity; and
      (10)   An accessory use customarily related to a principal use authorized
in this district including temporary tents for sidewalk sales and the like.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Gasoline service stations or retail outlets where gasoline service
products are sold;
      (2)   Drive-through service windows;
      (3)   Restaurants that serve alcoholic beverages for on-premises
consumption. Also, bars, cocktail lounges, taverns, cantinas, saloons, dance
halls, nightclubs or other similar operations;
      (4)   Amusement parks, circus or carnival grounds, commercial amusements
or other similar uses;
      (5)   Portable buildings;
      (6)   Telephone, radio, television and/or other telecommunication tower;
      (7)   Changeable copy signs in accordance to
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances;
      (8)   Crematorium when in association with a funeral home establishment;
such must meet any prevailing local and/or state building regulations; and
      (9)   The complimentary (not sold) offering of alcoholic beverages for
on-site consumption may be permitted within a city-owned building for a social
and/or cultural event that is associated with a charitable or civic
organization.
   (D)   Required conditions. Gasoline service stations or retail outlets where
gasoline products are sole, drive-in businesses and veterinary hospitals shall
be subject to the same limitations as set forth in the applicable divisions of
§
156.049 of this chapter.
   (E)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Unless otherwise grandfathered, any building erected or land used
for other than one or more of the preceding uses; and
      (2)   Any use of property that does not meet the required minimum area
requirements; or exceeds the maximum height, or density per gross acre.
   (F)   Area requirements. Area requirements for this district shall meet §
156.086 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.051 C-4 HEAVY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purposes. The heavy commercial district is established for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To provide sufficient space for development of commercial
establishments which would involve influences that would be objectionable in
the C-3 District due to noise from heavy service operations, large volume of
truck traffic or some similar objection;
      (2)   To protect against fire and pollution, and other environmental
hazards;
      (3)   To protect, as far as possible, against congestion;
      (4)   To promote the most desirable uses of land and the direction of
building development in accord with the city’s forthcoming Comprehensive Plan;
and
      (5)   To promote stability of commercial development; to strengthen the
economic base of the city; and to protect the city’s tax base.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses listed as permitted uses in the C-3, C-2 and C-
1 Districts; however, said uses must meet the applicable requirements of that
respective zoning district;
      (2)   Drive-through service windows;
      (3)   Gasoline service stations, automotive and other repair services or
retail outlets where gasoline products are sold;
      (4)   Lumberyards or contractor yards, general warehousing and storage,
farm equipment or other heavy equipment sales and service, farm products,
warehousing and storage;
      (5)   Motor vehicle transportation freight terminals;
      (6)   Those uses of a commercial, retail or wholesale nature requiring
large outdoor loading areas, generating heavy truck or rail traffic and
requiring access to major transportation channels and/or creating influences
not acceptable in the C-3 District;
      (7)   Signs in accordance to
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances;
      (8)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incident to the above
permitted uses;
      (9)   Portable buildings; and
      (10)   Other uses of a similar character.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Amusement parks, circus or carnival grounds, commercial amusement
or recreational developments, or tents or other temporary structures used for
temporary purposes;
      (2)   Facilities for railroads or those utilities holding a franchise
under the city;
      (3)   Restaurants that serve alcoholic beverages for on-site consumption
and in accordance with related adopted policies. Also, bars, cocktail lounges,
taverns, cantinas, saloons, dance halls, nightclubs or other similar
businesses;
      (4)   A residence for a night watchman’s or caretaker employed on the
premises;
      (5)   Telephone, radio, television and/or other telecommunication tower;
and
      (6)   Changeable copy signs in accordance to
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Required conditions. Gasoline service stations or retail outlets where
gasoline products are sold, drive-through service businesses and veterinary
hospitals shall be subject to the same limitations as set forth in §
156.049 of this chapter.
   (E)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Unless otherwise grandfathered, any building erected or land used
for other than one or more of the preceding specified uses; and
      (2)   Any use of property that does not meet the required area dimensions
or exceeds the maximum height or density per gross acre.
   (F)   Area requirements. All uses in this district shall meet the area
requirements of §
156.086 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.052 I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purposes. The industrial district is established for the following
purposes:
      (1)   To accommodate wholesale and warehouse activities and industrial
operations whose external physical effects are restricted to the area of the
districts and in no manner affect in a detrimental way any of the surrounding
districts;
      (2)   To permit, along with any specified uses, the manufacturing,
compounding, processing, packaging, assembly and/or treatment of finished or
semi-finished products from previously prepared material as long as such use
has no adverse external effects such as noise or odor which extend beyond the
property line of the site;
      (3)   To protect against fire and explosions, pollution and other
environmental hazards;
      (4)   To protect, as far as possible, against congestion;
      (5)   To promote the most desirable use of land and direction, of
building development in accord with the forthcoming Comprehensive Plan of the
city; and
      (6)   To promote stability of industrial development; to strengthen the
economic base of the city; to protect the character of the district; to
conserve the value of land and buildings; and to protect the city’s tax base.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any of the following uses when the manufacturing, compounding or
processing of previously prepared materials are conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building. The portion of the land used for open storage
facilities for materials or equipment used in the manufacturing, compounding or
processing shall be total obscured by a buffer on those sides abutting R-
1 through R-4 Districts, and C-1 and C-2 Districts. The manufacturing,
compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of such products as bakery
goods, candy, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, toiletries, food products, hardware,
cutlery or other similar products; or bone, canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork,
feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, leather, paper, plastics, precious or
semiprecious metals or stones, sheet metal and yarns; clay, toys, small rubber
products; electrical appliances and/or equipment; manufacture and repair of
electric or neon signs, sheet metal products including heating and ventilating
equipment; and all public utilities, including buildings, necessary structures,
storage yards and other related uses;
      (2)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses, including portable buildings; and
      (3)   Other uses of a similar and no more objectionable character to
those principal uses permitted subject to any and all provisions of ordinances
relating to the use of property within the city.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   The residence of a watchman or caretaker employed on the premises;
      (2)   Amusement parks, circus or carnival grounds, commercial, amusement
or recreation developments or tents or other temporary structures used for
temporary purposes;
      (3)   Facilities for railroads or those utilities holding a franchise
under the city; and
      (4)   Changeable copy signs in accordance to
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Required conditions. gasoline service stations or retail outlets where
gasoline products are sold, drive-through businesses and veterinary hospitals
shall be subject to the same limitations as set forth in §
156.049 of this chapter.
   (E)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Unless otherwise grandfathered, any building erected or land used
for other than one or more of the preceding uses;
      (2)   Any use of property that does not meet the area requirements of
this district; exceeds the maximum height requirements or density per gross
acre; and
      (3)   Those uses which, in the opinion of the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the City Council, would be detrimental to the health, safety or
general welfare of the citizens of the city or to adjacent developments.
   (F)   Requirements. All uses in this district shall meet the area
requirements of §
156.087 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.053 PUBLIC ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The Public Zoning District is established for the following
purposes:
      (1)   To accommodate the development of property for public and/or
institutional purposes where such development will be done in an orderly manner
that would promote the public’s health, safety and general welfare;
      (2)   To establish a district that will not create excessive amounts of
continuous traffic patterns spilling over onto residential areas, and where
such uses may be located on street(s) that are suitable to accommodate heavy
traffic that may be incidental to its use;
      (3)   To create a district that will not have a permanent detrimental
effect on adjoining or nearby residential areas; and
      (4)   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with the
forthcoming Comprehensive Plan of the city.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Institutional uses such as office buildings or facilities for city,
county, state and federal government for administrative and/or emergency
responding purposes;
      (2)   Schools and associated office buildings including sentry
structures;
      (3)   Recreational amenities owned by public entities, including, but not
limited to, public parks, football stadiums or similar arenas, gymnasiums,
swimming pools, skate parks, pavilions, tennis courts, soccer fields and
similar uses and structures;
      (4)   Institutional uses such as a church and related amenities protected
under the freedom of religion;
      (5)   An accessory use customarily related to a principle use authorized
in this district;
      (6)   Paved or unpaved institutional parking lots which may include
accompanying retention/detention storm ponds; and
      (7)   Institutional signs being generally one sign only per site with a
maximum height of 15 feet; maximum square footage preface to be 80 square feet;
structural setback to be five feet to the property lines; and the maximum
number of advertising faces to be no more than two; also, any exempted signs as
outlined in
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances shall also be exempt in this zoning
district.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Telephone, radio, television and/or other telecommunication towers;
      (2)   Any civic sponsored recreational amusement and/or event such as a
circus, carnival or similar activity that isn’t normally associated with the
use of the site specific property;
      (3)   Activities associated with civic and/or cultural events where the
complimentary availability of alcoholic beverages may be evident;
      (4)   Prisons, jailhouses or similar structures used for similar
purposes, including halfway houses for juvenile offenders or similar type of
rehabilitation services;
      (5)   Public hospitals and/or health care facilities intended for
treating mental health patients who may have a tendency for erratic behavior
that may be a risk to the public’s safety; and
      (6)   Other uses not foreseen at the time of this chapter that the City
Council may deem appropriate to be best considered through the conditional use
permit process.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. Any building erected or land used for other than one
or more of the preceding legitimate public uses.
   (E)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Building setbacks shall be in accordance to the commercial area
requirements of §
156.086 of this chapter or as specifically established by the recorded
subdivision plat.
      (2)   No structure should be built over a utility easement.
      (3)   Uses in this district shall comply with the paved off-street
parking requirements of the city’s prevailing parking ordinance(s).
      (4)   The city shall have the inherent right to impose a minimum eight-
foot buffer fence of public buildings and/or facilities during the permit
process when adjacent to residential uses to better deflect emanating noise,
flying debris and the like.
      (5)   Integral to any proposed rezoning to a public zone, the applicant
shall provide a site plan reflecting the proposed use, points of entry/exit,
parking, setbacks and the like, in order to substantially inform the planning
staff and general public of the property’s public intent.
      (6)   Special provisions: any pre-existing institutional buildings,
structures, facilities and/or uses on properties that may be inadvertently
zoned to another non-public zone will be grandfathered as to use; however, the
city may at any time initiate a public rezoning process to said site(s), such
decision to be made by the City Council.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
CONDITIONAL USES; PERMITS
§ 156.065 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the regulations described by this subchapter is to allow the
compatible and orderly development within the city of uses which may be
suitable only in certain locations if developed in a specific way or only for a
limited period of time as set forth during the public hearing process. A
conditional use permit is required for all conditional uses listed in each
zoning district’s category. At no time may a structure or property be adapted,
or be in the process of being adapted, to a conditional use without first
obtaining a conditional use permit from the city.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.066 APPROVAL, PROCEDURE, RESPONSIBILITY AND APPEALS.
   The city’s Planning Director shall have the responsibility for processing
all conditional use permits and presenting them to the Planning and Zoning
Commission, and to the City Council where deemed required. The procedures for
consideration shall include, but not necessarily be limited to: notice to all
property owners within 200 feet of the subject property where a conditional use
permit is being sought shall be mailed so that the neighboring property owners
shall have received it not less than ten days prior to the scheduled public
hearing; the Planning Commission may approve or deny any conditional use permit
application based on the requirements for approval inclusive of commentary
received during the public hearing process; and any appeal for a denied
conditional use permit shall be in accordance to §
156.155 of this chapter. (Note: for any home occupation public hearing in a
multi-family setting, such must have the property’s owner’s written consent.)
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.067 APPLICATION, FILING PROCEDURES AND FEES.
   The applicant for a conditional use permit shall make an application on a
form prescribed by the city with legible site plans and legible floor plans as
deemed necessary by the city. The fee for a conditional use permit and a
renewal to a conditional use permit shall be determined by the City Council and
subject to intermittent modification. Payment of the filing fee shall not be
refundable in whole or in part regardless of the action taken on the zoning
issue by the city.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.068 SITE PLANS AND FLOOR PLANS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The purpose of the site plan and floor plan is: to ensure compliance
with this chapter and to assist in developing a safe and orderly conditional
use permit development/use; to assure the stability of land values and
investments; and enhancement of the public’s general welfare.
   (B)   The applicant shall file with the city’s Planning Department at least
one legible copy of the site plan and, where necessary, one copy of a detailed
floor plan. A conditional use permit shall be considered incomplete pending
submittal of such plans to the city.
   (C)   The site plan shall contain, at minimum, details of the following
features: location of all structures within the subject property, including
their building setbacks; landscaping; buffering fences including type and
height offence or wall barriers; ingress and egress; location and dimensions of
un-impeded paved off-street parking; height of all structures; and the location
of all signs as type, height and the like.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.069 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may permit a conditional use
subject to appropriate conditions and safeguards when it finds the following:
      (1)   The proposed use complies with the minimum standards established in
this chapter and other applicable ordinances;
      (2)   The proposed conditional use complies with the intent of the
district in which it is located; and
      (3)   The proposed conditional use will not be detrimental to the health,
welfare and safety of the surrounding neighborhood or its occupants, nor be
substantially or permanently injurious to the neighboring property.
   (B)   Appeal of a decision made by the city’s Planning and Zoning
Commission, by the applicant or by any neighboring property owner who may
object to its approval, shall be in accordance with §
156.155 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.070 DEVELOPMENT, REVOCATION AND/OR AUTOMATIC CANCELLATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The city’s Planning Director and the planning staff shall ensure
compliance with this chapter and the terms and conditions set forth in its
approval. They shall make random and/or intermittent inspections to determine
compliance of the city’s ordinances and policies and, if necessary, activate
enforcement measures to seek full compliance. The city’s planning staff shall
also investigate any complaints of alleged non-compliance to the conditional
use permit’s property and shall keep a record of all complaints indicating what
action has or had been taken. These records shall then be presented to the
city’s Advisory Commission and/or City Council at the time of proposed renewal.
   (B)   Upon determination of non-compliance of the conditional use permit to
prevailing ordinances and/or terms of its approval, the city’s planning staff
shall give written notice to the permit holder of record citing the nature of
the alleged violation, and the action necessary to remedy the violation; and
shall set forth a time period of not less than ten calendar days, nor more than
30 calendar days, in which to comply.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission, after due hearing called to
consider any violation that would warrant its consideration prior to any
renewal date, may revoke or suspend a conditional use permit that has been
legitimately documented to continually violate the city’s ordinances and
policies. Continued use without a permit will be a violation of this chapter
and shall be subject to the Municipal Court process to seek proper
adjudication.
   (D)   If a conditional use permit has not been used within one year after
approval, the permit is automatically cancelled; and any desire to seek its
activation must again be processed as originally considered (i.e., file the
filing fee, site plan review, advisory board action in a public hearing format
and the like).
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.071 PERIOD OF CONDITIONAL USE AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   A conditional use permit shall have a time period of one year unless
otherwise approved by the City Council. If the conditional use does have a time
limit to expire, or to commence, it shall be set forth at the time of approval.
Any application for renewal of a conditional use permit shall make an
application, with the filing fee paid, not less than 30 calendar days prior to
its expiration deadline’s date. If, after proper inspection and documentation
by the planning staff finds that there have been no complaints, and the
original terms of approval have been fully complied with, the conditional use
permit may be administratively approved by the Planning Director. However, if
there is any evidence of non-compliance or filed complaints, then the renewal
of the conditional use permit must comply with the same procedures and public
notification measures as originally processed through the Planning and Zoning
Commission and/or the City Council.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified at the time of approval, a conditional use
permit shall not be transferable upon transfer of title to property for which a
conditional use permit has been granted.
   (C)   A conditional use permit shall be required for any use that is
required to have a conditional use permit under this chapter, but pre-existed
the adoption of this chapter, if such use is discontinued or abandoned for 120
consecutive calendar days.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.072 CONDITIONS OF CONDITIONAL USE.
   (A)   Home occupations.
      (1)   The area used in conducting the home occupation will be clearly
secondary to the primary residential use. Such permitted home occupation shall
not create offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, hear or glare of
require more than four parking spaces available to the owner/clients.
      (2)   Only a one-foot by one-foot sign may be permitted to reflect the
home occupation’s business, but must be attached to the primary dwelling (i.e.,
no sign shall be permitted on the front or side yard, on trees, mailboxes or
such other non-dwelling features).
      (3)   There shall be no exterior display or alterations indicating that
the residential structure is being used for any purpose other than that of a
dwelling including painting displays, ribbons, balloons or any other indicator
of attraction other than the maximum one-foot by one-foot sign as affixed to
the primary dwelling.
      (4)   There shall be no more than one additional unrelated employee other
than the immediate members of the family residing on the premises.
      (5)   There shall be no outside storage of materials or products.
      (6)   The conditional use shall not create frequent or heavy traffic
greater than 10% of the average load per hour per street.
      (7)   Any proposed home occupation desired to be activated in a multi-
family setting (R-2, R-3 and the like) shall have the property’s owner’s
consent to do so, and notice shall also be given to the tenants within a 100-
foot radius where the city shall give serious consideration to the proposed
home occupation’s effect to the off-street parking available to said units.
      (8)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may, under extenuating or
special circumstances unique to the home occupation, recommend waiver of the
provisions above to the City Council who shall have ultimate authority on the
matter.
   (B)   Mobile homes.
      (1)   One mobile home, not older than 15 years, may be placed on an
unsubdivided tract if it is five acres or more, and the majority of the
property is agricultural and/or unused.
      (2)   The mobile home must be located in such a manner as to have access
to public right-of-way within 300 feet.
      (3)   The mobile home must be connected to a potable water source with an
approved private sewage system or connected to an organized sanitary sewer
system.
      (4)   There must be arrangements made by the mobile home owner/tenant for
garbage collection and proper disposal.
      (5)   The mobile home must have skirting as a part of its approval
process and may be activated for use without it, but shall have such skirting
installed within 45 calendar days after the water meter has been activated for
use.
   (C)   Bars, cocktail lounges, taverns, cantinas, saloons, dance halls or
nightclubs.
      (1)   The property line of the lot of any of the above-mentioned
businesses must be at least 300 feet from the nearest residence, church, school
or publicly owned property (note: public streets and alleys, for the purpose of
this regulation, are not considered as a part of this “publicly owned
property”) or must provide sufficient solid buffering and sound insulation of
the building such that the business is not visible and cannot be heard from
such structures or areas, and must be designed to prevent disruption of the
character of adjacent residential areas. The Planning and Zoning Commission,
under extenuating or special circumstances unique to the site or event, may
recommend waiver of the 300-foot requirement to the City Council who shall have
the ultimate authority on the matter.
      (2)   The above-mentioned businesses must be as close as possible to a
major arterial street system, or heavier trafficked street, and shall not allow
the traffic it generates onto nearby residential streets, or allow it to exit
into and disrupt residential areas.
      (3)   The abovementioned businesses must provide unimpeded paved off-
street parking in accordance with the prevailing off-street parking ordinances,
and make special provisions, if necessary, to prevent use of adjacent
residential streets for parking.
      (4)   The abovementioned businesses must do everything reasonably
possible to prevent the unauthorized parking of its patrons on adjacent
businesses or residential properties including when necessary, the installation
offences, hedges and/or the re-orientation of entrances/exits.
      (5)   The abovementioned businesses may also be required, as part of
their conditional use permit approval process, provide security lighting and
perimeter fencing, and may also include provision of security personnel to
monitor its premises for safety.
      (6)   The abovementioned businesses must make provisions to keep litter
to a minimum and to keep any litter from blowing onto adjacent properties.
      (7)   The abovementioned businesses shall have a maximum capacity set
forth at the time of its opening and shall have it intermittently monitored for
compliance by the city.
   (D)   Guesthouses and separate servant’s quarters.
      (1)   The abovementioned uses shall only be considered on properties of
not less than 12,000 square feet in all districts.
      (2)   There shall be no rent or monies paid by the guest or servant to
the property owner thus further legitimizing the guesthouse or servant’s
quarters as such.
      (3)   Guesthouses or separate servant’s quarters shall be no utility
connections independent from the primary dwelling.
   (E)   Amusement parks, circus or carnival grounds, commercial or recreation
amusement developments or tents. Amusement parks, circus or carnival grounds,
commercial or recreation amusement developments or tents or other similar
temporary structures may not be located within 300 feet of any residentially
used property. The measurement of such distance to be from lot line to lot
line. The Planning and Zoning Commission may, under extenuating or special
circumstances unique to the site or event, recommend waiver of the 300-foot
requirement on a temporary basis to the City Council who shall have the
ultimate decision on the matter.
   (F)   Existing railroads and private utilities. Existing railroads and
private utilities, including telephone service, may continue to be operated and
maintained in residential and commercial districts but no new railroad or
utility structure other than the usual poles, wires and underground utilities
shall be established in such districts without a conditional use permit.
   (G)   Household goods warehousing or storage in individually rented/leased
storage units.
      (1)   Storage units shall be located in such a manner to minimum traffic
impact on residential streets and adjacent residential uses.
      (2)   There shall be no loading decks or ramps for heavy vehicles.
      (3)   There must be a security fence to protect the units and patrons.
      (4)   There shall be no outside storage of materials, products or goods.
      (5)   Paved perimeter access driveways for police patrol and fire
protection shall be provided prior to occupancy.
      (6)   Storage units shall not be used for commercial purposes, either on
a temporary or permanent basis.
      (7)   Security lighting (e.g., downcast lighting) must be provided in a
manner which minimizes impact to adjacent residential areas.
   (H)   Pollution. No form of pollution shall emanate beyond the immediate
property line of the use permitted.
   (I)   Reasonable restrictions. The Planning and Zoning Commission, with the
ratifying approval of the City Council, may impose additional reasonable
restrictions or conditions to carry out the spirit and intent of this chapter
and to mitigate adverse effects of the proposed conditional use. These
additional requirements may include, but not be limited to, increased open
space, loading and parking requirements, suitable landscaping, higher buffering
and additional improvements such as concave mirrors and sidewalks.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016) Penalty, see §
156.999
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
§ 156.085 LANDSCAPING AND BUFFERING.
   (A)   (1)   Any property to be used for commercial and/or industrial use
having exterior services and/or storage shall be buffered from any adjacent
residentially used property or those residential properties separated by a
public alley.
      (2)   Buffers shall be at a minimum height of six feet; however, if
warranted due to circumstances that may be unique to the site and neighboring
properties, an eight-foot buffer may be imposed to assure privacy and meet the
intent of this regulation.
   (B)   This provision, however, shall not apply to the specific area of
gasoline service islands. If such is proposed, the buffer may be installed at
the property’s side and rear boundary lines, as necessary to obscure
residential properties.
   (C)   Exterior service and/or storage sites shall be buffered by the owner
or operator prior to the city permitting occupancy of the structure.
   (D)   Any ordinances concerning site obstructions of intersections shall be
applicable to any buffer (i.e., the buffer may need to be “clipped” to maximize
visibility).
   (E)   Prior to construction of a buffer, complete plans showing the type of
material, depth of beam and structural support shall be submitted to the city
for approval.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.086 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The limitations on setbacks, area requirements and height restrictions
are intended to control all areas zoned and platted for commercial and
industrial uses after the adoption of this chapter. Where lots are existing and
partially developed, the setbacks for vacant lots shall continue to be the norm
established by those commercial/industrial lots already developed; thus
assuring a more consistent and uniform overall development.
   (B)   The following setback and height requirements shall be hereafter
imposed for commercial and industrial developments.
      (1)   A minimum ten-foot side yard setback shall be required on corner
lots, unless a higher setback is warranted by plat note.
      (2)   The minimum width of a building site shall be 25 feet of frontage.
      (3)   The minimum front yard building setback shall equal to one-fourth
(25%) of the street right-of-way width which the lot faces or in line with the
majority setback of existing structures in the block face, whichever appears to
be more conducive to a uniform ambience. In the C-1 District, the front setback
shall be one foot back of street right-of-way line for each two feet of height
or as specified above.
      (4)   Side yard setbacks from all lot lines shall be one foot back for
each two feet in height including corner lots, except a building may be built
to a lot line when not adjacent to a residential zone and where a fire-
resistant wall meeting the Building Code requirements is provided.
      (5)   Rear yard setbacks shall be a minimum of five feet unless there is
a wider easement.
      (6)   The height of buildings may not exceed the depth of the front yard
plus the width of the street right-of-way which it faces.
      (7)   See §
156.086 of this chapter for exceptions and modifications.
      (8)   A minimum of 5% of the lot area must be maintained as a permanent
landscaped open space.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.087 EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Setbacks.
      (1)   At the time of submission of any subdivision plat, the city shall
have the authority to set forth, accept and/or approve building setback lines
that may not necessarily be in accord to §
156.086 of this chapter due to special circumstances.
      (2)   Where setbacks were (or are) established on a recorded plat, those
setbacks shall be enforced as minimum setbacks though they may not be in accord
to §
156.086 of this chapter.
      (3)   The minimum building setback shall be increased to 40 feet when
adjacent to a major arterial or higher trafficked street for any residential,
commercial, industrial, institutional or other proposed building use.
   (B)   Front yards.
      (1)   On lots having double frontage, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets, unless one side is fenced-in and is not accessible
form that street. Where such a fenced-in “front” occurs, the normal rear
building setback for permanent buildings shall be required unless that subject
street is a major thoroughfare or minor arterial street which in such case
would not be less than 15 feet.
      (2)   Front yard setbacks for all uses shall be increased as follows when
lots front on streets other than minor residential streets:
         (a)   Collectors: 30 feet;
         (b)   Minor arterials: 35 feet; and
         (c)   Major arterials or major thoroughfares: 40 feet.
      (3)   A maximum five-foot unenclosed porch/doorway support may be
permitted within the setbacks on the above street classifications.
      (4)   Lots fronting cul-de-sacs shall have a front building setback not
less than those in alignment to the majority of the buildings on the same block
or set at the following whichever is greater:
         (a)   R-1 lots: ten feet;
         (b)   R-4 lots: five feet; and
         (c)   R-2 lots: ten feet.
      (5)   Open carport structures for residential properties along designated
major thoroughfares may be built within the minimum 40-front setback, but said
support columns shall not be less than 20 feet and shall always be unenclosed
for which an encumbrance agreement shall be recorded in the county’s Office of
Property Records.
      (6)   If the city denies a permit application for an unenclosed carport,
the applicant may appeal said denial to the Zoning Board of Adjustments
pursuant to its public hearing and application process.
   (C)   Side yards.
      (1)   On a corner lot in all districts, the width of the side yard along
the street shall not be less than ten feet; provided that, the buildable width
of such a lot shall not be reduced to less than 38 feet. This regulation shall
not apply to those lots of record which have existing buildings prior to the
date of this chapter. However, should these buildings be removed, destroyed or
in any way eliminated from the property, they shall hereafter comply. Corner
lots subdivided after the date of this chapter shall be at least four feet
wider than the minimum lot size in residential zones and ten feet wider in
commercial zones.
      (2)   No accessory building shall project into the required yard along
any street without an awarded variance by the Zoning Board of Adjustments.
      (3)   Where a lot of record at the time of the effective date of this
chapter is less than 50 feet in width and is not zoned R-4, the required side
yard may be reduced to 10% of the width of the lot; provided that, no side yard
shall be less than three and one-half feet.
      (4)   Side yard setbacks for all residential uses shall be increased when
lots are adjacent to the following street classifications:
         (a)   Collectors: five feet; and
         (b)   Minor arterial streets: 20 feet, but may be 15 feet with a solid
buffer.
   (D)   Rear yards.
      (1)   An accessory building not exceeding 20 feet in height shall not be
closer than 12 feet to the main building and no closer than four feet to any
rear lot line unless there is a wider rear easement in which case, the building
shall be off the easement.
      (2)   The ordinary projections of sills, eaves and cornices and
ornamental features may extend to a distance not to exceed 32 inches into a
required yard.
      (3)   Open or lattice-enclosed fire escapes, outside stairways,
balconies, chimneys or similar structures may be permitted within the rear yard
setback, but not to exceed a distance of five feet from its main structure.
   (E)   Lot area per family. Where a lot of record at the time of the
effective date of this chapter has less area or width than herein required in
the district in which it is located and is not zoned R-4, and the owner of such
lot does not own any other parcel or tract adjacent thereto, said lot may
nonetheless be used for a one-family dwelling or for any non-dwelling use
permitted in the district in which it is located, as long as it meets all other
setback, parking and the like requirements.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.088 PORTABLE BUILDINGS.
   Portable buildings shall be a permitted use when said buildings shall be
used as temporary offices during construction to any type of development.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.089 OBSCENE MATERIALS AND SEXUAL ACTIVITIES
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MEASUREMENTS. For the purpose of this section, shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises of
an adult commercial establishment to the nearest property line of a church,
public school, private school, city-owned real property or a district
restricted to residential use under this chapter.
      OFFENSIVE. The work in which the representations appear, taken as a
whole, appeals to the prurient interest and patently depicts or portrays the
prohibited sexually explicit material in a manner which, taken as a whole,
lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
      PERSONS. Any individual, agent, consultant, partnership, association or
corporation.
      PRIVATE SCHOOL. Any campus, grounds or building of an institution for the
teaching or instruction of children between the ages of three years to 12 years
of age, said institution being a non- profit school owned, controlled, operated
and conducted by a bona fide religious, denominational or a similar institution
or governed by a foundation, exempt from property taxation under the laws of
the state.
      PUBLIC SCHOOL. Any campus, grounds or buildings or an institution for
teaching or instruction which is a part of the local school districts created
under the laws of the state situated wholly or partly within the city limits.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. The act of human or animal sexual stimulation, oral
intercourse, anal intercourse, human-animal sexual stimulation, homosexual
acts, direct physical stimulation or touching of clothed or unclothed human
genitals, buttocks or female breasts; or torture by or upon a person in the
context of sexual stimulation which is conducted at any place that regardless
if said establishment has an alcoholic beverage permit or not.
      SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT MATERIAL. Any pictorial or written material depicting
human sexual intercourse, human masturbation, animal bestiality, oral
intercourse, anal intercourse, human-animal sexual stimulation acts, homosexual
acts, direct physical stimulation or touching of clothed or unclothed human
genitals, buttocks or female breasts, or female flagellation or torture by or
upon a person in the content of sexual stimulation. The material shall be
judged without regard to any covering which may be affixed or printed over the
material in order to obscure genital areas in a depiction otherwise falling
within the definition of this chapter. Legitimate works of art or of
anthropological significance are not included within the definitions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Display or sale of offensive, sexually explicit materials. No person
shall distribute or sell any sexually explicit material to any other person
within 1,300 feet of a church, private or public school, any city-owned real
property, or within 1,000 feet of the outside boundaries of any residential
zoning district.
   (C)   Display of sexual activities. No sexual activities shall be engaged in
or displayed within 1,300 feet of a church, private or public school, any city-
owned real property or within 1,000 feet of any residential zoning district.
   (D)   Display of human genital areas, buttocks and the like. No one shall
display their genital areas, or human buttocks, or female breasts to public
view for a fee or the entertainment at any commercial establishment within
1,300 feet of a church, private or public school, or any city owned real
property, or within 1,000 feet of any residential zoning district.
   (E)   Offensive material in places frequented by persons under 17 years of
age. No person shall exhibit or display sexually explicit material, as defined
herein, in any place frequented by persons 17 years of age or younger.
   (F)   Display of human genital areas, buttocks, female breasts and the like.
In commercial establishments frequented by persons under 17 years of age, no
one shall display his or her human genital areas, buttocks or female breasts,
to public view for a fee or the entertainment at any commercial establishment
frequented by persons 17 years of age or younger.
   (G)   Permits, conditional use permits, licenses not to be granted to
persons in violation of this section. No permit or conditional use permit, or
other license shall be granted by the city to anyone in violation of this
chapter. Any permit, conditional use permit or license granted by the city
shall be terminated and voided upon the determination that such party is in
violation of this chapter by any court, whether it is a record court or not. In
the event of an appeal of such determination, this provision will be suspended
only upon the posting of a $25,000 surety bond with the City Secretary
conditioned upon a final determination that such person was not in violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016) Penalty, see §
156.999
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 156.100 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED DURING PERMIT PROCESS.
   At a time when any building permit is being submitted in any district for
the construction of a primary building or its reconstruction or rehabilitation,
or when a business permit is desired, paved off-street parking and maneuvering
spaces in accordance with the minimum requirements given in these regulations.
All parking and maneuvering space, unless otherwise stated, shall be provided
on private property or the public grounds of the development site of said
public entity. It is hereby ordained that when, in the opinion of the city,
that the provisions of these regulations are clearly not adequate, additional
parking requirements may be required as deemed necessary for a safe and useful
development.
(Ord. 2016-07B, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANEUVERING SPACE. The space entirely on private property, or the
development’s site, required or the maneuvering of motor vehicles into and out
of off-street parking spaces so that the backing of any vehicle into the street
right-of-way, or that similar paved portion of a private street, shall be
prevented or avoided. Such MANEUVERING SPACE shall be no closer than eight feet
from the back edge of the curb or future curb where no curb exists.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. An area with a paved surface where no part is
closer than eight feet from the back edge of the curb or future curb where none
exists at the time of construction. The width and length shall be a minimum
nine feet in width and 18 feet in length, or the width and length of which
shall exceed by a minimum of two feet the dimensions of the type of vehicle
normally to be parked in any given space, and connected with a street or alley
by a paved driveway affording satisfactory ingress and egress.
(Ord. 2016-07B, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.102 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
                                           2 spaces for every billiard table;
                                           however, additional parking may be
                                           imposed based on any accompanying
Billiard hall                              restaurant use (i.e., 1 parking
                                           space for each 75-square-foot
                                           increment of floor space used
                                           therewith)
Bowling alley                              5 spaces for each bowling lane
Church or religious use                    1 space for each four seats in the
                                           main assembly area
Commercial sports or entertainment arena   1 space for each 3 seats or seating
or gymnasium                               spaces
Dance hall, events center, assembly        1 space for each 100 square feet of
without fixed seats                        floor area used; storage areas are
                                           exempted from this calculation
                                           A minimum of 2 parking spaces for
                                           each family dwelling unit in a
Duplex or two-family units                 building. The maneuvering space may
                                           be imposed as for single-family
                                           dwellings (i.e., 8 feet from the
                                           back edge of the curb)
Funeral home                               1 space for each 4 seats in the
                                           individual funeral rooms
                                           1 parking space for each 8 seats in
High school or college                     the main auditorium or 4 parking
                                           spaces for each classroom, whichever
                                           is greater
Hospital or similar facility               2 spaces for each bed
                                           1 space for each sleeping room or
                                           suite, plus 1 space for each 200
Hotel or motel                             square feet of commercial floor area
                                           contained therein (e.g., restaurant
                                           area and the like)
                                           1 space for each 2 employees on the
Manufacturing, industrial business,        maximum shift, plus space to
creamery, bottling plant, warehouse or     accommodate all trucks and other
similar use                                vehicles used in connection
                                           therewith
                                           4 off-street parking spaces for the
Medical and/or dental office or similar    first 200 square feet, plus 1 space
uses                                       for each additional 200 foot
                                           increment of the total floor area
                                           2 off-street parking spaces for each
Multi-family dwellings                     apartment; paved maneuvering space
                                           shall be required as in a commercial
                                           setting
Nursing homes, homes for the aged or       1 parking space for each 2 beds
disabled or other similar uses
Restaurants, nightclubs, cafés or similar 1 space for each 75 square feet of
uses                                       floor area or 1 space for each 3
                                           seats, whichever is greater
School (except high school or college)     1.5 parking spaces for each
                                           classroom of instruction
Single-family dwellings                    2 parking spaces per dwelling unit
                                           in all districts
Theater or auditorium (except for school   1 space for each 3 seats or bench
use)                                       seating spaces
 
(Ord. 2016-07B, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.103 COMPUTING PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The term FLOOR AREA shall mean the gross floor area of the specific
use.
   (B)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall be
constructed to the next number of 0.5 or above.
   (C)   The parking space required for a use not specifically mentioned shall
be the same as required for a use of similar nature. If no other similar use is
reasonably evident, the City Manager, by executive order after consulting with
staff and members of the City Council, may impose a temporary moratorium
pending review and action to formally amend these parking regulations to
promptly establish parking for that unforeseen use.
   (D)   After the effective date of these regulations, whenever a property is
changed or enlarged in floor area, number of employees, number of dwelling
units, seating capacity or otherwise, to create a need for an increase of 10%
or more in the number of existing parking spaces, such parking shall be
provided on the basis of the enlargement or change. However, whenever a
building or use existing prior to the effective date of these regulations is
enlarged to the extent of 50% or more in total floor area used, such building
or use shall then fully comply with the parking requirements of this chapter
for the entire development.
   (E)   In the case of mixed uses, the parking spaces required shall equal the
sum of the various uses computed separately.
(Ord. 2016-07B, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.104 LOCATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   All parking spaces required shall be located on the same property the
activity or establishment is being proposed. However, where an increase in the
number of spaces is required by a change in use or enlargement or where such
spaces are provided collectively or used jointly by two or more activities or
establishments, the required spaces may be located off-site, but not to exceed
300 feet from a nearby institutional building whose parking may be available.
   (B)   Not more than 50% of the parking spaces required for theaters, bowling
alley, dance halls, nightclubs or cafés, and up to 100% of the parking spaces
required for a church or school auditorium may be provided and use jointly by
banks, offices, retail stores, repair shops, service establishments and similar
uses not open, shall be used or operating during the same hours; provided,
however, that, written agreement thereto is properly executed and filed as
specified in these regulations. In any case where the required parking spaces
are not located on the same property with the activity or business, or where
such spaces are collectively provided and used, a written agreement thereby
assuring their retention for such use shall be properly drawn and executed by
the parties concerned, approved as to form by the city, and shall be filed with
the accompanying building permit. Furthermore, said affidavit/agreement shall
be filed for recording to alert any potential buyers of said agreement.
(Ord. 2016-07B, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.105 LOADING SPACE.
   Every building or part thereof erected or occupied for retail business,
service, manufacturing, storage, warehouse, hotel, mortuary or any other use
similarly involving the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by
vehicles, shall provide off-street loading space in accordance with the
following requirements.
   (A)   In the C-1, C-2, C-3 and I-1 Districts, one loading space is required
for each 10,000 square feet or fraction thereof, of floor area in the building.
   (B)   In the C-4 District, one loading space is required for the first
15,000 square feet of floor area in the building and one additional loading
space for each 15,000 square feet, or fraction thereof, of floor area in excess
of the initial 15,000 square feet increment.
(Ord. 2016-07B, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.106 MINIMUM DIMENSIONS.
 
                        Each parking space shall not be less than 9 feet in
90-degree parking       width and 18 feet in length. Maneuvering space shall
                        not be less than 24 feet.
                        Each parking space shall not be less than 9 feet wide
                        and perpendicular to the parking angle nor less than 20
60-degree angle parking feet in length when measured at right angles to the
                        building or parking line. Maneuvering space shall not
                        be less than 16 feet perpendicular to the building or
                        parking line.
                        Each parking space shall not be less than 9 feet in
                        width perpendicular to the parking angle, nor less than
45-degree angle parking 18.5 feet in length when measured at right angles to
                        the building or parking line. Maneuvering space shall
                        be not less than 12 feet perpendicular to the building
                        or parking line.
NOTE TO TABLE:
When off-street parking facilities is located adjacent to a public alley, the
width of such alley may be assumed to be a portion of the maneuvering space
required.
 
(Ord. 2016-07B, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.107 PAVEMENT STANDARDS.
   All parking lots shall be paved according to professional paving standards
as generally found and expected. The parking lanes must be clearly marked by
painted striping, buttons or other approved materials. It is the expected
responsibility of the owner or business occupant to maintain such painted
striping so as to be clearly viewed and used therefor.
(Ord. 2016-07B, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.108 MINIMUM INGRESS REQUIREMENTS FOR PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   The width of entrances and exits shall be 12 feet for one-way exits/
entrances and 25 feet wide at the property line.
   (B)   Two-way entrances/exits shall be 25 feet and a maximum of 45 feet wide
at the property line.
   (C)   The desirable curb return radii are between five and 20 feet. The
width of driveway, street lengths and traffic volumes must be considered when
setting curb return radii so as to minimize hazards from entering and existing
traffic.
   (D)   Obstructions to visibility at intersections of exits and entrances
from public rights-of-way shall have a non-obstruction 30-foot by 30-foot
corner clip to maximize traffic safety. No landscaping, decorative fence or
other structure shall be permitted to be at a height to obstruct such safe
visibility corner clip.
   (E)   Location of entrances and exits to parking areas shall be as near to
the center of the block as practical so as to minimize traffic interference at
the intersections. All entrances and exits must be clearly marked. The exact
location of entrances and exits must be proposed for approval by the city at
the building permit stage. Entrances on state highways must be approved by the
city as well as by the state’s Highway Department. The city reserves the right
to reduce the number of entrances where requirements of traffic safety demand.
The cost of such reductions and entrances will be incurred by the applicant.
   (F)   As a general guide, any parking area having a capacity of more than 75
spaces shall have more than one entrance and one exit, and any parking area
having a capacity of more than 150 spaces shall have entrances and exits on
more than one street or alley. The specific requirements for the number of
entrances and exits will be determined by the nature of the establishment,
anticipated traffic flow in and around the parking area and the requirements of
traffic safety.
(Ord. 2016-07B, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.109 EXCEPTIONS; APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Existing structures in use for residential purposes prior to the
passage of this subchapter shall be exempt so long as the residential use
continues. The conversion of any residential unit, or part thereof, into a
multi-family dwelling, or to be used for commercial purposes shall cause the
city to require the minimum number of paved off-street parking spaces.
   (B)   (1)   The Zoning Board of Adjustments (ZBA) shall be designated to
hear and decide appeals or variances and waivers, in whole or parts thereof,
and shall conduct its hearings pursuant to the fees, notice of hearing and
general rules of assessment and action described in this chapter and outlined
in any prevailing state legislation.
      (2)   However, the Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council
shall have full authority on off-street parking variances, appeals and/or
waivers for any conditional use permit proposed before said public hearing
forums.
(Ord. 2016-07B, passed 8-9-2016)
NON-CONFORMANCES
§ 156.120 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   The general public, the City Council and the Planning and Zoning Commission
are directed to take note that non-conformities in the use and development of
land and buildings are to be avoided, or eliminated where now existing wherever
and whenever possible, and should not be given permits to solidify or enhance
their non-conforming status, except when necessary to preserve property rights
established prior to the date these regulations become effective as to the
subject property and when necessary to promote the general welfare and to
protect the character of the surrounding properties.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.121 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the terms of this
chapter by reason of restrictions on area, height, yard setbacks, its location
on the lot or any other requirements concerning the structure, such structure
may be continued as long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions.
   (A)   No such non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its structural non-conformity, but any structure or portion
thereof may be altered to decrease its structural non-conformity.
   (B)   Should such non-conforming structure or non-conforming portions of
structure be damaged by any means to an extent of more than 50% of its
replacement costs at the time of damage and/or (partial) destruction, it shall
not be reconstructed, rebuilt or refurbished, except in accordance with the
provision of §
156.137 of this chapter.
   (C)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to all the zoning regulations of the
district in which it is located after it is moved including, but not limited
to, usage, off-street parking needs and the like.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.122 NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR PREMISES.
   If a permitted use involving individual structures with a replacement cost
of $1,000 or more, or of structure and land combination, exists at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, that would not be
allowed in the district under the terms of this chapter, the use may be
continued as long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered.
   (B)   The use of the structure shall only be changed to a use permitted in
the district in which it is located.
   (C)   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy and land outside such building.
   (D)   When a non-conforming structure and land combination, in which a non-
conforming use is converted to a permitted use or is discontinued or abandoned
for 180 consecutive calendar days, the structure or structure and land
combination, shall not thereafter be used, except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (E)   Any use existing on the effective date of this chapter which is listed
as a conditional use in the district where it is located shall be and shall
remain a non-conforming use until a conditional use permit is obtained as
provided for in this chapter if such use is discontinued or abandoned for 180
consecutive calendar days the structure and shall not thereafter be used,
except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   (F)   (1)   Where non-conforming use status applies to a structure or a
structure and land combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall
eliminate the non-conforming use status.
      (2)   DESTRUCTION, for the purpose of this division (F), is defined as
damage to an extent or more than 50% of the replacement cost at the time of
destruction.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.123 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   On any non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
non-conforming use, no work nay be done in any period of 12 consecutive months
on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of non-loading walls, fixture,
wiring or plumbing to an extent exceeding 10% of the current replacement cost
of the non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of the structure, as
the case may be.
   (B)   If 50% or more of a non-conforming structure containing a conforming
use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due lack of repairs or maintenance,
and is declared by a duly authorized official to be unsafe or unlawful by
reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be restored, repaired or
rebuilt, except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it
is located.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS
§ 156.135 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   (1)   A Zoning Board of Adjustments (ZBA) is hereby created in
accordance to the prevailing regulations of Tex. Local Government Code §
211.008.
      (2)   It shall consist of at least five regular members and, if desired
by the City Council, two alternates who shall be appointed by the City Council,
for a term of two years, and removable for cause by the City Council upon
written charges and after public hearing on the members’ removal. Said two
alternate members shall serve in the absence of one or more regular members
when requested to do so by the Mayor, the City Manager or an authorized
official, as the case may be. All cases to be heard by the ZBA will be heard by
a minimum of four members.
      (3)   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member by
appointment of the City Council.
   (B)   A quorum of the ZBA shall consist of four members inclusive of any
alternate(s) that may be present.
   (C)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall be an ex officio
member of the ZBA without power of vote and as an ex officio member shall act
as Secretary of the ZBA and shall set up and maintain a separate file for each
application for appeal, special exception and variance received and shall
record therein the names and addresses of all persons, firms and corporations
to whom notices are mailed, including the date of mailing and the person by
whom such notices were delivered to the mailing clerk, post office or mailbox
and further keep a record of all notices published as required herein. All
records and files herein provided for shall be permanent and official files and
records of the city and shall never be destroyed.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.136 PROCEDURES AND APPEALS.
   Procedures before the ZBA, and appeals to and from such Board, shall be
governed by the prevailing regulations of Tex. Local Government Code § 211.008,
which reflects that:
   (A)   The ZBA shall adopt rules to govern its proceedings provided, however,
that such rules are not inconsistent with this chapter or state law. Meetings
of the ZBA shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other items
as the Board may determine. The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the
acting Chairperson may administer oath and compel the attendance of witnesses;
   (B)   All meetings of the ZBA shall be open to the general public. The ZBA
shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each regular member
upon each application or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact,
and shall keep record of its examinations and other official actions, all of
which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be a
perpetual public record;
   (C)   Appeals to the ZBA may be made by any person aggrieved, or by any
municipal officer, department or board affected by any decision of the City
Manager or his or her duly authorized representative, typically the Planning
Director, in the enforcement of this chapter. Such appeal shall be filed with
the ZBA by the Planning Director within 15 days after the original decision
rendered by the Director of Planning;
   (D)   Notice of hearing before the ZBA required:
      (1)   The ZBA shall hold a public hearing on all appeals made to it and
written notice of such public hearing shall be sent to the applicant, all
persons who are owners of real property lying within 200 feet of the property
on which the appeal is made, and all other persons deemed by the ZBA to be
affected thereby;
      (2)   Such notice shall be given not less than ten days (to be received)
before the date set for the public hearing to all such owners who have rendered
their said property for city taxes as the ownership appears on the latest
available tax records to the city. Such notice may be served by depositing the
notice, properly addressed and postage paid, in the U.S. Post Office; and
      (3)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of
local circulation not less than 15 calendar days prior to such being formally
considered by the ZBA.
   (E)   The Secretary of the Board shall forthwith notify in writing the City
Council, the Planning and Zoning Commission and the city’s Chief Building
Inspector of each decision, interpretation, special exception and variance
granted under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.137 POWERS.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Adjustments shall have the following powers, and
it shall be its duty:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decisions or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of this chapter;
      (2)   The ZBA shall have the power to authorize upon appeal in specific
cases such variances from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to
the public interest, where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship and so
that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed and substantial justice done.
Such variances from the strict application of the terms of this chapter must be
in harmony with its purpose and intent, and shall be authorized only when the
ZBA is satisfied that the applicant has proven the following conditions exist:
         (a)   A literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will
result in unnecessary hardship. Financial hardship is not sufficient to show
unnecessary hardship;
         (b)   The property in question is not suitable and useable for uses
permitted in the district in which it lies, even though there will be a loss of
profit or other economic disadvantage on account of the use;
         (c)   The unnecessary hardship was not self-inflicted;
         (d)   The hardship is unique to the land or parcel involved, and is
not shared in general by others in the neighborhood, also as a result of the
zoning ordinance and thus perhaps requiring rezoning;
         (e)   The variance will not alter the essential character of the
locality and the surrounding property will be protected; and
         (f)   The variance requested is not in actuality a reclassification of
land uses or the creation of new districts. Such action amounts to land use
legislation (rezoning) and may only be done by the legislative body of the
city.
      (3)   In hearing and deciding appeals, to grant special exceptions in the
following instances:
         (a)   Interpret the provision of this chapter in such a way as to
carry out the intent and purpose of the chapter, as shown on the maps fixing
the several zoning districts (zoning map), accompanying and made a part of this
chapter, where the street layout actually on the ground may vary from the
street layout as shown on said maps;
         (b)   Waive or reduce the parking and loading requirements in any of
the districts whenever the character or use of the building is such as to make
unnecessary the full provisions of parking or loading facilities, or where such
regulations would impose an unreasonable hardship upon the use of the lot, as
contrasted with merely granting an advantage or convenience;
         (c)   Permit the reconstruction of a non-conforming building which has
been damaged to the extent of more than 50% of its replacement cost; and
         (d)   If no structural alterations are made, any non-conforming use of
structure, or structure and premises in combination, may, as a special
exception, be changed to another non-conforming use; provided, the ZBA shall
find that the proposed non-conforming isn’t more intensive than the previously
existing non-conforming use.
   (B)   In permitting such exceptions, the ZBA may require any conditions and
safeguards as it shall deem appropriate to see that the purpose and intent of
this chapter are met, and the documented violation of any such conditions or
safeguards shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Board may, in conformity
with the provisions of the prevailing regulations of Tex. Local Government Code
§ 211.009 and this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may
reverse, affirm or modify in whole or in part the order, requirement, decision
or determination appealed from and make such order, requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made.
   (D)   The minimum concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse or affirm any order, requirement, decision or
determination of any administrative official, or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any manner upon which it is required to pass under this chapter,
or to effect any variation in this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.138 ADMINISTRATIVE COST.
   The ZBA, with the concurrence and approval of the City Council, shall
determine and set forth a fee schedule for the purpose of recovering the
administrative cost of processing requests and the public hearings called for
by this subchapter as well as maintaining the applicable permanent file. Such
fee shall be paid by the applicant and shall not be designed for restricting an
applicant’s ability to seek a hearing and/or to generate revenue for other than
recovery of actual administrative (mailing, postage and the like) and
publication costs incurred by the city.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
AMENDMENTS, SUPPLEMENTS AND CHANGES
§ 156.150 GENERAL.
   The City Council may from time to time amend, supplement or change by
ordinance the boundaries of the districts of the regulations herein
established.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.151 PROCEDURE.
   Before taking action on any proposed rezoning, amendment, supplement or
zoning change:
   (A)   The City Council shall submit the proposed revision to the Planning
and Zoning Commission for its full assessment, recommendations and reports;
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall make a preliminary report,
usually through its planning staff, and then hold public hearings thereon
before submitting its final report(s) to the City Council;
   (C)   Written notices of all public hearings on proposed changes in
classifications shall be sent to the address of record of all owners of
property, or to the person rendering the property for city taxes, affected by
such proposed changes in classification and to the address of record of all
owners of property, or to the person rendering the property for city taxes,
located within 200 feet of a property affected thereby within no less than ten
days before any such hearing is held. Such notice may be served by depositing
the same, properly addressed and postage paid, in the city post office. Where
property lying within 200 feet of the property proposed to be changed is
located in territory which was annexed to the city after the final date of
making renditions which are included on the last approved city tax roll or to
property lying in another city or in Palmview’s ETJ, notice to such others
shall be given by publication in the manner provided in §
156.152 of this chapter; and
   (D)   Pursuant to Tex. Local Government Code § 211.007(c-1), before the
tenth day before the hearing date, written notice of each public hearing before
the Planning and Zoning Commission on a proposed change in zoning
classification affecting residential or multi-family zoning shall be sent to
each school district in which the property for which the change in
classification is proposed is located. The notice may be served by its deposit
in the municipality, properly addressed with postage paid, in the United States
mail.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.152 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   After receipt of the final report from the Planning and Zoning Commission, a
public hearing shall be held by the City Council before adopting any proposed
amendment, supplement or change. Notice of such hearing shall be given by
publication one time in a newspaper of general circulation in the city stating
the time and place of such hearing; which publication shall not be less than 15
calendar days prior to the public hearing date to consider said rezoning
application.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.153 RULINGS.
   In all cases where the City Council deems it feasible and practicable to do
so, public hearings provided for herein to be held before the Planning and
Zoning Commission and the City Council, respectively, may be held jointly; and
said City Council shall not take final action until it has received the final
report of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.154 PROTESTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR DENIAL.
   (A)   In case of a written protest against any change in zoning, signed by
the owners of 20% or more either of the area of the lots or land included in
such proposed change, or of the lots or land immediately adjoining the same and
extending 200 feet therefrom, such amendment shall not become effective, except
by the favorable vote of at least three-fourths of all the members of the City
Council.
   (B)   A vote of at least three-fourths of all the members of the City
Council is also required to overrule a recommendation of the Planning and
Zoning Commission that the proposed amendment, supplement or change be denied.
(Note: a mandatory three-fourths vote by the City Council is required to
overrule a “denial” by the Planning and Zoning Commission; if the three-fourths
vote is not evident, the “denial” shall stand.)
   (C)   At the option of the applicant, his or her request for a change in
zoning shall be heard by the full City Council.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.155 APPEALS FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   Any person or persons who are owners of real property immediately adjoining
the applicants property and extending 200 feet therefrom and/or residing or
owning property from any subdivision notified under the required public hearing
notices, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision of the Planning and
Zoning Commission, may present to the City Council a petition, duly verified,
setting forth that such decision is unjust, in whole or in part, specifying the
grounds of injustice. Such petition shall be presented to the Planning
Department within ten business days after the final decision of the Planning
and Zoning Commission where after the Planning Director shall present the
petition to the City Council at the next most available City Council meeting
for notification and calling of a public hearing to hear and act on the appeal.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.156 ADMINISTRATIVE COST.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission, with the concurrence and approval of the
City Council, shall determine and set forth a fee schedule for the purpose of
recovering the administrative cost of processing zoning requests (rezonings,
CUPs and the like) and the public hearings called for by this subchapter. Such
fee shall be paid by the applicant and shall not be designed for restricting an
applicant’s ability to seek a hearing and/or to generate revenue for other than
recovery of administrative and publication costs incurred by the city. There
shall be no reimbursement, in whole or in part, of any zoning related
processing fee.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.157 APPLICATIONS FOR ZONING CHANGE.
   Applications for a proposed zoning change shall be made by the owner or his
or her authorized agent on forms provided by the city. No rezoning applications
shall be considered on any parcel more than once in any six-month period of
time, unless otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission due to
change of conditions or evidence not originally presented at the initial public
hearing. The cost to request waiver to the six-month waiting period shall be
set forth by the City Council. Furthermore, the city shall have the inherent
right to initiate rezoning to any property when deemed in the best interest of
the city.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who shall violate, participate or acquiesce in the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or who shall fail to comply
with any of the requirements hereof, or who shall erect or alter any building
in violation of any detailed plan, shall for each and every violation or non-
compliance be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than $1, nor more than $1,000. Each day in violation hereof
shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The penalty provided in division (A)(1) above should not be
construed as exclusive and the city hereby provides that any other remedy
available to it in the enforcement of this chapter, in law or in equity,
including, but not limited to, an injunction in a district court or other court
of competent jurisdiction, is not intended to be, and is not, foreclosed by the
provision of such penalty.
   (B)   (1)   Penalty. Any person who violates a provision of §
156.089 of this chapter, in whole or in part, shall be guilty of a separate
offense for each day or portion of a day during which the violation is
committed, continued or permitted, and each offense shall be punishable by a
fine set forth by statutes and/or the Municipal Court Judge.
      (2)   Judicial remedies. In the event of a violation of §
156.089 of this chapter or any of its provisions by any person, corporation,
association or any other type of business entity, its agents, servants or
employees, the city may, in addition to other remedies, institute any
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such violation, including the
right to restrain, enjoin, correct or abate such violation, in any court of
competent jurisdiction in accordance with the laws of the state.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
156.100 through
156.109 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be fined thereafter inclusive of accompanying court costs. Each day that
said violation continues shall be considered as a separate offence to be fined
accordingly as such. Prosecution or conviction under this provision shall never
impede any other remedy or relief for violation of these regulations.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 2016-07B, passed 8-9-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND DISANNEXATIONS
      
II.   STREETS AND HIGHWAYS
      
III.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DISANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
86-5       12-17-1986  Annexing two tracts of land containing 251.97 acres
93-02      10-28-1993  Annexing approximately 403 acres of land
93-03      10-28-1993  Annexing approximately 84 acres of land
98-05      4-21-1998   Disannexing a sparsely populated area
98-06      - -1998     Disannexing a sparsely populated area
2000-02    3-21-2000   Releasing certain tracts of land and accepting certain
                       tracts of land from the City of Mission
                       Annexing Lots 16, 17, 18 and 19 and a triangular-shaped
2002-01    2-19-2002   tract out of Lot 20, all in Block 2, of Mission Groves
                       Estate, containing 48.48 acres
                       Annexing 5.349 acres out of Lot 18 and the east 1.453
2002-02    8-20-2002   acres out of Lot 20 out of Block 4 of the Goodwin Tract
                       Subdivision
2003-01    2-11-2003   Annexing a 2.50-acre tract of land out of Lot 17, Block
                       3, of Goodwin Tract Subdivision No. 1
2003-02    2-11-2003   Annexing 0.669 acre of Lot 80 in Bentsen Groves
                       Subdivision
2004-05    5-25-2004   Annexing the St. Paul Estates Subdivision, 19.86 acres
                       of land
2004-07    6-15-2004   Annexing a 2.81-acre tract of land out of Lot 4, Block
                       3, of Mission Grove Estates
                       Annexing approximately 75.882 acres of Lots 101, 102,
2005-02    6-28-2005   103, 104, 105, 106, 107 and 110 and the south 16.565
                       feet of Lot 105, Block 4-A, in Goodwin Tract
                       Subdivisions No. 1 and No. 2
                       Amendment; annexing approximately 75.322 acres of Lots
2005-07    6-28-2005   101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107 and 110 and the south
                       165.35 feet of Lot 105, Block 4-A, in Goodwin Tract
                       Subdivisions No. 1 and No. 2
2011-02    2-1-2011    Annexing 1.78 acres out of Lots 84 and 86 in the Bentsen
                       Groves Subdivision
2011-03    2-15-2011   Annexing Lot 23 of Goodwin Acres No. 2 Subdivision
2013-06    8-20-2013   Annexing 572.27 acres of land
2014-19    12-16-2014  Annexing 1,658.7 acres of land
17-1010-02 10-10-2017  Adopting an plan to not annex any territory in the
                       future
17-1121-01 11-21-2017  Annexing certain territory
17-1219-02 12-19-2017  Annexing certain territory
2020-06-O  6-16-2020   Annexing 2.80 acres of land out of Lots 8, 9, and 10 in
                       Crane Subdivision.
                      
 
TABLE II: STREETS AND HIGHWAYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Designating Mile 1 within the city as Jose R. Pena
94-06     11-29-1994  Boulevard and one unnamed street in Valle Bella
                      Subdivision as Valle Bella Street
                      Designating U.S. Highway 83 as Palma Vista Drive and
95-01     2-21-1995   Highway U.S. Business Loop (Loop 374) as Winter Texans
                      Loop
2001-01   1-16-2001   Approving the agreement with the state to maintain,
                      control, supervise and regulate certain state highways
2013-01   - -2013     Approving the agreement with the state to maintain,
                      control, supervise and regulate certain state highways
2013-02   1-15-2013   Approving the agreement with the state to maintain,
                      control, supervise and regulate certain state highways
2019-09-O 8-6-2019    Platinum Star Subdivision street name change from Valle
                      Bella St. to Shelby St.
2020-01-O 2-4-2020    Naming the entry street into Palmview Heights Subdivision
                      Maria M. Aguilar Street
                     
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
83-4      4-12-1983   Granting an antenna television system franchise to
                      Mercure Telecommunications, Inc.
85-01     8-12-1985   Suspending the effective date of the intent to increase
                      charges by the Central Power and Light Company
1985-02   - -1985     Granting a closed circuit and antenna television system
                      franchise to Heritage Cablevision of Texas, Inc.
89-2      2-21-1989   Denying an increase in rates to be charged by Central
                      Power and Light Company
90-01     2-12-1990   Establishing minimum rates to be charged for natural gas
                      sold by Rio Grande Valley Gas Company
90-04     6-19-1990   Denying an increase in rates to be charged by Central
                      Power and Light Company
92-01     - -1991     Granting a telecommunications business franchise to
                      Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
1992-02   1-29-1992   Establishing minimum rates to be charged for natural gas
                      sold by Rio Grande Valley Gas Company
94-02     2-15-1994   Granting a natural gas distribution franchise to Southern
                      Union Gas Company
1994-03   3-17-1994   Finding that the rates charged by Central Power and Light
                      Company to be observed and in force
96-01     - -1996     Revising the rates charged by Central Power and Light
                      Company
97-07     - -1997     Extending the telecommunications franchise with
                      Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
97-10     2-17-1998   Accepting an economic development rate filed by Central
                      Power and Light Company
99-01     - -1999     Granting an electric, heat and power franchise to Hino
                      Electric Power Company
99-10     - -1999     Granting a natural gas transmission franchise to PG&E
                      Texas Pipeline, LP
00-01     2-22-2000   Granting a natural gas franchise to PG&E Gas Transmission
                      Teco, Inc., and PG&E Energy Trading-Gas Corporation
2001-06   8-14-2001   Establishing maximum rates to be charged for natural gas
                      by Southern Union Gas Company
2002-05   12-17-2002  Granting an electricity distribution franchise to Central
                      Power and Light Company
2006-01   7-18-2006   Adopting a settlement agreement with Texas Gas Service
                      Company regarding rate increases
2009-05   8-18-2009   Approving and negotiating with Texas Gas Service Company
                      regarding a cost of service adjustment
2011-10   9-20-2011   Approving and negotiating with Texas Gas Service Company
                      regarding a cost of service adjustment
2012-04   7-17-2012   Approving and negotiating with Texas Gas Service Company
                      regarding a cost of service adjustment
2014-14   7-15-2014   Approving and negotiating with Texas Gas Service Company
                      regarding a cost of service adjustment
2018-05-O 3-20-2018   Approving and negotiating with Texas Gas Service Company
                      regarding a cost of service adjustment
2019-07-O 8-6-2019    Approving and negotiating with Texas Gas Service Company
                      regarding a cost of service adjustment
2019-13-O 9-30-2019   Approving trash collection services agreement with Agua
                      SUD
2020-07-O 7-21-2020   Approving and negotiating with Texas Gas Service Company
                      regarding a cost of service adjustment.
2021-11-O 7-27-2021   Approving and negotiating with Texas Gas Service Company
                      regarding a cost of service adjustment.
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Codes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS CODES
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CODE
 
State Cite Code Section
Ch. 25     111.02
Ch. 28     111.02
Ch. 32     111.02
Ch. 69     111.02
Ch. 74     111.02
           
 
CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURES
 
State Cite Code Section
           31.02;
2.12       31.03;
           31.47;
           31.48
27.14      10.99
45.014     10.99
102.0172   34.30
103.0031   34.01
           
 
EDUCATION CODE
 
State Cite Code Section
21.032     131.01
           
 
ELECTION CODE
 
State Cite Code Section
85.001     33.02
           
 
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT RULES CODE
 
State Cite Code Section
Ch. 228    114.15
           
 
GOVERNMENT CODE
 
State Cite Code Section
Ch. 418    31.01;
           32.02
Ch. 433    31.01
Ch. 573    36.02
Ch. 791    31.01
           
 
HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE
State Cite Code Section
State Cite      Code Section
Ch. 341         114.01
Ch. 342         114.01
Ch. 366         155.22
431.001 et seq. Ch. 114
751.001 et seq. 70.03
Ch. 821         90.09
Ch. 822         90.09
Ch. 826         90.09
826.013         90.09
826.015         90.09
826.017         90.09
826.045         90.09
                
 
LOCAL GOVERNMENT CODE
State Cite Code Section
State Cite                             Code Section
Title 7, Subtitle A, Ch. 211, Subch. A 156.001
29.003                                 Ch. 10
Ch. 53                                 Ch. 10
53.006                                 Ch. 10
54.001                                 114.99
Ch. 211                                30.16
211.007(c-1)                           156.151
211.008                                156.135;
                                       156.136
211.009                                156.137
Ch. 212                                155.01
212.001                                153.001
212.0175                               155.08
212.018                                155.08
235.002(b)(2)                          155.25
551.001(3)(B) - (L)                    30.02
                                       
 
OCCUPATIONS CODE
 
State Cite Code Section
Ch. 2308   112.12
2308.251   112.12
2308.452   112.12
           
 
PARKS AND WILDLIFE CODE
 
State Cite     Code Section
31.001 et seq. 92.04
               
 
PENAL CODE
 
State Cite Code Section
22.09      Ch. 114
32.42      Ch. 114
37.10      113.99
39.01      36.04
           
 
PROPERTY CODE
 
State Cite               Code Section
Title 5, Chs. 51 et seq. 150.01
                         
 
TAX CODE
 
State Cite Code Section
321.203(g) 34.17
321.210    34.17
Ch. 351    34.16
           
 
TRANSPORTATION CODE
State Cite Code Section
State Cite          Code Section
Title 1 et seq.     70.01
Ch. 501             92.08
501.001 et seq.     92.02;
                    92.04
521.459             112.26
541.201             70.05;
                    70.10
545.302             70.04;
                    70.40
545.424             70.08
545.425             70.08
Ch. 546             31.09
622.012             70.06
622.014             70.06
681.001 et seq.     70.51
Subch. C, § 683.031112.07
                    
 
UTILITIES CODE
 
State Cite Code Section
11.004     116.02
51.002(11) 116.02
54.203(c)  116.08
54.206     116.05
           
 
WATER CODE
State Cite Code Section
State Cite Code Section
13.002     155.07
16.352     155.08
16.353     155.08
16.3535    155.08
16.354     155.08
16.3545    155.08
16.315     154.01
16.350     155.01
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
83-4       4-12-1983   TSO Table III
85-01      8-12-1985   TSO Table III
1985-02    - -1985     TSO Table III
86-02      8-26-1986   150.02;
                       150.99
                       152.01;
                       152.02;
86-4       12-17-1986  152.15;
                       152.16;
                       152.30—
                       152.42
86-5       12-17-1986  TSO Table I
89-2       2-21-1989   TSO Table III
89-4       - -1989     150.01
90-01      2-12-1990   TSO Table III
90-04      6-19-1990   TSO Table III
90-06      12-5-1990   150.01
90-07      12-5-1990   150.01
90-09      12-5-1990   150.01
90-10      12-5-1990   150.01
90-11      12-5-1990   150.01
91-01      4-16-1991   Ch. 71, Schd. I
92-01      - -1991     TSO Table III
1992-02    1-29-1992   TSO Table III
93-02      10-28-1993  TSO Table I
93-03      10-28-1993  TSO Table I
94-02      2-15-1994   TSO Table III
1994-03    3-17-1994   TSO Table III
94-04      7-19-1994   70.10;
                       70.99
94-05      10-25-1994  30.16
94-06      11-29-1994  TSO Table II
95-01      2-21-1995   TSO Table II
95-02      3-21-1995   Ch. 71, Schd. I
96-01      - -1996     TSO Table III
97-01      - -1996     90.12;
                       90.99
97-07      - -1997     TSO Table III
97-08      6-17-1997   151.01
97-10      2-17-1998   TSO Table III
98-05      4-21-1998   TSO Table I
98-06      - -1998     TSO Table I
98-10      8-22-1998   Ch. 71, Schd. II
99-01      - -1999     TSO Table III
99-05      6-15-1999   116.01—
                       116.17
99-10      - -1999     TSO Table III
99-11      10-19-1999  Ch. 71, Schd. II
00-01      2-22-2000   TSO Table III
2000-02    3-21-2000   TSO Table I
2001-01    1-16-2001   TSO Table II
                       155.01—
                       155.08;
2001-05    - -2001     155.20—
                       155.26;
                       155.40—
                       155.46
2001-06    8-14-2001   TSO Table III
                       155.01—
                       155.08;
2001-07    12-10-2001  155.20—
                       155.26;
                       155.40—
                       155.46
2002-01    2-19-2002   TSO Table I
2002-02    8-20-2002   TSO Table I
2002-05    12-17-2002  TSO Table III
2003-01    2-11-2003   TSO Table I
2003-02    2-11-2003   TSO Table I
2003-04    11-18-2003  34.30
2003-05    11-18-2003  Ch. 71, Schd. II
2004-05    5-25-2004   TSO Table I
2004-07    6-15-2004   TSO Table I
                       151.15—
2005-01    2-15-2005   151.22;
                       151.99
2005-02    6-28-2005   TSO Table I
2005-07    6-28-2005   TSO Table I
2005-04    7-27-2005   Ch. 71, Schd. III
                       32.01—
2005-05    8-16-2005   32.08;
                       32.99
2006-01    7-18-2006   TSO Table III
                       92.01—
2006-02    7-18-2006   92.15;
                       92.99
                       70.01—
                       70.07;
                       70.25—
                       70.29;
2006-03    7-18-2006   70.40—
                       70.44;
                       70.46—
                       70.51;
                       70.99
2007-01    1-29-2007   35.01
2007-03    6-19-2007   34.17
2008-04    6-2-2008    34.01;
                       34.15
                       91.35—
2008-06    7-22-2008   91.46;
                       91.99
                       115.01—
2008-08    7-22-2008   115.10;
                       115.99
2009-03    4-20-2009   70.09;
                       70.99
                       132.01—
2009-04    4-20-2009   132.04;
                       132.99
2009-05    8-18-2009   TSO Table III
                       131.01—
2010-02    2-2-2010    131.05;
                       131.99
2010-03    2-2-2010    111.01—
                       111.06
2011-01    2-1-2011    155.09
2011-02    2-1-2011    TSO Table I
2011-03    2-15-2011   TSO Table I
2011-05    5-17-2011   70.08
2011-06    6-29-2011   31.45—
                       31.49
                       31.01—
2011-07    6-29-2011   31.17;
                       31.99
2011-10    9-20-2011   TSO Table III
2012-04    7-17-2012   TSO Table III
2013-01    - -2013     TSO Table II
2013-02    1-15-2013   TSO Table II
                       91.20—
2013-03    1-15-2013   91.23;
                       91.99
                       90.01—
                       90.11;
                       90.13;
2013-04    2-9-2013    90.25—
                       90.30;
                       90.45—
                       90.52;
                       90.99
2013-06    8-20-2013   TSO Table I
                       112.01—
                       112.11;
2013-11    11-18-2013  112.25—
                       112.29;
                       112.99
2013-12    - -2013     94.01—
                       94.03
2013-14    12-16-2013  150.01
                       117.01—
2014-01    1-21-2014   117.09;
                       117.20—
                       117.33
2014-05    2-13-2014   31.30—
                       31.32
2014-08    3-18-2014   33.01—
                       33.03
2014-10    4-15-2014   10.99
                       113.01;
2014-13    5-22-2014   113.15—
                       113.18;
                       113.99
2014-14    7-15-2014   TSO Table III
                       154.01—
                       154.12;
                       154.25—
2014-15    8-19-2014   154.27;
                       154.40—
                       154.42;
                       154.99
                       91.01—
2014-17    10-27-2014  91.05 ;
                       91.99
2014-19    12-16-2014  TSO Table I
2016-01    3-15-2016   70.45;
                       70.99
2016-04    7-18-2016   30.15
                       156.001—
                       156.008;
                       156.020—
                       156.026;
                       156.040—
                       156.053;
                       156.065—
                       156.072;
2016-07    8-9-2016    156.085—
                       156.089;
                       156.120—
                       156.123;
                       156.135—
                       156.138;
                       156.150—
                       156.157;
                       156.999
                       153.001—
                       153.008;
                       153.020—
                       153.023;
                       153.035—
2016-07A   8-9-2016    153.040;
                       153.055—
                       153.059;
                       153.070—
                       153.075;
                       153.999
                       156.100—
2016-07B   8-9-2016    156.109;
                       156.999
                       114.01;
                       114.02;
2016-06    8-16-2016   114.15—
                       114.21;
                       114.99
2017-01    1-17-2017   90.09
2017-02    2-1-2017    117.04
                       130.01—
2017-04    4-4-2017    130.06;
                       130.99
                       93.01—
2017-05    4-4-2017    93.12;
                       93.99
                       114.15—
2017-09    6-14-2017   114.21;
                       114.99
2017-14    9-15-2017   30.01
17-1010-02 10-10-2017  TSO Table I
17-1121-01 11-21-2017  TSO Table I
17-1212-01 12-12-2017  34.16;
                       34.99
17-1219-02 12-19-2017  TSO Table I
2018-01-O  1-16-2018   91.03;
                       91.06
2018-02-O  2-6-2018    35.01
2018-04-O  3-20-2018   35.01
2018-05-O  3-20-2018   TSO Table III
2018-10-O  9-26-2018   30.17
2018-13-O  9-26-2018   30.18
2018-17-O  11-28-2018  35.01
                       36.01—
                       36.06,
2019-01-O  1-15-2019   36.10—
                       36.13,
                       36.99
2019-06-O  7-9-2019    Adopting Ordinance
2019-07-O  8-6-2019    TSO Table III
2019-08-O  8-6-2019    35.01
2019-09-O  8-6-2019    TSO Table II
2019-11-O  9-17-2019   35.01
2019-13-O  9-30-2019   TSO Table III   
2019-15-O  11-5-2019   30.02
2020-01-O  2-4-2020    TSO Table II
                       50.01,
                       50.02,
                       50.20—
                       50.26,
2020-02-O  2-4-2020    50.35—
                       50.39,
                       50.50,
                       50.60,
                       50.61,
                       50.99
2020-06-O  6-16-2020   TSO Table I
2020-07-O  7-21-2020   TSO Table III
2020-16-O  12-15-2020  Ch. 71, Schd. III
2021-03B-O 4-6-2021    112.12
2021-04-O  4-20-2021   35.01
2021-05    5-4-2021    31.31
                       51.01—
                       51.05,
                       51.20—
                       51.24,
                       51.35,
2021-07-O  6-15-2021   51.36,
                       51.45—
                       51.47,
                       51.55—
                       51.58,
                       51.99
2021-11-O  7-27-2021   TSO Table III
2021-18-O  9-7-2021    33.03
2022-04-O  4-19-2022   150.01
2022-17-O  9-29-2022   33.03
                       72.01—
2023-01-O  3-7-2023    72.05,
                       72.99
2023-11-O  9-26-2023   35.01
                       Charter
                       3.03,
2023-15-O  11-15-2023  3.11,
                       4.01,
                       4.05,
                       5.05
                       153.001—
                       153.008,
                       153.020—
                       153.023,
2023-18-O  12-5-2023   153.035—
                       153.040,
                       153.055—
                       153.059,
                       153.070—
                       153.075, 153.99
2023-20-O  12-5-2023   51.46,
                       51.47
                      
 
