CITY OF PORT ISABEL, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-15 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 704-A, passed 12-19-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
HOME RULE CHARTER
OF THE CITY OF PORT ISABEL, TEXAS
ARTICLE I: ACT OF INCORPORATION, CORPORATE NAME, GENERAL POWERS AND BOUNDARIES
Section
1.01   Incorporation and Name
Section
1.02   General Powers
Section
1.03   Boundaries
Section
1.04   Extension of Boundaries
Section
1.05   Contraction of Boundaries
ARTICLE II: MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT
Section
2.01   Mayor and Commissioners
Section
2.02   Qualifications
Section
2.03   Vacancies of Mayor and Commissioners
Section
2.04   Compensation of Mayor and Commissioners
Section
2.05   Duties and Powers of Mayor
Section
2.06   Duties and Powers of Mayor Pro-Tempore
Section
2.07   Duties and Powers of Commission
Section
2.08   Meetings of the City Commission
Section
2.09   Rules of Procedures and Quorum
Section
2.10   Investigations by City Commission
ARTICLE III: ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
Section
3.01   City Manager
Section
3.02   Department of Police
Section
3.03   City Secretary
Section
3.04   Municipal Court
Section
3.05   City Attorney
Section
3.06   Department of Health and Sanitation
Section
3.07   Urban Development Department
Section
3.08   Fire Marshal
Section
3.09   Other Departments
Section
3.10   Official Bonds for City Employees
ARTICLE IV: NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
Section
4.01   Elections
Section
4.02   Regulation of Elections
Section
4.03   Filing for Office
Section
4.04   The Official Ballot
Section
4.05   Election and Term of Office
Section
4.06   Conducting and Canvassing Elections
Section
4.07   Oath of Office
ARTICLE V: RECALL OF OFFICERS
Section
5.01   Scope of Recall
Section
5.02   Petitions for Recall
Section
5.03   Form of Recall Petition
Section
5.04   Various Papers Constituting Petition
Section
5.05   Presentation of Petition to City Commission
Section
5.06   Public Hearing to be Held
Section
5.07   Election to be Called
Section
5.08   Ballots in Recall Elections
Section
5.09   Result of Recall Elections
Section
5.10   Recall, Restrictions Thereon
Section
5.11   Failure to City Commission to Call an Election
ARTICLE VI: LEGISLATION (ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS)
Section
6.01   Legislative and Business Procedure
Section
6.02   Powers of Ordinance
Section
6.03   Style of Ordinances
Section
6.04   Enactment of Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
Section
6.05   Emergency Ordinances
Section
6.06   Publication of Ordinances
Section
6.07   Recording of Ordinances
Section
6.08   Initiative
Section
6.09   Referendum
Section
6.10   Voluntary Submission of Legislation by the Commission
Section
6.11   Form of Ballots
Section
6.12   Publication of Proposed and Referred Ordinances
Section
6.13   Adoption of Ordinances
Section
6.14   Inconsistent Ordinances
Section
6.15   Ordinances Passed by Popular Vote, Repeal or Amendment
Section
6.16   Codification of Ordinances
ARTICLE VII: MUNICIPAL PLANNING & ZONING
Section
7.01   Platting of Property
Section
7.02   Planning Commission
ARTICLE VIII: MUNICIPAL FINANCE
Section
8.01   General
Section
8.02   City Budget
Section
8.03   Power to Tax
Section
8.04   Taxes: When Due and Payable
Section
8.05   Tax Liens
Section
8.06   Financial Instruments
Section
8.07   Audit and Examination
ARTICLE IX: ACQUISITION AND OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY
Section
9.01   Acquisition of Property
Section
9.02   Property Previously Acquired
Section
9.03   Eminent Domain
ARTICLE X: PERMANENT PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND PARKS
Section
10.01   Waterways, Street, Sidewalk and Alley Improving, and Assessing
Section
10.02   Franchise for Use of Streets
Section
10.03   Parks and Playgrounds
Section
10.04   Sanitary Sewers
ARTICLE XI: PUBLIC UTILITIES
Section
11.01   Municipal Ownership and Operation
Section
11.02   Municipal Ownership and Operation Made Exclusive
Section
11.03   Franchising and Regulating Private Utility Companies
ARTICLE XII: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
12.01   Provisions Relating to Assignment, Execution and Garnishment
Section
12.02   City Not Required to Give Security or Execute Bond
Section
12.03   Special Provisions Concerning Damage Suits
Section
12.04   Building Construction
Section
12.05   Licenses: Business, Occupations, Signs
Section
12.06   Miscellaneous Activities
Section
12.07   Nuisances
Section
12.08   Sanitary Inspection
Section
12.09   Zoning
Section
12.10   Hazardous Areas
5ection
12.11   Shows and Other Public Amusements
Section
12.12   Partial Invalidity
Section
12.13   Effect of This Charter on Existing Law
Section
12.14   Interim Municipal Government
Section
12.15   Applicability of General Laws
Section
12.16   Amending the Charter
Section
12.17   Litigation Pending at Enactment of Charter
Section
12.18   Rearrangement of Articles and Sections
Section
12.19   Submission of Charter to Voters
HOME RULE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF PORT ISABEL, TEXAS
PREAMBLE
We, the citizens of Port Isabel, Texas, in order to establish a home rule
municipal government, provide for the future progress of our City and obtain
more fully the benefits of local self-government, do hereby adopt this Home
Rule Charter in accordance with the statutes of the State of Texas; and do
hereby declare the residents of the City of Port Isabel in Cameron County,
Texas, living within the legally established boundaries of the said City, to be
a political subdivision of the State of Texas incorporated forever under the
name and style of the "City of Port Isabel" with such powers, rights, and
duties thereof.
ARTICLE I: ACT OF INCORPORATION CORPORATE NAME, GENERAL POWERS, AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION 1.01 INCORPORATION AND NAME.
   All of the inhabitants of the City of Port Isabel, in Cameron County, Texas,
within its boundaries as now established or which may hereafter be established,
shall be a body politic incorporated under and be known by the name and style
of the "CITY OF PORT ISABEL".
SECTION 1.02 GENERAL POWERS.
   The City of Port Isabel, made a body politic and corporate by the adoption
of this Charter, shall have perpetual succession, may use a common seal, may
sue and be sued, may contract and be contracted with, implead and be impleaded
in all courts and places and in all matters whatever; may take, hold, and
purchase personal and real property within or without the City limits, as may
be needed for the corporate purposes of said City; moreover, said City may own
or acquire such property within or without its boundaries for any municipal
purpose in fee simple or in any lesser interest or estate, by purchase, gift,
devise, lease or condemnation, and may sell, lease, hold, manage, control and
police any property now owned by it or which it may hereafter acquire, and
shall have the right to lease or let its property whether inside or outside of
the City limits, subject to the limitations herein set out and may construct,
own, lease, operate and regulate public utilities, may assess, levy and collect
taxes for the general and special purpose on all lawful subjects of taxations;
may borrow money on the faith and credit of the City by the issuance and sale
of financial instruments; may appropriate the money of the City for all lawful
purposes; may regulate and control the use, for whatever purpose, of the
streets, waterways, and other public places; may make and enforce all police,
health, sanitary and other regulations; perform and render all public services
and, when deemed expedient, may condemn property within or without the City
limits for corporate use and may hold, manage and control same, and shall enjoy
all the rights, immunities, powers, privileges, and franchises possessed by
said City in its original and previous capacity as a general law municipal
corporation, where not in conflict with the provisions of this Charter; and
shall be subject to all the duties and obligations and shall have the rights,
immunities, powers, privileges and franchises herein conferred and granted, as
specified in the Statutes and Constitution of the State of Texas and the United
States Government, including the application of the City's zoning and
subdivision powers and other powers to its extraterritorial jurisdiction area
as specified by Article 970a of the Texas Civil Statutes, and subsequent
amendments thereto. The enumeration of the particular powers in this Charter
shall not be held or deemed to be exclusive, but, in addition to, the powers
enumerated herein or implied hereby or appropriate to the exercise of such
powers, the City shall have and may exercise all other powers which under the
Constitution and laws of the State of Texas it would be competent for this
Charter specifically to enumerate, including the power and right to exercise
eminent domain, even though not otherwise discussed in this Charter.
SECTION 1.03 BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the City of Port Isabel shall be the same as they have
heretofore been established and as they existed on the date of adoption of this
Charter, and as established by that certain instrument dated March 23, 1928,
filed on record in Volume 226, Page 66, of the Deed Records of Cameron County,
Texas, and as the same may have been amended from time to time, and as further
set out in Volume 7, Page 23, of the Map Records of Cameron County, Texas, and
any additions thereto duly recorded in the Map Records.
SECTION 1.04 EXTENSION OF BOUNDARIES.
   The City Commission shall have the power by Ordinance to fix the boundary
limits of the City of Port Isabel and to provide for the extension of boundary
limits and the annexation of additional territory lying adjacent to said City,
all pursuant to and in conformance with the procedure provided for in Article
970a of the Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, including all subsequent
amendments thereto, and any other applicable State Statutes. Upon additional
territory being so annexed, the inhabitants thereof shall be entitled to all
rights, and privileges of other citizens; and shall be bound by the Acts,
Ordinances, Resolutions and Regulations of the City of Port Isabel.
SECTION 1.05 CONTRACTION OF BOUNDARIES.
   Whenever there exists within the corporate limits of the City of Port Isabel
any territory not suitable or necessary for City purposes, the City Commission
may, in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas, discontinue said
territory as a part of the City by Ordinance; provided, however, any territory
so excluded from the City of Port Isabel shall remain liable for its prorata
share of any debts incurred while said area was a part of the City, in
accordance with law.
ARTICLE II: MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT
SECTION 2.01 MAYOR AND COMMISSIONERS.
   The governing body of the City of Port Isabel shall consist of the City
Commission, which shall be composed of a Mayor, and four Commissioners, one of
whom shall be designated as Commissioner No. l, one as Commissioner No. 2, one
as Commissioner No. 3, and one as Commissioner No. 4.
SECTION 2.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Mayor and each Commissioner shall be citizens of the United States, and
have resided in the State of Texas for a continuous period of two (2) years and
in the City of Port Isabel, Texas, for a continuous period of one year, and
have attained the age of twenty-one (21) years at the time of filing as a
candidate for such position; and shall have the other qualifications as
provided for candidates; in the State Election Code. The Mayor, Commissioners,
and other officers and employees shall not be indebted to the City, save and
except for ad valorem taxes in the current year, and the previous year only,
but with such ad valorem taxes and any other indebtedness owed to the City to
be timely paid (otherwise constituting a disqualifying indebtedness hereunder);
shall not hold any other public office of emolument, except the office of
Notary Public, and shall not be interested in the profits or emoluments or any
contract, job, work or service for the City of Port Isabel, or interested in
the sale or lease to or by the City of any property, real or personal. If the
Mayor or any City Commissioner fails to maintain, the foregoing qualifications,
or shall be absent from three consecutive regularly scheduled meetings, the
City Commission shall at its next regularly scheduled meeting declare a vacancy
to exist and shall fill said vacancy as set forth in Section
2.03 of this Charter. All such qualifications and requirements shall be fully
complied with by any prospective candidate for the position of Mayor or
Commissioner at the time of filing for election. Any officer or employee of the
City who shall cease to possess any of the qualifications herein required shall
forthwith forfeit his or her office and any such contracts in which any officer
or employee is or may become interested may be declared void by the City
Commission. Any violation, of this Section shall be a misdemeanor, and on
conviction for such violation, such office or employment shall be forfeited.
SECTION 2.03 VACANCIES OF MAYOR OR COMMISSIONERS.
   When a vacancy occurs in the City Commission, the remaining members of the
City Commission shall, within ten (10) days, appoint a qualified person to fill
the unexpired term. However, the City Commission shall not appoint more than
one Commissioner in any twelve month period, and in the event that two
vacancies occur within any twelve (12) month period, the City Commission shall
call a special election to fill the second (or more) vacancies so occurring.
SECTION 2.04 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COMMISSIONERS.
   The Mayor shall receive for his services the sum of One Hundred Dollars
($100.00) per month and each of the four City Commissioners shall receive the
sum of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) per month for their services on the City
Commission. The Mayor and Commissioners shall be considered officers of the
City for the purposes of employment, and any compensation payable under this
Charter is subject to compliance with the city’s employee manual. Upon a
majority vote of the City Commission finding that a violation of the employee
manual has occurred, payment shall be forfeited until such time as a majority
of the City Commission finds that the violation has been cured.
(Ord. --, passed --)
SECTION 2.05 DUTIES AND POWERS OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor of the City shall be the presiding officer of the Commission. The
Mayor shall be entitled to vote as a member of the Commission, shall sign all
ordinances, resolutions, and financial statements, and shall be the chief
executive officer of the City and exercise all powers and perform all duties
imposed upon the Mayor by this Charter and by the Ordinances of the City.
SECTION 2.06 DUTIES AND POWERS OF MAYOR PRO-TEMPORE.
   In the absence of the Mayor, a Mayor Pro-tempore shall act in the Mayor's
place and stead. At the next regular meeting of the City Commission after each
election of a Mayor and/or Commissioners, one of such Commissioners shall be
elected Mayor Pro-tempore by a majority vote of the Commissioners. In the
absence of both the Mayor and the Mayor Pro-tempore, a presiding Mayor Pro-
tempore shall be elected by a majority vote of the Commissioners present. In
the absence of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro-tempore shall be charged with the same
duties of the Mayor, shall be entitled to the same rights and privileges of the
Mayor and shall be subject to the same restrictions and limitations of the
Mayor as provided for in this Charter and by the laws of the State of Texas.
SECTION 2.07 DUTIES AND POWERS OF COMMISSION.
   The Commission shall enact all Ordinances and resolutions and adopt all
regulations, and constitute the legislative body of the City. The Commission
and the Mayor shall constitute the governing body of the City with all the
powers and authority herein granted.
SECTION 2.08 MEETINGS OF THE CITY COMMISSION.
   The City Commission shall hold at least two regular meetings in each month
at a time to be set by it as may be necessary for the transaction of the
business of the City. All regular meetings of the City Commission shall be
public and shall be held at the City Hall, except that the City Commission may
designate another place for such meetings after publishing due notice thereof
in one issue of a newspaper in general circulation in the City of Port Isabel,
or upon a motion during a posted regular meeting, may adjourn from the City
Hall to another location. The Mayor or any two members of the City Commission
may call special meetings of the City Commission at any time. All special
meetings shall be public, and shall be posted in conformity with state law.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the City Commission may also
hold executive sessions (which are closed to the public) and workshops as
needed from time to time, so long as the same are held in accordance with the
laws of the State of Texas.
(Ord. --, passed --)
SECTION 2.09 RULES OF PROCEDURES AND QUORUM.
   The City Commission shall determine its own rules of procedure, unless
contrary to this Charter. Three-fifths (3/5ths) of the qualified members of the
City Commission shall constitute a quorum to do business, and the majority vote
of those present shall be necessary to adopt any Ordinance or Resolution.
Minutes of the proceedings of all meetings of the City Commission shall be
kept, and any citizen may have access at all reasonable times to said records.
SECTION 2.10 INVESTIGATION BY CITY COMMISSION.
   The City Commission may investigate the financial transaction of any office
or department of the City government, and the acts and conduct of any official
or employee. In conducting such investigation, the Commission may compel the
attendance of witnesses, administer oaths and compel the production of books,
papers, and other evidence, and for that purpose may issue subpoenas or
attachments which shall be signed by the Mayor; which may be served and
executed by any officer authorized by law To serve subpoenas or other process,
or any peace officer of the City. If any witness shall refuse to appear or to
testify to any facts within his knowledge, or to produce any papers or books in
his possession, or under his control, relating to the matter under
investigation before the Commission, such act shall constitute a misdemeanor
and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $200.00. No witness shall be
excluded from testifying, touching his knowledge of the matter under
investigation in any such inquiry. But such testimony shall not be used against
him in any criminal prosecution except for perjury committed upon such inquiry.
ARTICLE III: ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
SECTION 3.01 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Appointment and Qualifications:
      The City Commission shall appoint a City Manager who shall be the chief
administrative and executive officer of the City and shall be responsible to
the City Commission for the administration of all the affairs of the City. The
City Manager shall be chosen by the City Commission solely on the basis of the
City Manager’s executive and administrative training, experience and ability.
Provided, however, after appointment, the City Manager shall have a period of
ninety (90) days in which to relocate and become a permanent resident of
Cameron County. No member of the City Commission shall, during the time for
which such member is elected and for one year thereafter, be appointed City
Manager; except in the absence of the City Manager, the Mayor shall perform the
duties of the City Manager on a temporary basis, until such time as the City
Commission can meet and select a replacement in accordance with Paragraph
3.01 (B) herein.
   (B)   Term and Salary:
      The City Manager shall not be appointed for a definite term but may be
removed at the will and pleasure of the City Commission by a vote of the
majority of the entire Commission. The action of the City Commission in
suspending or removing the City Manager shall be final, it being the intention
of this Charter to vest all authority and fix all responsibility of such
suspension or removal in the City Commission. In case of the absence or
disability of the City Manager, the City Commission may designate some
qualified person to perform the duties of the office during such absence or
disability. The City Manager shall receive compensation as may be fixed by the
Commission.
   (C)   Duties of the City Manager:
      (1)   Appoint, and when necessary for the welfare of the City, remove any
employee of the City, except as otherwise provided by this Charter.
      (2)   Prepare the budget annually, submit it to the City Commission, and
be responsible for its administration after adoption.
      (3)   Prepare and submit to the City Commission as of the end of the
fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of
the City for the preceding year.
      (4)   Keep the City Commission advised of the financial condition and
future needs of the City and make such recommendations as may seem desirable.
      (5)   Perform such duties, as may be prescribed by this Charter or may be
required of the City Manager by the City Commission, not inconsistent with this
Charter.
SECTION 3.02 DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
   There shall be established and maintained a Department of Police to preserve
order within the City and to secure the residents of said City from violence
and the property therein from injury and loss. The Chief of Police shall be
appointed by the City Manager with the approval or the City Commission, for an
indefinite term, as provided by law. The Chief of Police shall be the chief
administrative officer of the Department of Police. The Chief of Police shall,
with the approval of the City Manager, appoint and remove the employees of said
Department and shall perform such duties as may be required of the Chief of
Police by the City Manager. The Chief of Police shall be responsible to the
City Manager for the administration of the Department of Police and the
carrying out of the directives of the City Commission. The Chief of Police may
be removed from office by the City Manager with the approval of the City
Commission.
SECTION 3.03 CITY SECRETARY.
   The City Manager shall appoint the City Secretary with the approval of the
City Commission and such assistant City Secretaries as the City Commission
shall deem advisable. The City Secretary, or an Assistant City Secretary, shall
give notice of Commission meetings, shall keep the minutes of the proceedings
of such meetings, shall authenticate them by the Secretary's signature and
record in full in a book kept and indexed for the purpose, all ordinances and
resolutions, and shall perform such other duties as the City Manager shall
assign to the City Secretary and those elsewhere provided for in this Charter.
Moreover, until such time as the City Commission shall designate a "City
Treasurer", the City Secretary shall also function in such capacity.
SECTION 3.04 MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   There shall be established and maintained a court designated as a
"Municipal Court", for the trial for misdemeanor offenses, with all such powers
and duties as are now or may hereafter be prescribed by the laws of the State
of Texas relating to Municipal Courts.
   (B)   The Judge of such Court shall be appointed by the City Manager with
the approval of the City Commission for an indefinite term and may be removed
from office by the City Manager with the approval of the City Commission. The
Municipal Judge shall receive such salary as may be fixed from time to time by
the City Commission.
   (C)   The City Secretary or an Assistant City Secretary shall be ex officio
clerk of said Court.
   (D)   The Clerk of said Court and his deputy shall have the power to
administer oaths and affidavits, make certificates, affix the seal of said
Court thereto, and generally do and perform any and all acts usual and
necessary by the Clerk of Courts in issuing process of said Courts and
conducting the business thereof.
   (E)   In case of the absence of the Judge of the Municipal Court, the Mayor
shall act as Judge of said Court.
SECTION 3.05 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Commission shall appoint a competent and duly licensed attorney who
shall be the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation
as may be fixed by the City Commission and shall hold office at the pleasure of
the City Commission. The City Attorney, or such other attorney selected by the
City Attorney with the approval of the City Commission, shall represent the
City in all cases pending or hereafter brought in any Court wherein the City is
a party. In addition, the City Attorney shall represent the City in any pending
litigation or threats against the City. The City Attorney shall attend all
meetings of the City Commission and give advice and counsel when called upon to
do so. The City Attorney shall render opinions and legal advice upon all
questions concerning the City or its government when requested by the City
Manager, the Mayor, or any Commissioner, and when required by the Mayor, City
Manager or any Commissioner, the City Attorney shall aid in preparing all
ordinance, resolutions, regulations, charters, and amendments of charters, and
shall render such other legal services as the City Commission may require. In
addition, the City Attorney shall serve as legal advisor of and attorney for
the City and all offices and departments thereof.
SECTION 3.06 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND SANITATION.
   (A)   Appointment and Qualifications:
      The City Manager shall appoint a City Health Officer who shall be a
licensed, physician qualified to practice medicine in the State of Texas and a
resident of the City of Port Isabel. In the event no licensed physician is
available or willing to serve in such capacity, the City Manager shall arrange
for the services of an employee of a public health agency or such other
qualified persons available with training in related fields.
   (B)   Administration:
      The City Health Officer shall be responsible to the City Manager for the
general administration of the Department of Health and Sanitation.
   (C)   Duties of the Health Officer:
      The City Health Officer shall advise with the City Commission on a
program of Public Health; shall cooperate in the preparation and enforcement of
a Sanitary Code; shall enforce such code and all pertinent ordinances of the
City; shall cooperate with nearby cities on problems of health and sanitation;
shall cooperate with the Commissioners' Court of Cameron County and its
agencies, and with the State Health Department and other departments of the
state government in matters pertaining to health and sanitation.
SECTION 3.07 URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be established and maintained an Urban Development Department to
assist the Planning and Zoning Commission in the creation of a master plan for
the City of Port Isabel, as well as to administer the current building
ordinances of the City and perform such functions as are from time to time
designated by the City Manager. The Building Inspector shall serve as the chief
administrative officer of this Department, and as such, shall be appointed or
terminated by the City Manager, with the approval of the City Commission. The
duties set out in this Charter relating to zoning regulations, construction and
building permits, and ordinances relating to planning and use of property
within the City of Port Isabel shall be administered through this Department.
SECTION 3.08 FIRE MARSHAL.
   The City Manager shall appoint a Fire Marshal whose duties shall be as
assigned from time to time by said City Manager, or prescribed by the
ordinances, rules and regulations of the City of Port Isabel as adopted by the
City Commission. Until such time as a Fire Marshal is appointed, however, the
City Manager may designate and assign the Fire Marshal's duties to some other
designated official.
SECTION 3.09 OTHER DEPARTMENTS.
   The City Commission may add, abolish or consolidate such offices and
departments as it may deem to be in the best interests of the City, and may
divide the administration of any such departments as it may deem advisable; may
create new departments, and may discontinue any offices or departments at its
discretion, except those specifically established by this Charter.
SECTION 3.10 OFFICIAL BONDS FOR CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The City Manager, the City Secretary and such other City officers and
employees as the City Commission may require, shall, before entering upon the
duties of their offices, enter into a good and sufficient fidelity bond in a
sum to be determined by the City Commission, payable to the City of Port Isabel
and conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of such persons and
upon the faithful accounting for all monies, credits, and things of value
coming into the hands of such persons, and the bonds shall be signed by a
company authorized to do business under the laws of the State of Texas, and the
premium on such bonds shall be paid by the City of Port Isabel and such bonds
must be in form acceptable to the City Commission.
ARTICLE IV: NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
SECTION 4.01 ELECTIONS.
   The regular City Election shall be held annually on the second Saturday in
April at which time a Mayor and/or Commissioners will be elected to fill those
offices which become vacant that year. The City Commission may, by resolution,
order a special election, fix the time and place for holding same and provide
all means for holding such special election. Notice of the Election shall be
published once a week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper published in the
City of Port Isabel, the first of such publications to be not less than thirty
eight (38) days before the Election.
(Ord.--, passed --)
SECTION 4.02 REGULATION OF ELECTIONS.
   The City Commission shall make all regulations which it considers needful or
desirable, not inconsistent with this Charter or the laws of the State of
Texas, for the conduct of municipal elections, for the prevention of fraud in
such elections and for the recount of ballots in case of doubt or fraud.
Municipal elections shall be conducted by the appointed election authorities
who shall also have power to make regulations not inconsistent with this
Charter or with any regulations made by the Commission or the laws of the State
of Texas.
SECTION 4.03 FILING FOR OFFICE.
   Any person having the qualifications set forth for Commissioner under
Section
2.02 of this Charter shall have the right to file an application to have his
name placed on the official ballot as a candidate for any elective office, and
such application in writing signed by such candidate and accompanied by his
loyalty affidavit as prescribed by Texas Election Code, § 141.031, filed with
the City Secretary Mayor not less than thirty days (in computing said 30 days,
the date of filing and the date of the election shall not be counted) in the
manner and before the date and time provided by the Texas Election Code prior
to the date of election, shall entitle such applicant to a place on the
official ballot.
(Ord. --, passed --)
SECTION 4.04 THE OFFICIAL BALLOT.
   The names of all candidates for office, except such as may have withdrawn,
died or become ineligible, shall be printed on the official ballots without
party designations in the order determined in a drawing of lots conducted by
the City Commission. All official ballots shall be printed at least twenty days
prior to the date of any general or special election, and absentee voting shall
be governed by the general election laws of the State of Texas.
SECTION 4.05 ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor and Commissioners Nos. 1 and 2 shall be elected in even numbered
years, the Commissioners Nos. 3 and 4 shall be elected in odd numbered years,
each for a term of three years, or until such Mayor’s or Commissioner’s
successor is elected and qualified, unless sooner removed from office as
hereinafter provided. The Mayor and City Commissioners shall be elected by a
majority vote.
(Ord. --, passed --)
SECTION 4.06 CONDUCTING AND CANVASSING ELECTIONS.
   The election judges and other necessary election officials for conducting
all such elections shall be appointed by the City Commission. The election
judges shall conduct the elections, determine, record and report the results as
provided by the general election laws of Texas. As provided by the Texas
Election Code, the City Commission shall meet, open the returns, canvass and
officially declare the result of the election as to candidates and questions
and issue certificates of election to candidates elected as hereinbefore
provided. The Mayor and/or Commissioners declared elected shall qualify and
assume the duties of their offices at this meeting.
(Ord. --, passed --)
SECTION 4.07 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every officer of the City shall, before entering upon the duties of such
office, take and subscribe to the oath or affirmation prescribed by the Texas
Secretary of State, which shall be filed and kept in the office of the City
Secretary.
(Ord. --, passed --)
ARTICLE V: RECALL OF OFFICERS
SECTION 5.01 SCOPE OF RECALL.
   Any elected City Official, whether elected to office by the qualified voters
of the City or appointed by the City Commission to fill a vacancy, shall be
subject to recall and removal from office by the qualified voters of the City
on grounds of incompetency, misconduct or malfeasance in office.
SECTION 5.02 PETITIONS FOR RECALL.
   Before the question of recall of such officer shall be submitted to the
qualified voters of the City, a petition demanding such question to be so
submitted shall first be filed with the City Secretary; which petition shall be
signed by qualified voters of the City equal in number to at least 20% of the
number of votes cast at the last regular municipal election of the City, but in
no event less than 150 such petitioners. Each signer of such recall petition
shall personally sign his or her name thereto in ink or indelible pencil, and
shall write after his or her name his or her place of residence, giving name of
street and number, and shall also write thereon the day, the month and year his
or her signature was affixed.
SECTION 5.03 FORM OF RECALL PETITION.
   The recall petition mentioned above must be addressed to the City Commission
of the City of Port Isabel, must distinctly and specifically point out the
ground or grounds upon which such petition for removal is predicated, and, if
there be more than one ground, shall specifically state each ground with such
certainty as to give the officer sought to be removed, notice of the matters
and things with which he/she is charged. The signature shall be verified by
oath in the following form:
   "THE STATE OF TEXAS)
   COUNTY OF CAMERON)
   I,                                               , being first duly sworn,
on oath depose and say that I am one of the signers of the above petition; and
that the statements made therein are true, and that each signature appearing
thereto was made in my presence on the day and date it purports to have been
made, and I solemnly swear that the same is the genuine signature of the person
whose name it purports to be.
                        Sworn and subscribed to before me this day of
__________, 20  
                        Notary Public in and for the State or Texas."
SECTION 5.04 VARIOUS PAPERS CONSTITUTING PETITION.
   The petition may consist of one or more copies, or subscription lists,
circulated separately, and the signatures thereto may be upon the paper or
papers containing the form of petition, or upon other papers attached thereto.
Verifications provided for in the next preceding section of this Article may be
made by one or more petitioners, and the several parts of copies of the
petition may be filed separately and by different persons; but no signatures to
such petition shall remain effective or be counted which were placed thereon
more than forty-five days prior to the filing of such petition or petitions
with the person performing the duties of City Secretary. All papers comprising
a recall petition shall be filed with the person performing the duties of City
Secretary on the same day, and the said Secretary shall immediately notify, in
writing, the officer so sought to be removed, by mailing such notice to such
officer's Port Isabel address. The City Secretary shall examine the same and
certify that the signatures are true and correct and that the petition meets
the requirements of this Charter.
SECTION 5.05 PRESENTATION OF PETITION TO CITY COMMISSION.
   At the next regular meeting of the City Commission after the date of the
filing of the papers constituting the recall petition, the City Secretary shall
present such petition to the City Commission of the City of Port Isabel.
SECTION 5.06 PUBLIC HEARING TO BE HELD.
   The officer whose removal is sought may, within five days after such recall
petition has been presented to the City Commission, request that a public
hearing be held to permit such officer to present facts pertinent to the
charges specified in the recall petition. In this event, the City Commission
shall order such public hearing to be held, not less than five days nor more
than fifteen days from the date of receiving such request for a public hearing.
SECTION 5.07 ELECTION TO BE CALLED.
   If the officer whose removal is sought does not resign within five days
after the certification to the Commission that the petition is proper, then it
shall be the duty of the City Commission to order an election and fix a date
for holding such recall election, the date of which election shall be set in
accordance with the provisions of the Texas Election Code, but not more than 78
days from the date such petition was certified to the City Commission by the
City Secretary, or from the date of the public hearing if one was held,
whichever date is later.
(Ord. --, passed --)
SECTION 5.08 BALLOTS IN RECALL ELECTIONS.
   Ballots used in recall election shall conform to the following requirements:
   (A)   With respect to each person whose removal is sought, the question
shall be submitted:
      "Shall (name of commissioner or mayor) be removed from the office of city
commissioner (or mayor) by recall?"
   (B)   Immediately below each such question there shall be printed the two
following propositions, one above the other, in the order indicated:
      "FOR the recall of (name of commissioner or mayor)."
      "AGAINST the recall of (name of commissioner or mayor)."
SECTION 5.09 RESULT OF RECALL ELECTION.
   The results of the recall election shall be canvassed by the City Commission
in accordance with the provisions of the Texas Election Code. If a majority of
the votes cast at a recall election shall be against removal of the
Commissioner or Mayor named on the ballot, such Commissioner or Mayor shall
continue in office for the remainder of such Commissioner’s or Mayor’s
unexpired term, subject to recall, as hereinafter provided. If a majority of
the votes cast at such election be for the removal of the Commissioner or Mayor
named on the ballot, the Commission shall immediately order an election to be
held for the purpose of filing the vacancy. Such an election shall be ordered
consistent with the provisions of the Texas Election Code, provided, however,
that it shall not be held later than the 78th day after the results of the
recall election are canvassed.
(Ord. --, passed --)
SECTION 5.10 RECALL, RESTRICTIONS THEREON.
   No recall petition shall be filed against any officer of the City of Port
Isabel within 3 months after his election, nor within 1 year after an election
for such officer's recall if the basis of the recall be the same charge or
offense as previously submitted to the voters of the City of Port Isabel.
SECTION 5.11 FAILURE OF CITY COMMISSION TO CALL AN ELECTION.
   In case all of the requirements of this Charter shall have been met and the
City Commission shall fail or refuse to receive the recall petition, or order
such recall election, or discharge any other duties imposed upon said City
Commission by the provisions of this Charter with reference to such recall,
then the County Judge of Cameron County, Texas, shall discharge any of such
duties herein provided to be discharged by the person performing the duties of
City Secretary or by the City Commission.
ARTICLE VI: LEGISLATION (ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS)
SECTION 6.01 LEGISLATIVE AND BUSINESS PROCEDURE.
   Two Commissioners and a presiding Mayor or Mayor Pro-tempore shall
constitute a quorum to do business. The Commission shall conduct its business
by adoption or rejection of ordinances, resolutions or motions.
SECTION 6.02 POWERS OF ORDINANCE.
   The City of Port Isabel shall have the power to enact and enforce all
ordinances necessary to protect health, life and property, and to prevent and
summarily abate and remove all nuisances, and to preserve and enforce good
government, order and security of the City and its inhabitants, and to enact
and enforce ordinances on any and all subjects, provided that no ordinance
shall be enacted inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter or the
general laws or Constitution of the State of Texas.
SECTION 6.03 STYLE OF ORDINANCES.
   The style of all ordinances of the City of Port Isabel shall be "BE IT
ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF PORT ISABEL" but the same may be omitted when published
in book or pamphlet form by the City of Port Isabel.
SECTION 6.04 ENACTMENT OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Each proposed ordinance or resolution shall be in written or printed form
when presented to the Commission. Each Ordinance shall have a caption summarily
and generally stating the provisions thereof. For adoption, Ordinances shall be
read in full at their first presentation unless waived by a favorable 3/5ths
vote of the City Commission, in which event the ordinance may be adopted by a
reading of the caption only (unless required to be read in full by state or
federal statutes). Resolutions shall be read in full to be adopted, unless such
reading is waived by a favorable three-fifths (3/5ths) vote of the City
Commission, in which event Resolutions may be adopted upon oral abbreviated
description. To be adopted, an Ordinance must be presented and approved at two
separate Commission meetings. To approve any Ordinance or adopt any Resolution
shall require a majority vote by the City Commission at a meeting duly called
at which a quorum is present to transact business. Motions may be adopted by
simple majority at a duly called City Commission meeting at which a quorum is
present to transact business.
SECTION 6.05 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   An emergency measure is an Ordinance for the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health or safety and providing for the usual daily
operation of a municipal department. Ordinances appropriating money, not
exceeding $500.00 and Ordinances for the payments of salaries and wages may be
passed as emergency measures, but no measure making a grant, renewal, or
extension of a franchise, or other special privileges or regulating the rate to
be charged for its service by any public utility shall ever be passed as an
emergency measure.
SECTION 6.06 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The City Secretary shall give notice of the passage of every Ordinance
imposing a penalty, fine, imprisoning or forfeiture for the violation of the
provisions thereof, by causing the caption or title of any such Ordinance to be
published in a newspaper in circulation in the City of Port Isabel, at least
once within ten days after the passage of said Ordinance, and shall note on
every such Ordinance, the caption of which is hereby required to be published
and on the record thereof, the fact that the same has been published as
required by the Charter, and the date of such publication, which shall be prima
facie evidence of such publication; provided, that the provisions of this
section shall not apply to revision and codification of the Ordinances of the
City, as the Commission may from time to time adopt.
SECTION 6.07 RECORDING OF ORDINANCES.
   Every Ordinance or resolution, upon its becoming effective, shall be
recorded in a book kept for that purpose and shall be authenticated by the
signature of the Mayor and the City Secretary.
SECTION 6.08 INITIATIVE.
   Section 6.08 shall be repealed in its entirety as of November 11, 2017.
(Ord. --, passed --)
SECTION 6.09 REFERENDUM.
   Qualified voters of the City of Port Isabel may require that any Ordinance
or Resolution, with the exception of Ordinances or Resolutions levying taxes,
passed by the City Commission be submitted to the voters of the City for
approval or disapproval, by submitting a petition for this purpose within 30
days after final passage of said Ordinance or Resolution, or within 30 days
after its publication. Said petition shall be addressed, prepared, signed and
verified as required for petitions initiating legislation as provided in
Section
6.02 of this Charter and shall be submitted to the City Secretary. Immediately
upon the filing of such petition, the City Secretary shall present said
petition to the City Commission. Thereupon the City Commission shall
immediately reconsider such Ordinance or Resolution, and if it does not
entirely repeal the same, shall submit it to popular vote as provided in
Section
6.02 of this Charter. Pending the holding of such election, such Ordinance or
Resolution shall be suspended from taking effect and shall not later take
effect unless a majority of the qualified voters voting thereon at such
election shall vote in favor thereof. Provided further, however, (i) no
petition pertaining to any Ordinance or Resolution or the subject matter or any
such Ordinance or Resolution shall be submitted, or if submitted, acted upon by
the City Commission within twelve months from the date of any election
therefore held concerning such Ordinance or Resolution or the subject, matter
thereof; and (ii) no initiative petition shall be concerned with appropriating
money or authorizing the levy of taxes or any other subject prohibited by the
laws of the State of Texas or this Charter.
SECTION 6.10 VOLUNTARY SUBMISSION OF LEGISLATION BY THE COMMISSION.
   The City Commission, upon its own motion and by a majority vote of its
member, may submit to popular vote at any election for adoption or rejection
any proposed Ordinance or Resolution or measure, or may submit for repeal any
existing Ordinance, Resolution or measure, in the same manner and with the same
force and effect as provided in this Article for submission on petition, and
may in its discretion call a special election for this purpose.
SECTION 6.11 FORM OF BALLOTS.
   Where an initiated Ordinance or an alternative Ordinance proposed by the
Commission is submitted, the ballot shall state the caption of each Ordinance,
clearly designating them "Ordinance No. 1" and "Ordinance No. 2", respectively,
and shall set forth below the captions on separate lines the words, "For
Ordinance No. 1", "For Ordinance No. 2" and "Against Ordinance No. 1" and
"Against Ordinance No. 2". Where voting is only on the initialed or referred
Ordinance, the ballot shall contain the caption of the Ordinance and below the
caption shall set forth on separate lines the words "For the Ordinance" or
"Against the Ordinance", and if the same be a Resolution, the ballot shall
contain the words "For the Resolution" and "Against the Resolution".
SECTION 6.12 PUBLICATION OF PROPOSED AND REFERRED ORDINANCES.
   The City Secretary shall publish at least once in any newspaper in general
circulation within the City of Port Isabel the proposed or referred Ordinance
or Resolution not less than 15 days prior to the date of the election, and
shall give such other notices and perform such other functions as are required
by state law, or by the Ordinance or Resolution calling said election.
SECTION 6.13 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES.
   If a majority of the qualified voters voting on any proposed Ordinance or
Resolution or measure shall vote in favor thereof, it shall thereupon, or at
any time fixed therein, become effective as a law or as a mandatory order to
the City Commission.
SECTION 6.14 INCONSISTENT ORDINANCES.
   If the provisions of two or more proposed Ordinances or Resolutions approved
at the same election are inconsistent, the Ordinance or Resolution receiving
the highest number of votes shall prevail.
SECTION 6.15 ORDINANCES PASSED BY POPULAR VOTE, REPEAL OR AMENDMENT.
   No Ordinance or Resolution which may have been passed by the City Commission
upon a petition or adopted by popular vote under the provisions of this Article
shall be repealed or amended except by the City Commission in response to a
referendum petition or by submission as provided in Section
6.08 of this Charter.
SECTION 6.16 CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The Commission shall have all general Ordinances of the City compiled and
printed in code form; the Commission is empowered to thereafter recodify said
general Ordinances as may be deemed necessary, from time to time. For the
purpose of this Section, general Ordinances shall be deemed to be those
Ordinances of a permanent or continuing nature which affect the residents of
the City at Large. Every general Ordinance enacted subsequent to the original
codification provided for above, shall be enacted as an amendment to the Code.
When adopted by the Commission, the printed codes of general Ordinances
contemplated by this Section shall be in full force and effect without the
necessity for such codes or any part thereof being published in any newspapers.
An Ordinance of the City of Port Isabel may be proved prima facie by a printed
code of ordinances purporting to be printed by authority of the City, or by
copy of the Ordinance certified by the City Secretary to be a true copy, of the
same or by the City Secretary's official record thereof.
ARTICLE VII: MUNICIPAL PLANNING & ZONING
SECTION 7.01 PLATTING OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Hereafter, every owner of any tract of land situated within the
corporate limits of the City of Port Isabel who may divide the same in two or
more parts for the purpose of laying out any subdivision or any addition to the
City, shall comply with the provisions of Article 974a of the Revised Civil
Statutes of the State of Texas of 1925, as now or hereafter amended, as well as
all other relevant statutes of the State of Texas, and said statutes as now or
hereafter amended are hereby adopted and incorporated herein for all purposes.
   (B)   The provisions of Section
7.01 (A) above shall apply similarly to the owner of any tract of land situated
within a maximum distance of five miles beyond the corporate limits of the City
of Port Isabel.
SECTION 7.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The City Commission shall have the authority to appoint a City Planning
Commission in accordance with the general laws of the State of Texas as
provided for in Article 1011a through 1911j of the Revised Civil Statutes of
the State of Texas of 1925, as now or hereafter amended.
ARTICLE VIII: MUNICIPAL FINANCE
SECTION 8.01 GENERAL.
   The City Commission shall have the power to control and manage the finances
of the City; to provide its fiscal year and fiscal arrangements; and to adopt a
budget.
SECTION 8.02 CITY BUDGET.
   At such time as the City Manager has prepared a City budget in accordance
with the procedures established by the City Commission, the City Commission
shall hold a public hearing prior to adopting each annual budget and advertise
the same in a newspaper circulated in the City of Port Isabel at least five
days prior to said hearing. Said budget shall not be adopted except with the
vote of at least 3/5ths of the City Commission.
SECTION 8.03 POWER TO TAX.
   The City Commission shall have the power under the provisions of state law
to levy, assess and collect an annual tax upon real and personal property
within the City to the maximum provided by the Constitution and general laws of
the State of Texas. In addition, the City shall have the power to levy a tax on
the following: (i) occupation taxes as such occupations are capable of being
taxed consistent with the general laws of the State of Texas; (ii) franchise
taxes against any public corporation using and occupying the public streets or
grounds of the City separately from the tangible property of such corporation;
and (iii) occupancy taxes on hotel or motel rooms (to be comprehensively
defined by city ordinance) such tax not to exceed the maximum percentage
allowed by state law of the consideration paid by the occupant or occupants of
each such room. In collecting its taxes, the City Commission shall have the
power to join with any other taxing entity to do so including the Cameron
County Appraisal District, the school district, or any other entity allowed by
law.
SECTION 8.04 TAXES: WHEN DUE AND PAYABLE.
   All taxes due the City of Port Isabel shall be due on the first day or
January of the year following their assessment; but may be paid at any time
before the first day of February of the year following assessment without
penalty and interest, as the City Commission may provide by ordinance. By
ordinance, the City Commission may provide discounts for early payment of
taxes, subject to the laws of the State of Texas.
SECTION 8.05 TAX LIENS.
   The tax levied by the City is hereby declared to be a lien, charge or
encumbrance upon the property as of the first day of January upon which the tax
is due, which lien, charge or encumbrance the City is entitled, to enforce and
foreclose in any court having jurisdiction over the same, and the lien, charge
or encumbrance on the property is such as to give the state courts jurisdiction
to enforce and foreclose said lien on the property on which the tax is due, not
only as against any resident of this state or person whose residence is
unknown, but also as against nonresidents. All taxes upon real estate shall
expressly be a lien and a charge upon the property which the taxes are due,
which lien may be foreclosed in any court having jurisdiction. Such lien shall
be prior to all other claims or liens, except as provided by state or federal
law, and no gift, sale, assignment, or transfer of any kind, or judicial writ
of any kind, can ever defeat such lien, except as provided by state or federal
law. Said City shall have full power to provide for the prompt collection, by
suit or otherwise, of taxes assessed, levied and imposed and is hereby
authorized, and to that end shall have full power and authority to sell, or
cause to be sold, all kinds of property, real and personal, and shall make such
rules and regulations and enact all such taxes whether same be upon personal or
real property or any taxes provided in this Charter. No irregularities in the
time or manner of making or returning the City Assessment Rolls or the approval
of such rolls shall invalidate any assessment.
SECTION 8.06 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS.
   The City Commission shall have the authority to issue financial instruments
For such purposes as are specifically authorized by statute, including, but not
limited to street improvements, construction of sewers, utilities, and other
public works as the City Commission may from time to time deem expedient. The
City Commission shall have the right and power to borrow money upon the credit
of the City by the issuance of financial instruments provided the same complies
with the laws of the State of Texas concerning the same.
SECTION 8.07 AUDIT AND EXAMINATION.
   All accounts and fiscal records of the City of Port Isabel shall be audited
on a perpetual basis by a continuous, independent audit, the independent
auditor for such purposes, who shall be a Certified Public Accountant, to be
designated and employed by the Commission from time to time. The Commission may
require a full audit report of the fiscal affairs of the City of Port Isabel as
often as it sees fit, provided that it shall have one such full audit report at
least once each year; and such audit shall be available in full to the public.
ARTICLE IX: ACQUISITION AND OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY
SECTION 9.01 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
   The City of Port Isabel shall have the power and authority to acquire by
purchase, gift, devise, condemnation or otherwise any character of property
including any charitable or trust fund.
SECTION 9.02 PROPERTY PREVIOUSLY ACQUIRED.
   All real estate owned in fee simple title or held by lease, sufferance,
easement or otherwise; all public buildings, fire stations, parks, waterways,
public squares, streets, alleys and all property of whatever kind, character or
description, whether real or personal, which has been granted, donated,
purchased or otherwise acquired by the City of Port Isabel, through any means
or agency, and all causes of action, rights and privileges of every kind and
character, and all property of whatsoever character and description which may
have been or is now held, controlled or used by the said City of Port Isabel
for public ways or in trust for the public shall vest in and remain in and
inure to the said corporation of the City of Port Isabel by the legal adoption
of this Charter.
SECTION 9.03 EMINENT DOMAIN.
   The City Commission shall have the right of eminent domain and the power to
appropriate private property for public purposes in accordance with the laws of
the State of Texas.
ARTICLE X: PERMANENT PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND PARKS
SECTION 10.01 WATERWAYS, STREET, SIDEWALK AND ALLEY IMPROVING, AND ASSESSING.
   The City Commission shall have dominion, control, and jurisdiction in, upon
and over and under its public streets, waterways, squares, avenues, alleys and
highways and to provide for the improvement thereof, by paving, razing,
grading, widening, narrowing or straightening, and by construction of
sidewalks, curbs, culverts, or otherwise. By ordinance, the City shall have the
right to place a lien against the property of the adjoining land owner for any
such improvements, the cost of which shall be assessed against said land owner,
as well as the reasonable cost of collection, including attorney's fees and
court costs, if incurred. The lien of the assessments herein described shall
relate back and take effect as to all subsequent purchasers and creditors from
the date of the ordinance or resolution ordering the improvement.
SECTION 10.02 FRANCHISE FOR USE OF STREETS.
   The City shall have the power and authority to grant franchise for the use,
or occupancy of streets, avenues, alleys and any and all public grounds
belonging to or under the control of the City. No telegraph, telephone,
electric light or power, street railway, gas company, waterworks, water
systems, or any other character of public utility shall be granted any
franchise or permitted the use of any street, avenue, alley, highway or grounds
of the City without first making application to and obtaining the consent of
the governing authorities thereto, expressed by ordinance, and upon such
compensation as may be prescribed, and upon such conditions as may be provided
for by such ordinance, and before such ordinance proposing to making any grant
for franchise or privilege to any applicant to use or occupy any street,
avenue, alley or any other public ground belonging to or under control of the
City, shall become effective, publication of said ordinance, as finally
proposed to be passed, shall be made in some newspaper published in the City of
Port Isabel, once a week for three (3) consecutive weeks, which publication
shall be made at the expense of the applicant desiring said grant, and said
proposed ordinance shall not be thereafter changed again republished as in the
first instance, nor shall any such ordinance take effect or become a law or
vest any rights in the applicant therefor, until after the expiration of thirty
(30) days from the last publication of said ordinance as aforesaid.
SECTION 10.03 PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS.
   The City shall have exclusive control over all city parks and playgrounds
and to control, regulate and remove all obstructions and prevent encroachments
thereupon; and to provide for raising, grading, filling, terracing, landscape
gardening, erecting buildings providing amusements therein, for establishing
walks and paving driveways around, in and through said parks, playgrounds and
other public grounds.
SECTION 10.04 SANITARY SEWERS.
   The City Hall have exclusive control to provide for a sanitary sewer system
and for the maintenance thereof; to require property owners to make connections
to such sewers with their premises and to provide for fixing a lien against any
property owner's premises who fails or refuses to make sanitary sewer
connections and to charge the cost against the said owner and make a personal
liability, and to fix penalties for failure to make sanitary sewer connections.
ARTICLE XI: PUBLIC UTILITIES
SECTION 11.01 MUNICIPAL OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION.
   The City shall have the power to buy, own or construct, and to maintain and
operate, within or without the City limits, transportation systems, sanitation
systems, and any public service utility systems, and to demand and receive
compensation for services Furnished by the City for private purposes or
otherwise, and to have the original jurisdiction to regulate by ordinance the
collection or compensation for services rendered by all of such municipality-
owned and operated public utility services save and except telephone systems
(the collection and compensation for same to be regulated by the State). That
said City shall have the power to acquire by lease, purchase, or condemnation,
the property of any person, firm, or corporation now or hereafter conducting
any such business, for the purpose of operating such public utility or
utilities for the purpose of distributing such service throughout the City or
any portion thereof.
SECTION 11.02 MUNICIPAL OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION MADE EXCLUSIVE.
   In the event the City shall acquire by purchase, gift, devise, deed,
condemnation or otherwise, any waterworks system, electric light or power
system, gas system, street railway system, or any other public service utility
to operate and maintain for the purpose of serving the inhabitants of said
City, the right to operate and maintain such public service utility, so
acquired, shall be exclusive.
SECTION 11.03 FRANCHISING AND REGULATING PRIVATE UTILITY COMPANIES.
   The City shall have the original jurisdiction to determine, fix, and
regulate the charges, fares, and rates of any person, firm or corporation
exercising, or that may hereafter exercise any right of franchise and/or public
privilege (save and except for any such entity furnishing telephone or other
telecommunications services) in said City, and to prescribe the kind of service
to be furnished, the equipment to be used and manner in which services shall be
rendered and to change such regulations from time to time; that in order to
ascertain all of the facts necessary for a proper understanding of what is or
should be reasonable rate of regulation, the governing authority shall have
full power to inspect the books and other records of such persons, firm or
corporation and compel the attendance of witnesses for such purposes; provided
that in adopting such regulations and in fixing or charging such compensation,
no stock or bond authorized or issued by any person, firm or corporation
exercising such franchise or privilege shall be considered unless proof be made
that the same have been, actually issued by such person; firm or corporation
for money, or its equivalent, paid and used for the development of the property
under investigation. The City may delegate its rate-making authority in all
franchised public utilities within the City to the Public Utilities Commission
of Texas as prescribed by State statute.
ARTICLE XII: GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 12.01 PROVISIONS RELATING TO ASSIGNMENT, EXECUTION AND GARNISHMENT.
   The property, real and personal, belonging to the City shall not be liable
to be sold or appropriated under any writ or execution or cost bill. The funds
belonging to the City, in the hands of any person, firm or corporation, shall
not be liable to garnishment, attachment, or sequestration; nor shall the City
be liable to garnishment on account of any debt it may owe or funds or property
it may have on hand or owing to any person. Neither the City nor any of its
officers or agents shall be required to answer any such writ of garnishment on
any account whatever. The City shall not be obligated to recognize any
assignment of wages or funds by its employees, agents or contractors.
SECTION 12.02 CITY NOT REQUIRED TO GIVE SECURITY OR EXECUTE BOND.
   It shall not be necessary in any action, suit or proceeding in which the
City of Port Isabel is a party, for any bond, undertaking, or security to be
demanded or executed by or on behalf of said City in any of the State Courts,
but in all such actions, suits, appeals, or proceedings same shall be conducted
in the same manner as if such bond, undertaking or security had been given as
required by law.
SECTION 12.03 SPECIAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING DAMAGE SUITS.
   Before the City shall be liable to damage claim or suit for personal injury,
or damage to property, the person who is injured or whose property is damaged
or someone in such persons's behalf shall give the City Manager or City
Secretary, notice in writing after the occurrence of the alleged injury, or
damage, stating specifically in such notice when, where and how the injury or
damage was sustained, and setting forth the extent of the injury or damage as
accurately as possible. No action at law for damages shall be brought against
the City for personal injury or damage to property prior to the expiration of
thirty days after the notice hereinbefore described has been filed with the
City Manager or City Secretary. In case of injuries resulting in death, before
the City shall be liable in damages therefor the person or persons claiming
such damages shall after the death of the injured person give notice as above
required in case of personal injury. Provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be construed to mean that the City of Port Isabel waives any
rights, privileges, defenses or immunities in tort actions which are provided
under the common law, the Constitution and general laws of the State of Texas.
SECTION 12.04 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall have the power to provide for the issuance of permits for
erecting all buildings; as well as the power to enact and enforce all
ordinances and resolutions necessary to regulate the construction of all
buildings located within the City of Port Isabel.
SECTION 12.05 LICENSES: BUSINESS, OCCUPATIONS, SIGNS.
   Said city shall have the power to license any lawful business occupation or
calling that is susceptible to the control of the police power, and to license,
regulate, control or prohibit the erection of signs or billboards.
SECTION 12.06 MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES.
   Said City shall have the power to prohibit and restrain the flying of kites,
firing of firearms, firecrackers, ringing of bells and blowing of whistles, and
the use of bicycles, and skates, or the use and practice of any amusement on
the streets or sidewalks to the annoyance of pedestrians or persons using such
streets or sidewalks, or waterways.
SECTION 12.07 NUISANCES.
   Said City shall have the power to define all nuisances, prohibit the same
within the City and outside the city limits for a distance of five thousand
(5,000) feet; to police all parks, grounds, speedways, streets, waterways,
avenues, and alleys owned by said City, within or without the city limits; to
prohibit the pollution of all sources of water supply of said City, and to
provide for the protection of watersheds.
SECTION 12.08 SANITARY INSPECTION.
   Said City shall have the power to provide for the inspection and regulation
of the sanitary conditions of all premises and vacant lots within the city
limits; for the removal of garbage, sewage, refuse and unsanitary vegetation;
to provide for establishing a lien against the property for any expense
incurred by the City enforcing this provision and further to provide for the
making and enforcing of all proper and reasonable regulations, for the health
and sanitation of said City and its inhabitants.
SECTION 12.09 ZONING.
   Said City shall have the power to divide the City into zones for the
regulation of buildings therein and in each zone to establish building lines
and to regulate the location, height, dimensions and material of all buildings
to be erected therein, with full power to make different regulations and
building lines in different zones and thereafter to alter the same.
SECTION 12.10 HAZARDOUS AREAS.
   The City shall have the power to require all structures built in a hazardous
area as defined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency to meet the
requirements of said Federal Emergency Management Agency regarding height and
other regulations issued, and as the same may be amended.
SECTION 12.11 SHOWS AND OTHER PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS.
   The City shall have the power to license and regulate the location and
control the conduct or to suppress and prevent all theatres and theatrical
performances, moving picture shows, circuses, carnivals, the exhibitions of
common showman, shows of any kind and the exhibition of any natural or
artificial curiosities, caravans, menageries, trained animal shows, musical
exhibitions and performances, variety shows, public balls and ballets, pool and
billiard parlors, and other places of public amusement whenever the
preservation of the public order, tranquility or safety, or the protection of
the public morals may require.
SECTION 12.12 PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   If any section or part of section of this Charter shall be held invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect the remainder of
this Charter nor the context in which such section or part of section so held
invalid may appear, except to the extent that an entire section or part of
section may be inseparably connected in meaning and effect with the section or
part of section which such holding shall directly apply.
SECTION 12.13 EFFECT OF THIS CHARTER ON EXISTING LAW.
   All ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations now in force under the
City Government of Port Isabel and not in conflict with the provisions of this
Charter, shall remain in force under this Charter until altered, amended or
repealed by the Commission after this Charter takes effect; and all rights of
the City of Port Isabel under existing franchises and contracts are preserved
in full force and effect to the City of Port Isabel.
SECTION 12.14 INTERIM MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT.
   From and after the date of the adoption of this Charter, the persons then
filling elective offices which are retained under this Charter will continue to
fill those offices for the terms to which they were elected. The two
Commissioners presently filling elective offices shall be designated as
Commissioner No. 1 and Commissioner No. 2. The Mayor and such Commissioners
then in office shall, within twenty (20) days after the date of the adoption of
this Charter by majority vote, appoint two Commissioners, possessing the
qualifications prescribed by this Charter to be designated by such Commission,
as Commissioner No. 3 and Commission No. 4, respectively, who shall hold such
offices until the first regular City election after the adoption of this
Charter. At such first regular election two Commissioners, Nos. 3 and 4,
respectively, shall be elected and shall serve for a term of one year.
Thereafter, the City Commission shall be elected as provided in Section
4.05 of this Charter. Persons, who on the date this Charter is adopted are
filling appointive positions with the City of Port Isabel which are retained
under this Charter, may continue to fill these positions for the term for which
they were appointed.
SECTION 12.15 APPLICABILITY OF GENERAL LAWS.
   The Constitution of the State of Texas, the statutes of said State
applicable to Home-Ruled Municipal Corporations, as now or hereafter enacted,
this Charter and ordinances enacted pursuant hereto shall, in the order
mentioned, be applicable to the City of Port Isabel, but the City shall have
the power to exercise any and all powers conferred by the laws of the State of
Texas upon any other kind of city, town or village, not contrary to the
provisions of said Home-Rule statutes, charter or ordinances but the exercise
of any such powers by the City of Port Isabel shall be optional with it, and it
shall not be required to conform to the law governing any other cities, towns
or villages unless and until by ordinance it adopts same.
SECTION 12.16 AMENDING THE CHARTER.
   Amendments to this Charter may be framed and submitted to the voters of the
City in the manner provided by Chapter 13 of Title 28 of the Revised Civil
Statutes of Texas, 1925, as now or hereafter amended.
SECTION 12.17 LITIGATION PENDING AT ENACTMENT OF CHARTER.
   All suits and pending actions to which the City heretofore was or now is a
party, plaintiff or defendant, or intervener, shall in no wise be affected or
terminated by the provisions of this Charter or by the legal adoption of the
same, bul shall continue unabated.
SECTION 12.18 REARRANGEMENT OF ARTICLES AND SECTIONS.
   The City Commission shall have the power, by ordinance, to renumber and
rearrange all Articles, sections, and paragraphs of this Charter or any
amendments thereto as it shall deem appropriate; provided that such renumbering
and rearranging shall be in such manner as to in no way affect the intent or
meaning of any of the provisions of this Charter; and upon the passage of any
such ordinance, a copy thereof, certified by the City Secretary shall be
forwarded to the Secretary of State of the State of Texas for filing.
SECTION 12.19 SUBMISSION OF CHARTER TO VOTERS.
   The Charter Commission directs that the Charter be voted upon as a whole and
that it shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the City of Port Isabel
at an election to be held for that purpose on Saturday, January 21, 1984.
   Not less than thirty days prior to such election, the City Commission shall
cause the City Secretary to mail a copy of this Charter to each qualified voter
of the City of Port Isabel as appears from the latest Voter Registration List.
If a majority of the qualified voters voting in such election shall vote in
favor of the adoption of this Charter, it shall become the Charter of the City
of Port Isabel, and after the returns have been canvassed, the same shall be
declared adopted and the City Secretary shall file an official copy of the
Charter with the records of the City. The Secretary shall furnish the Mayor a
copy of said Charter, which copy of the Charter so adopted, authenticated and
certified by his signature and the seal of the City, shall be forwarded by the
Mayor to the Secretary of State of the State of Texas and shall show the
approval of such Charter by majority vote of the qualified voters voting at
such election.
Dear Mr. Mayor:
   We submit herewith the original copy of a Home Rule Charter for the City of
Port Isabel as drafted by the Home Rule Charter Commission duly elected.
   The Home Rule Charter Committee in compliance with the applicable law of the
State of Texas, has designated January 21, 1984, as the date on which this Home
Rule Charter is to be submitted to the qualified voters for adoption or
rejection, said date being between 40 and 90 days after the date on which the
Home Rule Charter Commission completed work on the Charter.
   Your attention is called to Article 1167, V.A.C.S., which directs that not
less than 30 days prior to the date designated for submission of the Charter
for adoption or rejection, the City Secretary shall mail a copy of the Charter
to each qualified voter of the City of Port Isabel.
   This Home Rule Charter creates a City-Manager form of government with a
Commission composed of a Mayor and four (4) Commissioners. It retains all the
powers now exercisable by the City under the Constitution and the Statutes of
the State of Texas, adds thereto certain powers not heretofore granted to the
City, and in general clarifies the means by which powers of the City are
exercised.
   We recommend this Charter to the citizens of Port Isabel and recommend its
adoption. It is our belief that it will permit our City Government to operate
more effectively and satisfactory to the best interests of all citizens.
   Our appreciation is extended to you and other members of the City
Commission, as well as to State Officials and the League of Texas
Municipalities in Austin, Texas, who have assisted us in the work of drafting
this Charter.
   We ask that a copy of this letter of transmittal be sent with a copy of the
proposed Charter when it is mailed to all voters.
                         Respectfully submitted,
HOME RULE CHARTER COMMISSION
                         By:
WILLIAM SUHR, Chairman
We, the undersigned members of the Port Isabel Charter Commission heretofore
duly appointed to prepare a Charter for the City of Port Isabel, Texas, do
hereby certify that this publication constitutes a true copy of the proposed
Charter for the City of Port Isabel, Texas as unanimously adopted by the
members thereof.
                                                 
   WILLIAM SUHR, CHAIRMAN
                                                             
   LEO F. SANDERS, VICE-CHAIRMAN
                                                   
   LINDA SAGNES, SECRETARY
 
                                                                            
Guillermo Torres                                                             Bennie Ochoa, III
                                                                             
E. W. Cateora                                                                Tom Urie, Jr.
                                                                             
Phyllis F. Peterson                                                          Roland H. Harmon
                                                                             
Stella M. Perez                                                              Robert N. Strong
                                                                             
Charles (Chuck) Fellers                                                      James D. Haley
                                                                                                                   
                                                                             Joan A. Gonzalez
                                                                                                                   
                                                                             Cathy Camacho
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering or tampering with code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Charter-reference:
   Adoption of Ordinances, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.13
   Codification of Ordinances, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.16
   Emergency Ordinances, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.05
   Enactment of Ordinances and Resolutions, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.04
   Form of Ballots, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.11
   Inconsistent Ordinances, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.14
   Initiative, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.08
   Legislative and Business Procedure, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.01
   Ordinances Passed by Popular Vote, Repeal or Amendment, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.15
   Powers of Ordinance, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.02
   Publication of Ordinances, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.06
   Publication of Proposed and Referred Ordinances, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.12
   Recording of Ordinances, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.07
   Referendum, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.09
   Style of Ordinances, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.03
   Voluntary Submission of Legislation by the Commission, see Charter,
Article VI, §
6.10
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Port Isabel, Texas,
shall be designated as the Code of Port Isabel and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Loc. Gov't Code,
Chapter 53
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Port Isabel,
Texas.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Cameron County, Texas.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Texas.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or", if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including but not limited to the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the municipality
or any evidence of the municipality's indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for municipal officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to municipal
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing or otherwise relating to rates
to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating or otherwise relating
to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All such ordinances mentioned in division (A) are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, § 54.001) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, §§ 552.001 et
seq.
§ 10.19 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code or any such ordinance shall be punished by:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $2,000 in all cases arising under municipal
ordinances that govern fire safety, zoning and public health and sanitation;
      (2)   A fine not to exceed $2,000, if a motor vehicle is used in illegal
dumping or an offense under the law or city ordinance violated by the illegal
dumping; or
      (3)   A fine not to exceed $500 in all other cases; provided, however,
that no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same
or a similar offense under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. In the event that any such violation is
designated as a nuisance under the provisions of this code, the nuisance may be
summarily abated by the City Manager or the Chief of Police or their assigns.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal penalties, see Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, § 54.001
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   CITY COMMISSION AND OFFICIALS
         
32.   CITY BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
         
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
         
35.   MUNICIPAL COURT
         
36.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
37.   PERSONNEL AND RETIREMENT POLICIES
         
38.   CITY POLICIES
         
39.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Elections
   
30.01   Elections generally
   
30.02   Application generally
   
30.03   Sworn application
   
30.04   Posted by City Secretary
   
30.05   Official ballot
   
30.06   Absentee ballot
   
30.07   Conduct of election
   
30.08   Time and place of election
   
30.09   Election proclamation posted
   
30.10   Notification; office
Charter reference:
   Conducting and Canvassing Elections, see Charter,
Article IV, §
4.06
   Election and Term of Office, see Charter,
Article IV, §
4.05
   Elections, see Charter,
Article IV, §
4.01
   Filing for Office, see Charter,
Article IV, §
4.03
   Oath of Office, see Charter,
Article IV, §
4.07
   Regulation of Elections, see Charter,
Article IV, §
4.02
   The Official Ballot, see Charter,
Article IV, §
4.04
ELECTIONS
§ 30.01 ELECTIONS GENERALLY.
   All elections pertaining to municipal affairs shall be governed by the
election laws of the state. In all city elections, the Mayor, City Secretary
(or Clerk) or the governing body shall do and perform each act in other
elections required to be done and performed respectively by the County Judge,
the County Clerk or the Commissioner's Court. In all city elections, the Mayor,
or if he or she fails to do so, the governing body, shall order the election.
In general elections for officers, the notice or proclamation shall be issued
and posted at the polling place not less than 30 days before the second
Saturday in May of the year in which the election is to be held.
(Ord. 116, passed 2-4-1950)
§ 30.02 APPLICATION GENERALLY.
   Any eligible and qualified person may have his or her name printed upon the
official ballot as an independent candidate for the office of Mayor or
Commissioner or other city office by filing his or her sworn application with
the Mayor at least 30 days prior to the election day. The application shall
state the specific office or place being sought by the applicant and that the
applicant is eligible and qualified under the laws of the state to become a
candidate for and hold the office being sought, if elected.
(Ord. 116, passed 2-4-1950)
§ 30.03 SWORN APPLICATION.
   (A)   The form of the sworn application shall be substantially as follows:
      To the Mayor of the City of Port Isabel, Texas, Greetings:
      I,                           , hereby make application to have my name
printed on the official ballot as an independent candidate for the office of
                                                to be voted upon at the city
election to be held on                                       , 20  ; and I
hereby certify that I am qualified to make this application and I am legally
qualified to hold the office, if elected.
      State of Texas)
      County of Cameron)
                                , being duly sworn, depose and says that the
statements contained in the foregoing application are true.
                        
(Signed)                                                                
      Subscribed and sworn to before me the         day of
                     , 20  .
      
(Seal)                                                                                                  
                        Notary Public in and for Cameron County, Texas
   (B)   The sworn application may be accompanied with a petition signed by
qualified electors, although the petition is not required.
   (C)   The sworn application shall be accompanied with an executed copy of
the "Loyalty Affidavit" as required by Vernon's Texas Statutes, Article 2978a,
in substantially the following form:
      I,                           , of the City of Port Isabel Texas, County
of Cameron, State of Texas, being a candidate for the office of
                                               , do solemnly swear that I
believe in and approve of our present representative form of government, and if
elected, I will support and defend our present representative form of
government and will resist any effort or movement from any source which seeks
to subvert or destroy the same or any part thereof, and I will support and
defend the Constitution and Laws of the United States and of the State of
Texas.
                                                                                                   
                        (Candidate's Signature)
      Subscribed and sworn to before me the         day of
                     , 20  .
      
(Seal)                                                                                              
                        Notary Public in and for Cameron County, Texas
(Ord. 116, passed 2-4-1950)
§ 30.04 POSTED BY CITY SECRETARY.
   The names of all those who have filed their sworn application to have their
names printed on the official ballot as candidates shall be posted by the City
Secretary in a conspicuous place at his or her office for the inspection of the
public for at least ten days before he or she orders the ballots to be printed.
All objections to the regularity or validity of the application of any person
shall be made within five days after the posting, by written notice filed with
the City Secretary, setting forth the grounds of objections. In case no
objection is filed within the time prescribed, the regularity or validity of
application of no person whose name is so posted, shall be thereafter
contested. The City Secretary shall preserve in his or her office for a period
of two years all applications, notice of objections and other related papers.
(Ord. 116, passed 2-4-1950)
§ 30.05 OFFICIAL BALLOT.
   Any person qualified to the office of Mayor, Commissioner or other office
who has filed his or her sworn application in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter shall have his or her name printed on the official ballots. Any
person may cause his or her name to be withdrawn at any time before the
official ballots are actually printed, by filing in writing with the City
Secretary a request to that effect over his or her own signature, duly attested
to be a Notary Public. No name so withdrawn shall be printed on the ballots.
Not later than 20 days before the city general election the City Secretary
shall have the official ballots printed.
(Ord. 116, passed 2-4-1950)
§ 30.06 ABSENTEE BALLOT.
   Each qualified voter who desires to cast an absentee vote and who expects to
be absent on the day of the city general election shall be entitled to an
official ballot and the right to cast the ballot in accordance with the
provisions of Vernon's Texas Statutes, Article 2956.
(Ord. 116, passed 2-4-1950)
§ 30.07 CONDUCT OF ELECTION.
   All municipal elections shall be conducted by one presiding officer or judge
and two assistant judges to be appointed by the Mayor. The presiding officer
shall be compensated for his or her services at the rate of $6 per day and the
assistant judges shall be compensated at the rate of $5 per day, which services
shall be paid from the general fund of the city. (If additional voting places
or help are used, this section should so specify.)
(Ord. 116, passed 2-4-1950)
§ 30.08 TIME AND PLACE OF ELECTION.
   All elections for the selection of officials shall be held at the City Hall
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 116, passed 2-4-1950)
§ 30.09 ELECTION PROCLAMATION POSTED.
   The City Secretary or the City Marshal or Chief of Police or a deputy
sheriff of the county shall post a properly executed copy of the election
proclamation and notice at the place(s) where the election is to be held. The
notice shall be posted 30 days before the date of the election.
(Ord. 116, passed 2-4-1950)
§ 30.10 NOTIFICATION; OFFICE.
   It shall be the duty of the City Secretary to notify all persons elected and
all newly elected officers may enter upon their duties on the fifth day
thereafter, Sundays excepted. If any officer fails to qualify within 30 days
after his or her election, his or her office shall be deemed vacant, and a new
election held to fill the same.
(Ord. 116, passed 2-4-1950)
CHAPTER 31: CITY COMMISSION AND OFFICIALS
Section
City Commission
   
31.01   City Commission meetings
City Secretary
   
31.15   City Secretary; duties
Charter reference:
   City Secretary, see Charter,
Article III, §
3.03
   Compensation of Mayor and Commissioners, see Charter,
Article II, §
2.04
   Duties and Powers of Commission, see Charter,
Article II, §
2.07
   Duties and Powers of Mayor Pro-Tempore, see Charter,
Article II, §
2.06
   Duties and Powers of Mayor, see Charter,
Article II, §
2.05
   Investigations by City Commission, see Charter,
Article II, §
2.10
   Mayor and Commissioners, see Charter,
Article II, §
2.01
   Meetings of the City Commission, see Charter,
Article II, §
2.08
   Qualifications, see Charter,
Article II, §
2.02
   Rules of Procedures and Quorum, see Charter,
Article II, §
2.09
   Vacancies of Mayor and Commissioners, see Charter,
Article II, §
2.03
CITY COMMISSION
§ 31.01 CITY COMMISSION MEETINGS.
   The City Commission meetings shall hereafter be held on the second and
fourth Tuesday of each and every month at 7:00 p.m. in the City Hall.
(Ord. 431, passed 7-9-1984)
CITY SECRETARY
§ 31.15 CITY SECRETARY; DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Secretary of the city to maintain minutes
of any regular or special Commission meeting by recording, as a minimum:
      (1)   State the subject of each deliberation; and
      (2)   Indicate each vote, order, decision or other action.
   (B)   The Secretary of the city shall also cause to be recorded in its
entirety, by mechanical device, the minutes of any regular or special
Commission meeting.
   (C)   For the purposes of any request under the Open Records Act, being
Texas Gov't Code Chapter 552, the minutes recorded by the Secretary will be
furnished unless the requester specifies that the mechanically recorded version
is required. Prior to the release of any recorded version of the minutes, the
requester shall pay the cost of copies and or tapes.
(Ord. 577, passed 11-12-1996)
CHAPTER 32: CITY BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Composition
   
32.002   Term
   
32.003   Vacancies
   
32.004   Mayor's and Commissioners' duty
Planning and Zoning Board
   
32.015   Creation
   
32.016   Composition; appointment
   
32.017   Term; removal; compensation
   
32.018   Officers; meetings
   
32.019   Functions and duties
   
32.020   Surveys and studies
   
32.021   Master Plan
   
32.022   Connection to public utility
   
32.023   Recommendation for appointment of employees
   
32.024   Annual report
   
32.025   Extended to cover extraterritorial limits
Parks and Recreation Board
   
32.040   Title
   
32.041   Definitions
   
32.042   Composition
   
32.043   Powers and duties
   
32.044   Procedures
Economic Development Corporation
   
32.055   Creation
   
32.056   Sales and use tax
Community Development Council
   
32.070   Creation
   
32.071   Composition
   
32.072   Powers
Charter reference:
   Planning Commission, see Charter,
Article VII, §
7.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 COMPOSITION.
   All city boards, commissions and committees, including the Park Board, the
Library Board and any other boards, commissions or committees now existing or
coming into existence in the future with the specific exclusion of the Planning
and Zoning Board, City Tourist Development Council and the Housing Authority,
shall be composed of five members in number with one each recommended by each
Commissioner and Mayor, with the approval of the City Commission. Board,
commission and committee members shall be identified by City Commission
position, and in the event of vacancies, the original recommending Commissioner
or Mayor shall recommend the filling of the vacancy, with the approval of the
City Commission.
(Ord. 450, passed 7-23-1985; Ord. 450A, passed 10-27-1987)
§ 32.002 TERM.
   The terms of these board, commission and committee members shall coincide
with the terms of the corresponding Commissioners or Mayor recommending such,
which will provide for a staggering of new board, commission and committee
members.
(Ord. 450, passed 7-23-1985)
§ 32.003 VACANCIES.
   No persons presently serving on the boards, commissions or committees shall
be specifically removed but normal attrition (for failure to attend meetings or
resignation) shall eventually reduce boards, commissions and committees now
larger in number than five to that figure. The City Manager shall then identify
board, commission and committee appointments by lot identifying them to the
various Commission positions and the Mayor. As vacancies occur in those
positions so identified, the responsible Commissioner or Mayor shall fill them
by recommendation, with the approval of the City Commission.
(Ord. 450, passed 7-23-1985)
§ 32.004 MAYOR'S AND COMMISSIONERS' DUTY.
   The incidental result of this type of selection will be to make
Commissioners and the Mayor more conscientious in the selection of their
recommendations,
(Ord. 450, passed 7-23-1985)
PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
§ 32.015 CREATION.
   That there shall be and is hereby created a City Planning and Zoning
Commission for and in the city.
(Ord. 141, passed 1-4-1954)
§ 32.016 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The City Planning and Zoning Board shall comprise seven members, all
of whom shall be residents of the city. The members shall be appointed by the
City Commissioner as provided in §
32.016. The members shall be selected for their outstanding and unselfish
interest in civic affairs.
   (B)   Two members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall serve three
years and two for two years and three for one year; and the term of office of
each being determined by lot at the first meeting. Vacancies shall be filled by
appointment by the City Commission for the unexpired term. Where the unexpired
term is less than one year, the selected member shall be allowed a full year.
   (C)   A member may be removed at any time by a majority vote of the City
Commission. A member shall serve without pay.
(Ord. 141, passed 1-4-1954; Ord. 141A, passed 1-15-1957; Ord. 141B, passed 4-9-
1973; Ord. 141C, passed 4-28-1981; Ord. 501, passed 11-24-1987; Ord. 141E,
passed 7-9-1996)
§ 32.017 TERM; REMOVAL; COMPENSATION.
   The Mayor and each Commissioner shall each recommend one Board member, which
recommendations shall be approved by the City Commission. Each of these five
Planning and Zoning Board members shall be identified by City Commissioner
position, and each Board member's turn shall coincide, subject to removal
pursuant to the applicable rules and regulations, with the terms of the Mayor
or Commissioner who recommends the Board member. If a Board member resigns or
is otherwise removed before the end of the term of the Mayor or Commissioner
who recommended that member, the Mayor or Commissioner who recommended that
member shall recommend a replacement. The other two members of the Planning and
Zoning Board shall be chosen at large by a majority vote of the City
Commission. These two at large members shall serve two-year terms on a
staggered basis. In order to obtain staggered terms, the Commission in voting
on the first two at large members shall choose one of the members for a one-
year term only and the other member for a two-year term. After the initial two
at large members are chosen, all additional at large members shall be chosen
for a two-year term. If an at large member resigns or is otherwise removed
prior to the conclusion of that member's term, the City Commission shall select
a new at large member by majority vote of the City Commission, which new at
large member will serve out the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 501, passed 11-24-1987)
§ 32.018 OFFICERS; MEETINGS.
   The City Planning and Zoning Commission shall elect a Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson and the other officers as may be deemed necessary for a period of
one year. It shall adopt rules for the practical and efficient transaction of
business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and
determinations, which record shall be a public record. At least one meeting per
month shall be held and additional meetings may be held from time to time upon
call of the Chairperson. Should a member of the Commission fail to attend three
consecutive regular monthly meetings of the Commission, the member shall be
automatically dropped from the Commission and a vacancy thereon declared.
(Ord. 141, passed 1-4-1954)
§ 32.019 FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   The function and duty of the City Planning and Zoning Commission shall be to
make, or cause to be made, and adopt a Master Plan for the physical development
of the city, including any area outside of its boundaries which may relate to
the comprehensive planning of the city. The plans, with the accompanying maps,
plats, charts and descriptive matter, shall show the City Planning and Zoning
Commission's recommendations for the development of the territory, including
among other things, the general location, character and extent of streets,
alleys, ways, viaducts, bridges, railroads, terminals, parks, parkways,
playgrounds, aviation fields, athletic fields, school grounds, fire station
sites or any other public grounds or public improvements, and the removal,
relocation, widening or extension of public work then existing. As the work of
making the whole Master Plan progresses, the City Planning and Zoning
Commission may from time to time adopt and publish a part or parts thereof. The
City Planning and Zoning Commission may from time to time, amend, extend or add
to the plan.
(Ord. 141, passed 1-4-1954)
§ 32.020 SURVEYS AND STUDIES.
   In the preparation of the Plan, the City Planning and Zoning Commission
shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of present conditions
and future growth of the city, and with due regard to its relations to
neighboring territory. The Plan shall be made with the general purpose of
guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of
the city and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future
needs, best promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and
general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of
development; including, among other things, adequate provision for traffic, the
promotion of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for light
and air, the promotion of the healthful and convenient distribution of
population, the promotion of good civic design and arrangement, wise and
efficient expenditures of public funds, and the adequate provision of public
utilities and other public requirements.
(Ord. 141, passed 1-4-1954)
§ 32.021 MASTER PLAN.
   Whenever the City Commission shall have adopted a Master Plan recommended by
the City Planning and Zoning Commission, no public buildings, streets, alleys,
ways, viaducts, bridges, railroads, terminals, parks, parkways, playgrounds,
aviation fields, athletic fields, school grounds, fire station sites or any
other public grounds or public improvements, or parts thereof, shall be
constructed until and unless the location shall be recommended by the City
Planning and Zoning Commission, and approved by the City Commission; provided,
however, that in case of its disapproval, the City Planning and Zoning
Commission shall communicate its reason for disapproval to the City Commission
and thereupon, by majority vote of the City Commission, it shall have the power
of overruling the disapproval. The widening, narrowing, ornamentation,
vacancies or change in the use of streets and other public ways, public grounds
or other public improvements appearing on the adopted plan shall be subject to
similar recommendations by the City Planning and Zoning Commission, and
approved by the City Commission, and upon disapproval by the City Planning and
Zoning Commission may be similarly overruled. The City Planning and Zoning
Commission may make recommendations to any public authority, or any
corporations or individuals in the city or in the territory contiguous thereto,
concerning the relocation of any building, structures or works to be erected or
constructed by them.
(Ord. 141, passed 1-4-1954)
Cross-reference:
   Master Plan, see
Chapter 155
§ 32.022 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC UTILITY.
   (A)   All plans, plots or replots of land laid out into streets, alleys or
other portions of the same, intended to be dedicated to public use, or for the
use of purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjoining and located within
the corporate limits of the city shall be submitted to the City Planning and
Zoning Commission for recommendation before any connection shall be permitted
with any public utility, such as water or sewers, owned and operated by the
city; provided however, that in case of its unfavorable recommendation the City
Planning and Zoning Commission shall communicate its reason for disapproval to
the City Commission and thereupon, by majority vote of the City Commission, it
shall have the power of overruling the disapproval.
   (B)   No sewer or water improvements shall be voted on or made, nor shall
any public money be expended within any lands laid out in building lots,
streets or alleys until the plan, plot or replot of the lands shall have been
recommended by the City Planning and Zoning Commission, and approved by the
City Commission, or by the City Commission.
(Ord. 141, passed 1-4-1954)
§ 32.023 RECOMMENDATION FOR APPOINTMENT OF EMPLOYEES.
   The City Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend to the City Commission
the appointment of employees as it may deem necessary for its work. They may
also recommend to the City Commission contracts with city planners, engineers,
architects and other consultants for services as it may require. No
expenditures by the City Planning and Zoning Commission shall be made until
same shall have been submitted to and approved by the City Commission, which
may provide the funds, equipment and accomodations necessary for the
Commission's work.
(Ord. 141, passed 1-4-1954)
§ 32.024 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The City Planning and Zoning Commission shall make to the City Commission an
annual report, giving a statement of its work during the preceding year. In the
annual report it shall also make its recommendations as to future projects to
be undertaken, and from time to time it shall also make like recommendations
for public improvements, which in its judgment, should be undertaken.
(Ord. 141, passed 1-4-1954)
§ 32.025 EXTENDED TO COVER EXTRATERRITORIAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Board is hereby extended in its application to
include all of the area within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city.
The provisions of this section shall have the same force and effect within the
area of extraterritorial jurisdiction as within the corporate limits of the
city, except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   No violation of any provision of §§
32.015 through
32.024 outside the corporate limits of the city, but within the city's area of
extraterritorial jurisdiction shall constitute a misdemeanor under §§
32.015 through
32.024, nor shall any fine provided for in §§
32.015 through
32.024 be applicable to a violation within the area of extraterritorial
jurisdiction.
   (C)   In the event any provision of §§
32.015 through
32.024 is violated within the area of extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city
and outside its corporate limits, the city may institute any appropriate
actions or proceedings in the district court of the county to enjoin the
violation of §§
32.015 through
32.024.
(Ord. 141D, passed 4-9-1984)
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 32.040 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be commonly known and cited as the Parks and
Recreation Board subchapter.
(Ord. 449, passed 6-25-1985)
§ 32.041 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. A person so designated and in charge of the Parks and Recreation
Department.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, recreation center, community center
or any other area in the city owned or used by the city, and devoted to active
or passive recreation, including all planted expressways, parkways, triangles
and traffic circles maintained by the city, except the parkway strips between
curbs and sidewalks along the several streets and highways of the city.
(Ord. 449, passed 6-25-1985)
§ 32.042 COMPOSITION.
   A Parks and Recreation Advisory Board consisting of five active members is
hereby established as follows.
   (A)   Members shall be qualified voters of the city.
   (B)   Members shall be chosen by the City Commission in a manner prescribed
by the City Commission.
   (C)   Members shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   Members' terms will be two years, but members shall not continuously
serve for a period in excess of four years.
   (E)   The Parks and Recreation Board shall annually elect a Chairperson, a
Vice-Chairperson and a Secretary-Treasurer.
      (1)   The Chairperson shall preside over meetings and shall be entitled
to vote upon each issue. In the event that a question over procedure arises,
Robert's Rules of Order shall prevail.
      (2)   The Vice-Chairperson shall assist the Chairperson in directing the
affairs of the advisory board. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice-
Chairperson shall assume all duties of the Chairperson.
      (3)   The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings and in the
Secretary's absence, the Chairperson shall designate another member to act as
Secretary. The Secretary shall read, once a year, at the first regular meeting
following the appointment of officers, the parks and recreation ordinance. The
Secretary may accept the assistance of city personnel in taking and
transcribing minutes, when available, but shall sign same officially before
presenting same to the Board for approval.
      (4)   The Director of Parks and Recreation and the City Manager shall be
ex officio members of the Board, with the responsibility to participate in
discussions but without the right to vote.
      (5)   Any member may resign his or her position by giving written notice
to the Parks and Recreation Director or the City Manager. Upon receipt of the
resignation, the City Commission shall replace him or her by a new appointment
within ten days therefrom.
      (6)   A member's absence from two consecutive meetings without formal
consent of the Board shall be deemed to constitute the retirement of that
member and shall be certified by the Chairperson to the City Commission.
(Ord. 449, passed 6-25-1985)
§ 32.043 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Parks and Recreation Board shall have the following powers and perform
the following duties.
   (A)   It shall act principally in an advisory capacity to the City Manager
and the City Commission in all matters pertaining to parks and recreation,
shall acquaint itself with and make a continuous study and review of the
complete parks and recreation services of the city; and shall advise with the
City Manager and City Commission from time to time as to the present and future
maintenance, operation, planning, acquisition, development, enlargement and use
policies of the city park and recreation services.
   (B)   It shall study and encourage the development of parks and recreation
areas and study and encourage the development of wholesome recreation for all
residents of the city.
   (C)   It shall advise with the Parks and Recreation Director and City
Manager on problems of development of recreation areas, facilities, programs
and improved recreation services.
   (D)   It shall recommend the adoption of standards on areas, facilities,
program and financial support.
   (E)   The members of the Board shall study and review the master planning
guide, if any, for parks and recreation and become familiar with the plan and
its relation to existing and proposed facilities and shall become aware of any
revision or updating thereof.
   (F)   It shall advise and recommend to the Parks and Recreation Director and
the City Manager on the development of long-range capital improvement programs
and, when in its opinion the need exists for additional park and recreational
facilities, grounds or premises, it shall make appropriate recommendations to
the City Commission. It shall also recommend the acquisition of additional
parks, park and recreational equipment and supplies.
   (G)   It shall develop for City Commission review the rules and regulations
as may be prescribed by the City Commission for the conduct of its business.
   (H)   It shall develop for City Commission review rules, regulations and
policies governing the use of park and recreational facilities.
   (I)   It shall make any other recommendations to the City Commission
regarding park and recreation matters that it considers advisable.
   (J)   It may solicit for the city gifts, revenues, bequests or endowments of
money or property as donations or grants from any person, subject to the
approval and acceptance by the City Commission.
   (K)   It may, from time to time, recommend to the City Commission amendments
or changes to this subchapter.
   (L)   The Board, through its Chairperson, shall make both an oral and
written report annually to the City Commission concerning its activities during
the past year and its proposals for the coming year.
   (M)   The Board's authority shall not extend to the direction, supervision,
employment or termination of employees of the Parks and Recreation Department.
No supervisory power of the Board is created.
   (N)   It shall develop written policies and procedures for the Parks and
Recreation Director to follow in the conduct of all recreational activities.
   (O)   The Board will review the proposed budget for the Parks and Recreation
Department and make any recommendations to the Commission it deems necessary.
However, the Board is not authorized to add, delete or change in any way the
budget as prepared by the parks and recreation staff.
   (P)   The Board will develop for Commission approval a set of bylaws
governing rules of procedure for their meetings and operation.
   (Q)   The Board shall not have the power to obligate the city for any funds
or expenditures or incur any debt on behalf of the city.
   (R)   All powers and duties prescribed and delegated herein are delegated to
the Board as a unit, and all action hereunder shall be of the Board acting as a
whole. No action of an individual member is authorized except through the
Board.
(Ord. 449, passed 6-25-1985)
§ 32.044 PROCEDURES.
   The procedures of the Parks and Recreation Board are set out below.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Board shall establish the regular meetings of
the Board, which shall be held in a public place with public notice as
prescribed by law.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or by written
request sent to the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson by three members of the
Board.
   (C)   All meetings shall be open to the public in accordance with the Open
Meeting statute (Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat. Article 6252-17).
   (D)   All questions presented for a vote of the Parks and Recreation Board
shall be decided by a simple majority of those voting members present. Only
those voting members present can vote.
(Ord. 449, passed 6-25-1985)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
§ 32.055 CREATION.
   The Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation attached hereto to
Ordinance 556 as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference as a part
hereof for all purposes, are hereby approved and the City Commission hereby
authorizes the filing of the Articles of Incorporation with the Secretary of
State in accordance with the Act.
(Ord. 556, passed 1-10-1995)
§ 32.056 SALES AND USE TAX.
   There shall be and is hereby adopted and levied a sales and use tax within
the city for the benefit of the Corporation at a rate of 0.5% of the sales of
items at retail and a use tax at the same rate on the use, storage or other
consumption within the city of tangible personal property purchased, leased or
rented from a retailer during such time as the tax is effective within the
city. The tax shall be imposed, computed, administered, collected and remitted
in accordance with V.T.C.A. Tax Code, Chapter 321, except as inconsistent with
§ 4B of the Act. The effective date of the tax adopted and levied by this
subchapter and imposed by § 4B of the Act is January 1, 1995, which is the
first day the tax may be imposed after complying with the requirements of the
Act and the Tax Code.
(Ord. 556, passed 1-10-1995)
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL
§ 32.070 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Community Development Council for the
purpose of advising the City Commission whenever requested to do so by the City
Commission, on all matters related to the desirable, proper and timely
development of the city; as incidental to its defined purpose as indicated
above, the Community Development Council may receive and review information and
reports from citizens participation groups, as well as prepare recommendations
to the City Commission in this regard; and generally acting and serving as the
official chain of communication between various citizens participation groups
and the City Commission.
   (B)   It is here specifically stated that the Community Development Council
is to be an advisory board to the City Commission solely and has no
administrative authority beyond that specific authority granted to it by the
City Commission. It is here specifically stated that the Community Development
Council does not relate to any federal or state program directly.
(Ord. 344, passed 11-25-1974)
§ 32.071 COMPOSITION.
   The City Community Development Council shall consist of 16 members,
including a Chairperson. Each of the various neighborhoods designated on the
map attached hereto to Ordinance 344 as Exhibit A will serve as the residence
of two members to be appointed by the City Commission to the City Community
Development Council and that no alternates are appointed.
(Ord. 344, passed 11-25-1974; Ord. 344A, passed - -)
§ 32.072 POWERS.
   The City Community Development Council shall have the power to adopt bylaws
for the proper conduct of its business. All bylaws adopted by the City
Community Development Council shall be subject to the approval or disapproval
of the City Commission and shall be promptly submitted to the City Commission
for approval or disapproval in whole or in part, after their passage originally
or by amendment and shall become effective from and at the time of the approval
by the City Commission acting at its next regular meeting following the
submittal of the bylaws by the City Community Development Council.
(Ord. 344, passed 11-25-1974)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Police Officers
   
33.01   Appointment
   
33.02   Qualifications
   
33.03   Compensation
Police Reserve Unit
   
33.15   Created
   
33.16   Purpose
   
33.17   Operation
   
33.18   Meetings
   
33.19   Termination; procedure
   
33.20   Uniform
   
33.21   Membership
   
33.22   Transfer
   
33.23   Termination; reasons
   
33.24   Review of suspensions, demotions or terminations
   
33.25   Policies enacted
   
33.26   Director and sponsor
   
33.27   Commanding officer
   
33.28   Other officers
   
33.29   Does not affect the operation of the Police Department
   
33.30   Confidentiality
   
33.31   Insurance coverage
Disabled Parking Enforcement
   
33.45   Chief of Police to appoint
   
33.46   Application
   
33.47   Powers
   
33.48   Parking areas to which this subchapter applies
Ambulance Service
   
33.60   Laguna Madre Community ambulance service
Charter reference:
   Department of Police, see Charter,
Article III, §
3.02
POLICE OFFICERS
§ 33.01 APPOINTMENT.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to appoint not more than six police
officers.
(Ord. 128A, passed 3-24-1953)
§ 33.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The police officers must be residents of the city and each police officer so
appointed shall give a bond payable to the city in the sum of $1,000
conditioned that he or she will faithfully and impartially discharge the duties
required by law, and will promptly pay over to the party entitled to receive it
all monies that may come into his or her hands during his or her term of
office.
(Ord. 128A, passed 3-24-1953)
§ 33.03 COMPENSATION.
   Any police officer so appointed and not paid on a salary basis shall be
entitled to receive as compensation for his or her service a fee of $3 for
appearance and testimony in court relative to an arrest made by the officer.
The fee shall be taxed as costs against any defendant convicted of a
misdemeanor, as provided in ordinance styled.
(Ord. 128A, passed 3-24-1953)
POLICE RESERVE UNIT
§ 33.15 CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Police Reserve Unit under the conditions, rules
and regulations hereinafter set out.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Police Reserve Unit shall be to assist and augment the
regular Police Department of the city.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.17 OPERATION.
   (A)   The operation of the Police Reserve Unit shall be subject to the
policy determination of the City Commission.
   (B)   The Chief of Police at any time shall have the right to amend the
rules and regulations; adjust the policy; suggest procedural changes; and to
expand or decrease the membership or disband the City Police Reserve Unit. Any
policy changes in the operation of the Reserve Unit shall be subject to review
and approval by the City Commission.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.18 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Police Reserve Unit shall be held in the City
Hall building on the first Thursday of each month at 7:00 p.m. and presided
over by the Commanding Officer of the Reserve Unit or his or her designated
assistant under supervision of the Chief of Police. To such an extent as
possible, parliamentary rules shall be observed and proper order maintained.
During these monthly meetings instruction will be held on police efficiency. It
is recognized that the Police Reserve Unit is a voluntary organization and for
that reason, strict military discipline is not to be desired.
   (B)   Proper functioning and effective service to the city requires that
certain rules and regulations be made and observed.
      (1)   A member must attend 50% of the meetings during each quarter, and
perform patrol or other police activities a minimum of 50% each quarter.
Legitimate reasons for absence will be accepted, but must not become habitual.
      (2)   All members shall complete the basic course for reserve law
enforcement as required by the State Commission on Law Enforcement Standards.
      (3)   Each member of the Police Reserve Unit shall devote a minimum of
eight hours per week to regular police activity. This requirement is in
addition to the regular meeting schedule.
      (4)   Punctual attendance, prompt obedience to orders and conformity to
rules of the Department will be rigidly enforced. Members unable to report
punctually for duty for any cause must notify their superior officer and
receive permission to be absent prior to the time set for the commencement of
their tour of duty, or when a regular meeting is being held.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.19 TERMINATION; PROCEDURE.
   When a member of the Police Reserve Unit is terminated for any reason, all
uniforms, badges, identification and other equipment shall be returned to the
Supply Sergeant in reasonable condition. A release will then be signed to clear
the terminating member of any obligation in this regard.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.20 UNIFORM.
   (A)   Each member of the Police Reserve Unit shall be expected to wear his
or her uniform at all regular meetings, other meetings as are scheduled in
advance and while performing duties pertaining to Police Department activities.
   (B)   Each member shall furnish his or her own belts and holster, which
shall be black in color. He or she shall also furnish his or her own pistol or
revolver which shall be of .32 caliber or larger, and preferably of .38 special
caliber. He or she shall wear black shoes or boots when in uniform.
   (C)   A member will not at any time be permitted to carry a pistol or
revolver on or about his or her person or in his or her automobile except under
the following conditions:
      (1)   While proceeding to or from a shooting range; and/or
      (2)   Upon specific instructions of the Chief of Police.
   (D)   All weapons shall be kept in excellent service condition at all times.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.21 MEMBERSHIP.
   Membership in the City Police Reserve shall be limited in number as
determined by the Chief of Police and City Manager, but in no event shall be
less than six nor more than 12. No member is permitted to belong to any
emergency-type organization such as the Volunteer Fire Department, other police
reserves and the like.
   (A)   New members. Upon approval of the Chief of Police, acting on the
recommendation of the Commanding Officer, the new member shall take the
prescribed oath of office and be issued badges and commission. He or she shall
then report to the Identification Office of the city for fingerprinting,
photographing and the like. The Commanding Officer shall issue his or her
equipment and obtain a receipt. The new member shall then report to his or her
Chief of Police, who will make assignments as are needed.
   (B)   Screening procedure. The initial interview of a prospective applicant
shall be made by the Commanding Officer, who will then investigate the
applicant and report to the Chief of Police. The Commanding Officer shall then
submit his or her recommendations to the Chief of Police who will determine if
the appointment is to be accepted.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.22 TRANSFER.
   Any transfers from one squad to another, if more than one squad exists,
shall be with the consent of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.23 TERMINATION; REASONS.
   The membership of any member may terminate or be terminated, suspended or
demoted at any time for one of the following reasons:
   (A)   His or her own volition;
   (B)   Flagrant and serious violation of Unit or Department rules and
regulations;
   (C)   Repeated minor violations of Unit or Department rules and regulations;
   (D)   Violations in general may include, but are not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Drinking intoxicating liquors while on duty or in uniform;
      (2)   Willful disobedience of a lawful order;
      (3)   For unnecessary violence toward any person;
      (4)   For sleeping on duty or being absent from a post without a
superior's permission;
      (5)   For disrespect shown toward a superior officer;
      (6)   For indecent, profane or harsh language while on duty or in
uniform;
      (7)   For accepting a bribe;
      (8)   For cowardice;
      (9)   For conduct subversive to the good order and discipline of the
Department;
      (10)   For failure to report for duty or a meeting without first
obtaining permission from a superior officer; and
      (11)   For releasing information concerning official business without
permission.
   (B)   Those acts, not specifically stated herein, which involve moral
turpitude, or acts and violations of departmental rules and regulations, or
which may bring discredit upon the individual or upon the Department, or which
may conflict with the policies announced by the Department from time to time,
if such an act be committed or violation incurred by a member of the Police
Reserve, the action shall be taken that may be necessary depending upon the
seriousness of the offense and in the same manner and degree as if the offense
had been specifically stated herein.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.24 REVIEW OF SUSPENSIONS, DEMOTIONS OR TERMINATIONS.
   Any suspensions, demotions or terminations so made are subject to review by
the Commanding Officer and Chief of Police, who shall determine if the
suspension is to be permanent or temporary. Their decision shall be final.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.25 POLICIES ENACTED.
   General policies, procedures, code of conduct and manner of operation other
than that stated above shall be enacted and followed as suggested or instructed
by the Commanding Officer, the Chief of Police or his or her designated
assistant.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.26 DIRECTOR AND SPONSOR.
   (A)   The Chief of the Police Department shall be the director and sponsor
of the Police Reserve Unit.
   (B)   He or she shall aid in developing and establishing policies,
directives and standard operating procedures, and programs of the Unit.
   (C)   He or she shall appoint the Commanding Officer of the Reserve Unit.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.27 COMMANDING OFFICER.
   The Commanding Officer of the Police Reserve Unit shall be directly
responsible to the Chief of the City Police Department and shall carry out the
policies, orders and directives as are issued by or through the Chief of Police
or his or her designated assistant. The Commanding Officer shall develop, with
the advice of the Chief of Police, organizational policies, standard operating
procedures and training programs of the Unit. He or she shall be responsible
for seeing the overall program of the Unit is properly adhered to, developing
and maintaining continued assignments, or instructions as directed or delegated
by the Chief of Police. The Commanding Officer shall preside over all meetings
of the Police Reserve Unit.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.28 OTHER OFFICERS.
   Other officers may be provided as the need arises, e.g. chaplain, firearms
instructor, medical officer, photographer, records and identification officer
and the like.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.29 DOES NOT AFFECT THE OPERATION OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Nothing herein shall be construed to in any way or manner affect the
operation of the Police Department or the rights and privileges of the members
thereof under the Civil Service Act of the state, being Texas Local Gov't Code,
§ 143.001 et seq.
   (B)   At all times when a member of the Police Reserve is accompanied by a
member of the regular Police Department, the member of the regular Police
Department will be the person in charge of the operation being accomplished.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.30 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   All official business of the Department must be treated as confidential and
shall not be transmitted to anyone without first obtaining permission of the
Chief of Police to release the information.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 33.31 INSURANCE COVERAGE.
   Prior to placing a new member on the Police Reserve Unit, the Chief of
Police shall first determine that the City Commission has provided for adequate
insurance coverage of the member, the adequacy of the coverage to be determined
by the City Commission and further that the member has met any and all bonding
requirements as determined by the City Commission.
(Ord. 318A, passed 6-11-1985)
DISABLED PARKING ENFORCEMENT
§ 33.45 CHIEF OF POLICE TO APPOINT.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall have the authority to
appoint any adult person who is a citizen of the United States, is a resident
of the city, is of good moral character, and who has not previously been
convicted of a felony, to enforce the provisions of Tex. Transportation Code §
681.011 in the city.
(Ord. 583, passed 12-9-1997)
§ 33.46 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each person appointed pursuant to this subchapter shall complete an
application and satisfactorily complete a course of training on disabled
parking enforcement.
   (B)   The application required by division (A) above shall show the name,
address, age, telephone number, driver's license number and photograph of the
applicant. The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, is specifically
authorized to require additional information from the applicant. Upon receipt
of the application required by the foregoing division of this section, the
Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall cause a complete and thorough
investigation to be made of the applicant to determine his or her
qualifications as required by §
33.45.
(Ord. 583, passed 12-9-1997)
§ 33.47 POWERS.
   Any qualified persons so appointed, after taking the oath of office
prescribed by the city shall have the power to serve citations for violations
for failure to comply with Tex. Transportation Code § 681.011, in the same
manner as any law enforcement officer of the state or county or municipality of
the state subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   No person so appointed shall be deemed a peace officer, nor an
employee of the state, county or the city, nor receive any compensation
therefrom.
   (B)   No person appointed shall be required to complete training as a peace
officer.
   (C)   No appointed person shall have the power to or duty to enforce other
traffic or criminal laws.
   (D)   No appointed person shall possess any type of weapon while performing
duties of enforcing the disabled parking law.
   (E)   No appointed person shall be entitled to any indemnification from the
state, county or the city for any injury or property damage sustained as a
result of enforcement activities. Each appointed person shall specifically
acknowledge that the person has no rights to any claim of injury or property
damage resulting from disabled parking enforcement activities.
   (F)   No government, agency, department or officer of the state, county or
city shall be liable or accountable for any act or omission of any person
appointed to issue disabled parking citations pursuant to this subchapter. Each
authorized person shall specifically hold harmless the city, its employees,
officers and agents, from liability for any act or omission by the authorized
person.
(Ord. 583, passed 12-9-1997)
§ 33.48 PARKING AREAS TO WHICH THIS SUBCHAPTER APPLIES.
   The provisions of Tex. Transportation Code § 681.011 shall apply to a
parking space or area for persons with disabilities on private property that is
designated and in compliance with the identification requirements of Tex.
Transportation Code § 681.009(b).
(Ord. 583, passed 12-9-1997)
AMBULANCE SERVICE
§ 33.60 LAGUNA MADRE COMMUNITY AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   (A)   The Laguna Madre Community Ambulance Service has contacted the City
Commission requesting that the city take over the ambulance service, all of its
assets and accounts receivable.
   (B)   The Laguna Madre Community Ambulance Service is also requesting that
it be understood that service is to be furnished to Laguna Vista Town site,
Laguna Heights and the Town of South Padre Island if they ask for assistance.
   (C)   The City Commission will accept the ambulance service, assets and
accounts receivable as offered by the Laguna Madre Community Ambulance Service,
upon the preparation of the legal transfer documents and the execution of same.
(Ord. 347, passed 3-24-1975)
CHAPTER 34: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Fire Marshal
   
34.01   Position created
   
34.02   Investigation of fires
   
34.03   Testimony taken
   
34.04   Refusal to be sworn or appear to testify
   
34.05   Investigations may be private
   
34.06   Authority to enter premises
   
34.07   Prosecution
   
34.08   Fire protection and emergency response fees
Fire Hydrants
   
34.20   Fire hydrant rental
 
   
34.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Fire Marshal, see Charter,
Article III, §
3.08
FIRE MARSHAL
§ 34.01 POSITION CREATED.
   The office of Fire Marshal is hereby created. The office shall be
independent of other city departments, the Fire Marshal reporting directly to
the Mayor and City Commission. The office shall be filled by appointment by the
Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Commission, ten days after this
subchapter shall take effect. The Fire Marshal shall be properly qualified for
the duties of his or her office, and shall be removed only for cause. He or she
shall receive an annual salary of $1 per year, as full compensation for his or
her services.
(Ord. 68, passed 5-2-1938)
§ 34.02 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   The Fire Marshal shall investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of
every fire occurring within this city by which property has been destroyed or
damaged, and shall especially make investigation as to whether the fire was the
result of carelessness or design. The investigation shall be begun within 24
hours, not including Sunday, of the occurence of the fire. The Fire Marshal
shall keep in his or her office a record of all fires, together with all facts,
statistics and circumstances, including the origin of the fires and the amount
of the loss, which may be determined by the investigation required by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 68, passed 5-2-1938)
§ 34.03 TESTIMONY TAKEN.
   The Fire Marshal, when in his or her opinion further investigation is
necessary, shall take or cause to be taken the testimony, on oath, of all
persons supposed to be cognisant of any facts or to have means of knowledge in
relation to the matter under investigation, and shall cause the sums to be
reduced to writing; and if he or she shall be of the opinion that there is
evidence sufficient to charge any person with the crime of arson, or with the
attempt to commit the crime of arson, or of conspiracy to defraud, or criminal
conduct in connection with a fire, he or she shall cause the person to be
lawfully arrested, and charged with an offense or either of them, and shall
furnish to the proper prosecuting attorney all such evidence together with the
names of witnesses and all of the information obtained by him or her, including
a copy of all pertinent and material testimony taken in the case.
(Ord. 68, passed 5-2-1938)
§ 34.04 REFUSAL TO BE SWORN OR APPEAR TO TESTIFY.
   Any witness who refuses to be sworn, or who refuses to appear or testify, or
who disobeys a lawful order of the Fire Marshal, or who fails or refuses to
produce any book, paper or document touching any matter under examination, or
who is guilty of any contemptous conduct during any of the proceedings of the
Fire Marshal in the matter of the investigation or inquiry, after being
summoned to give testimony in relation to any matter under investigation as
aforesaid, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and it shall be the duty of
the Fire Marshal to cause all such offenders to be prosecuted. Any person being
convicted of any such misdemeanor shall be fined in a sum not exceeding $25;
provided, however, that any person so convicted shall have the right of appeal.
(Ord. 68, passed 5-2-1938)
§ 34.05 INVESTIGATIONS MAY BE PRIVATE.
   All investigations held by or under the direction of the Fire Marshal may,
in his or her discretion, be private and persons other than those required to
be present may be excluded from the place where the investigation is held, and
witnesses may be kept separate and apart from each other and not allowed to
communicate with each other until they have been examined.
(Ord. 68, passed 5-2-1938)
§ 34.06 AUTHORITY TO ENTER PREMISES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal shall have the authority at all times of day or
night, when necessary, in the performance of the duties imposed upon him or her
by the provisions of this subchapter, to enter upon and examine any building or
premises where any fire has occurred, and other buildings and premises
adjoining or near the same, which authority shall be exercised only with reason
and good discretion.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal, upon complaint of any person having an interest in
any building or property adjacent and without any complaint, shall have a right
at all reasonable hours, for the purpose of examination to enter into and upon
all buildings and premises within the city, and it shall be his or her duty,
monthly or more often, to enter upon and make or cause to be entered and make a
thorough examination of all mercantile, manufacturing and public buildings,
together with the premises belonging thereto. Whenever he or she shall find any
building or other structure which, for want of repair, or by reason of age or
dilapidated condition, or for any cause, is especially liable to fire, and
which is so situated as to endanger other buildings or property, or so occupied
that fire would endanger persons or property therein, and whenever he or she
shall find an improper or dangerous arrangement of stoves, ranges, furnaces or
other heating appliances of any kind whatsoever, including chimneys, flues and
pipes with which the same may be connected, or a dangerous arrangement of
lighting devices or systems, or a dangerous or unlawful storage of explosives,
compounds, petroleum, gasoline, kerosene, dangerous chemicals, vegetable
products, ashes, combustible inflammable and refuse materials, or other
conditions which may be dangerous in character or liable to cause or promote
fire or create conditions dangerous to the firefighters or occupants, he or she
shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and the order shall be
forthwith complied with by the owner or occupant of the building or premises.
Provided however, that if the owner or occupant deems himself or herself
aggrieved by the order, he or she may, within five days, appeal to the Mayor,
who shall investigate the cause of the complaint and unless by his or her
authority the order is revoked, the order shall remain in force and be
forthwith complied with by the owner or occupant. At the end of each month the
Fire Marshal shall report to the State Fire Marshal all existing hazardous
conditions, together with separate report on each fire in the city during the
month.
(Ord. 68, passed 5-2-1938)
§ 34.07 PROSECUTION.
   No prosecution shall be brought under §
34.99 until the order provided for in §
34.06 be given, and the party notified shall fail or refuse to comply with the
same.
(Ord. 68, passed 5-2-1938)
§ 34.08 FIRE PROTECTION AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE FEES.
   (A)    Fee collection. 
      (1)   The Fire Department is authorized to collect fees for services
provided inside the city limits as well as those provided outside the city
limits pursuant to all applicable rules, regulations, and state law.
      (2)   Fees are the responsibility of the property owner or occupant and
are due and payable immediately upon receipt of an invoice from the Fire
Department or its authorized agent.
      (3)   The Fire Department is authorized to obtain the requisite incident
information to collect fees through internal and/or contractual services.
   (B)   Fire protection and emergency response fees for motor vehicle
accidents. Equipment:
 
Type                    Fee       Note
Fire Engine (Pumper)    $200/hour 1 hour min.
Fire Engine (Tanker)    $200/hour 1 hour min.
Rescue Vehicle          $200/hour 1 hour min.
Command Unit            $75/hour  1 hour min.
Fire Investigation Unit $75/hour  1 hour min.
 
   (C)   Special events fees. Special events sponsors shall be charged for any
and all services required by the Fire Department, as determined by the Fire
Department in its sole discretion, working in conjunction with the city’s
special events personnel, including, but not limited to standby fire apparatus
and its personnel, and/or fire/medical crews and vehicles. Such special events
fees shall be due and payable with the special events permit application, and
shall be in addition to any fees incurred for other Fire Department services
rendered.
   (D)   Fines for negligent or irresponsible actions.
      (1)   A fine shall be charged for negligent, irresponsible, or otherwise
unacceptable and malicious acts.
      (2)   The Fire Department may file charges in Municipal Court by the city
Fire Department, and a fine may be assessed. Any such fine shall be in addition
to any fees charged.
      (3)   Fines for such acts shall be assessed as follows:
         (a)   False alarms (each incident, after three alarms in a calendar
year from a single component of an automatic fire sprinkler system) - $150
minimum. This includes mischievous actions of small children and the unknowing
actions of special needs adults.
         (b)   False alarms (each incident, for a deliberate and/or malicious
act of a telephone message or the activation of a manual alarm) - $200 minimum,
plus Municipal Court costs, if any.
         (c)   Failure to notify the Fire Department of an alarm activation
(each) - $150 minimum.
(Ord. 68-B, passed 12-12-2017)
FIRE HYDRANTS
§ 34.20 FIRE HYDRANT RENTAL.
   (A)   A charge be made against the city for services rendered thereto by the
water works system of the city on account of fire hydrants comprising a part of
the system.
   (B)   The annual charge or rental for each fire hydrant now or thereafter
included in the water works system, shall be the sum of $40 which sum has been
ascertained and is hereby declared to be a reasonable charge for the use or
benefit, or both, accruing to the city on that account.
   (C)   The charges shall be paid annually by the city on December 31 of each
year for the services rendered during that year, the first payment to be made
on December 31, 1937 and the proceeds from the payment shall be deposited with
other revenues derived from the operation of the water works system into a fund
separate and apart from other city funds, the fund to be used for the payment
of the reasonable cost of operating and maintaining the water works system and
for the payment of principal and interest on outstanding water revenue bonds as
therefor provided by ordinance.
   (D)   In order to pay the annual charges or rental for the fire hydrants, an
annual tax on each $100 valuation of all taxable property in the city in an
amount sufficient for that purpose, shall be and is hereby levied on the
property, and shall be annually assessed and collected and applied to the
purpose named.
   (E)   The necessity of establishing charges for hydrant rentals, so as to
facilitate the issuance of water revenue bonds heretofore authorized, and
provide for the repair, improvement and rehabilitation of the water system of
the city, which is necessary for the promotion of the public health, peace and
safety, requires that this section shall take immediate effect.
(Ord. 63, passed 3-15-1937)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner or occupant of a building or other structure or
premises, who shall keep or maintain the same when, for want for repair, or by
reason of age or dilapidated condition, or for any cause, it is especially
liable to fire, and which is so situated as to endanger buildings or property
of others, or is especially liable to fire and which is so occupied that fire
would endanger other persons or their property therein, shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $10.
      (2)   Any owner or occupant of any building or other structure or
premises, who shall keep or maintain the same with an improper arrangement of a
stove, range, furnace or other heating appliance of any kind whatever,
including chimneys, flues and pipes with which the same may be connected, so as
to be dangerous in the matter of fire, or health or safety of persons or
property of others; or who shall keep or maintain any building, other structure
or premises with an improper arrangement of a lighting device or system, or
with a storage of explosives, petroleum, gasoline, kerosene, chemicals,
vegetable products, ashes, combustibles, inflammable materials, refuse or with
any other condition which shall be dangerous in character to the person's
health or property of others; or which shall be dangerous in the matter of
promoting, augmenting or causing fires; or which shall create conditions
dangerous to firefighters, or occupants of the building, structure or premises
other than the maintainor thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $50.
      (3)   The penalties provided for in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above
shall be recovered by the city in the same manner as provided by law for the
enforcement of fines, forfeitures and punishments for offenses against the
city.
      (4)   Everyday's maintenance of any of the conditions prohibited in any
of the foregoing sections shall be a distinct and separate offense.
      (5)   All misdemeanors herein provided for shall be prosecuted, and all
fines and forfeitures herein provided for shall be recovered and enforced, in
the same manner as provided by law for the enforcement of fines, forfeitures,
penalties and punishments for offenses generally against the city.
(Ord. 68, passed 5-2-1938)
CHAPTER 35: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
35.01   Fines and cost
   
35.02   Special Expense Fund
   
35.03   Municipal Court Technology Fund
   
35.04   Municipal Court Building Security Fund
§ 35.01 FINES AND COST.
   (A)   Insofar as applicable, Vernon's Revised Civil Statutes (1925) C.C.P.
Article 867 through 920 are adopted and shall apply to the procedure to be used
in the corporation court.
   (B)   There shall be taxes as costs against any defendant convicted of a
misdemeanor in the court:
 
Arresting officer Fee of $3 for appearance and testimony in court
 
   (C)   Upon failure of a defendant to pay his or her fine and the costs
enumerated above, he or she shall be committed to jail until the fine and costs
are paid or until he or she has remained in jail a sufficient length of time to
satisfy the fine and costs at the rate of $3 for each day.
   (D)   All fines and costs collected shall be paid into the city treasury for
the use and benefit of the city.
(Ord. 128, passed 3-24-1953)
§ 35.02 SPECIAL EXPENSE FUND.
   (A)   The Municipal Court of the city shall assess and collect a special
expense, in an amount not to exceed $200 which shall be assessed for the
administrative cost of issuance and service of warrants of arrest of persons
charged with an offense under V.T.C.A. Penal Code § 38.11, or under Vernon's
Ann. Civ. St. Art. 6701d, § 149.
   (B)   Since the expense shall not be assessed or collected unless, at least
ten days prior thereto, the Clerk of the Municipal Court shall be caused to be
delivered to each person charged with the offenses, a written notice that,
failure to appear within the ten-day period before the judge of the Municipal
Court, will result in the assessment and collection of the special expense. The
notice shall be sufficient if placed in the United States mail addressed to the
person charged with the offense at his or her last known address.
   (C)   Upon collection of the special expense same shall be paid into the
city treasury for the use and benefit of the city.
   (D)   Enforcement of this section shall apply for offenses committed on or
after the effective date of this section. For purposes of this section, an
offense is committed before the effective date of this section, if any element
of the offense occurred prior to the effective date.
(Ord. 433, passed 7-24-1984; Ord. 433A, passed 12-27-1988)
§ 35.03 MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FUND.
   (A)   A Technology Fund for the Municipal Court of the city is hereby
created.
   (B)   All defendants convicted of a misdemeanor offense in the Municipal
Court shall pay a technology fee of $4 as a cost of court.
   (C)   A person is considered convicted of a misdemeanor under this section
if:
      (1)   A sentence is imposed on the person;
      (2)   The person is placed on community supervision, including deferred
adjudication community supervision; or
      (3)   The Court defers final disposition of the person's case.
   (D)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall collect these costs and pay the funds
to the Finance Director of the city and the costs shall be deposited in a fund
known as the City Municipal Court Technology Fund.
   (E)   The fund may only be used to finance the purchase of technological
enhancements for the City Municipal Court as now or hereafter provided by Tex.
Code of Criminal Procedure Article 102.1072.
   (F)   The technology fee as provided for herein may only be charged as costs
of court for offenses committed on or after September 1, 1999.
   (G)   The fund shall be administered under the direction of the City
Commission.
(Ord. 602, passed 9-27-1999)
§ 35.04 MUNICIPAL COURT BUILDING SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   A Municipal Court Building Security Fund for the Municipal Court of
the city is hereby created.
   (B)   All defendants convicted of a misdemeanor offense in the Municipal
Court shall pay a security fee of $3 as a cost of court.
   (C)   A person is considered convicted of a misdemeanor under this section
if:
      (1)   A sentence is imposed on that person;
      (2)   The person receives community supervision, including deferred
adjudication; or
      (3)   The court defers final disposition of the person's case.
   (D)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall collect these costs and pay the funds
to the Finance Director of the city and the costs shall be deposited in a fund
known as the City Municipal Court Building Security Fund.
   (E)   The fund may only be used to finance items used for the purpose of
providing security services for the building housing the Municipal Court as now
or hereafter provided by Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure Article 102.017.
   (F)   The security fee as provided for herein may only be charged as costs
of court for offenses committed on or after September 1, 1999.
   (G)   The fund shall be administered under the direction of the City
Commission.
(Ord. 603, passed 9-27-1999)
CHAPTER 36: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
   
36.01   Organization
   
36.02   Emergency management director; powers and duties
   
36.03   Emergency management plan
   
36.04   Interjurisdictional program
   
36.05   Override
   
36.06   Liability
   
36.07   Commitment of funds
   
36.08   Offenses
   
36.09   Limitations
National Incident Management System
   
36.20   Adopted
Acts to Be Performed by City Employees, Officers or Agents in Emergency
Situations
   
36.30   To act as reasonably necessary
   
36.31   Limited city liability
 
   
36.99   Penalty
COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN
§ 36.01 ORGANIZATION.
   There exists the office of Emergency Management Director of the city, which
shall be held by the Mayor in accordance with state law.
   (A)   An Emergency Management Coordinator may be appointed by and serve at
the pleasure of the Director.
   (B)   The Director shall be responsible for a program of comprehensive
emergency management within the city and for carrying out the duties and
responsibilities set forth in this subchapter. He or she may delegate authority
for execution of the duties and responsibilities, but the authority shall
remain with the Director.
   (C)   The operational emergency management organization of the city shall
consist of the officers and employees of the city so designated by the Director
in the emergency management plan, as well as organized volunteer groups. The
functions and duties of this organization shall be distributed among the
officers and employees in accordance with the terms of the emergency management
plan.
(Ord. 629, passed 7-8-2003)
§ 36.02 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Emergency Management Director shall
include the following:
   (A)   Surveying actual or potential hazards which threaten life and property
within the city and identifying and requiring or recommending the
implementation of measures which would tend to prevent the occurrence or reduce
the impact of hazards if a disaster did occur;
   (B)   Supervision of the development and approval of an emergency management
plan for the city and shall recommend for adoption by the City Commission all
mutual aid arrangements deemed necessary for the implementation of the plan;
   (C)   Authority to declare a local state of disaster. The declaration may
not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days except by or
with the consent of the City Commission. Any order or proclamation declaring,
continuing or terminating a local state of disaster shall be given prompt and
general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the City Secretary;
   (D)   Issuance of necessary proclamations, regulations or directives which
are necessary for carrying out the purposes of this subchapter. The
proclamations, regulations or directives shall be disseminated promptly by
means calculated to bring its contents to the attention of the general public
and, unless circumstances attendant on the disaster prevent or impede, promptly
filed with the City Secretary;
   (E)   Direction and control of the operations of the city emergency
management organization as well as the training of emergency management
personnel;
   (F)   Determination of all questions of authority and responsibility that
may arise within the emergency management organization of the city;
   (G)   Maintenance of liaison with other municipal, county, district, state,
regional or federal emergency management organizations;
   (H)   Marshaling of all necessary personnel, equipment or supplies from any
department of the city to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the
emergency management plan; and
   (I)   Supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements, in
cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other local political
subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if deemed desirable,
of an agreement with the county in which the city is located and with other
municipalities within the county, for the county-wide coordination of emergency
management efforts.
   (J)   Supervision of, and final authorization for the procurement of all
necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private contributions
which may be offered for the purpose of improving emergency management within
the city.
   (K)   Authorizing of agreements, after approval by the City Attorney, for
use of private property for public shelter and other purposes.
   (L)   Surveying the availability of existing personnel, equipment, supplies,
and services which could be used during a disaster, as provided for herein.
   (M)   Other requirements as specified in the Texas Disaster Act (Texas Gov't
Code Chapter 418).
(Ord. 629, passed 7-8-2003)
§ 36.03 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   A comprehensive emergency management plan shall be developed and maintained
in a current state. The plan shall set forth the form of the organization;
establish and designate divisions and functions; assign responsibilities,
tasks, duties, and powers; and designate officers and employees to carry out
the provisions of this subchapter. As provided by state law, the plan shall
follow the standards and criteria established by the State Division of
Emergency Management of the State of Texas. Insofar as possible, the form of
organization, titles, and terminology shall conform to the recommendations of
the State Division of Emergency Management. When approved, it shall be the duty
of all departments and agencies to perform the functions assigned by the plan
and to maintain their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness at
all times. The emergency management plan shall be considered supplementary to
this subchapter and have the effect of law during the time of a disaster.
(Ord. 629, passed 7-8-2003)
§ 36.04 INTERJURISDICTIONAL PROGRAM.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to join with the County Judge of the County
of Cameron and the mayors of the other cities in the county in the formation of
an interjurisdictional emergency management program for the County of Cameron,
and shall have the authority to cooperate in the preparation of an
interjurisdictional emergency management plan and in the appointment of a joint
Emergency Management Coordinator, as well as all powers necessary to
participate in a county-wide program of emergency management insofar as said
program may affect the City of Port Isabel.
(Ord. 629, passed 7-8-2003)
§ 36.05 OVERRIDE.
   At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this subchapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede and
override all existing ordinances, orders, rules, and regulations insofar as the
latter may be inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. 629, passed 7-8-2003)
§ 36.06 LIABILITY.
   This subchapter is an exercise by the city of its governmental functions for
the protection of the public peace, health, and safety and neither the City of
Port Isabel, the agents and representatives of the city, nor any individual,
receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association, or trustee, nor any of
the agents thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to
comply with, any order, rule, or regulation promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to
persons as the result of said activity. Any person owning or controlling real
estate or other premises who voluntarily and without compensation grants to the
City of Port Isabel a license or privilege, or otherwise permits the city to
inspect, designate, and use the whole or any part or parts of such real estate
or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual, impending,
or practice enemy attack or natural or man-made disaster shall, together with
his or her successors in interest, if any, not be civilly liable for the death
of, or injury to, any person on or about such real estate or premises under
such license, privilege or other permission or for loss of, or damage to, the
property of such person.
(Ord. 629, passed 7-8-2003)
§ 36.07 COMMITMENT OF FUNDS.
   No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city in
carrying out any emergency management activity authorized by this subchapter
without prior approval by the City Commission, nor shall any person have any
right to bind the city by contract, agreement, or otherwise without prior and
specific approval of the City Commission unless during a declared disaster.
During a declared disaster, the Mayor may expend and/or commit public funds of
the city when deemed prudent and necessary for the protection of health, life,
or property.
(Ord. 629, passed 7-8-2003)
§ 36.08 OFFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder, or
delay any member of the emergency management organization in the enforcement of
any rule or regulation issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry, or
display any emblem, insignia, or any other means of identification as a member
of the Emergency Management Organization of the City of Port Isabel, unless
authority to do so has been granted to such person by the proper officials.
(Ord. 629, passed 7-8-2003) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.09 LIMITATIONS.
   This subchapter shall not be construed so as to conflict with any state or
federal statute or with any military or naval order, rule, or regulation.
(Ord. 629, passed 7-8-2003)
NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
§ 36.20 ADOPTED.
   (A)   On February 28, 2003, the President issued Homeland Security
Presidential Directive (HSPD)-5 that directed the Department of Homeland
Security, in cooperation with representatives of federal, state and local
government, to develop a National Incident Management System (NIMS) to provide
a consistent approach to the effective management of situations involving
natural disasters, man-made disasters or terrorism.
   (B)   The final NIMS was released on March 1, 2004.
   (C)   The NIMS contains a practice model for the accomplishment of the
significant responsibilities associated with prevention, preparedness,
response, recovery and mitigation of all major and national hazards situations.
   (D)   The HSPD-5 requires that state and local governments adopt the NIMS by
fiscal year 2005 as a pre-condition to the receipt of federal grants, contract
and activities related to the management and preparedness for certain disaster
and hazard situations.
   (E)   The City Commission hereby adopts the National Incident Management
System dated March 1, 2004.
(Ord. 667, passed 9-13-2005)
ACTS TO BE PERFORMED BY CITY EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS OR AGENTS IN EMERGENCY
SITUATIONS
§ 36.30 TO ACT AS REASONABLY NECESSARY.
   Every officer, employee or agent of the city responding to an emergency call
or reacting to an emergency situation is hereby authorized to act in a manner
and to perform acts as are reasonably necessary to deal with the emergency call
or emergency situation.
(Ord. 465, passed 4-22-1986)
§ 36.31 LIMITED CITY LIABILITY.
   The city shall not be liable for the failure of its employees, officers or
agents to use ordinary care during the employee's, officer's or agent's
response to an emergency call or reaction to an emergency request.
(Ord. 465, passed 4-22-1986)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   Convictions for violations of the provisions of §§
36.01 through
36.09 shall be punishable by fine not to exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 629, passed 7-8-2003)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL AND RETIREMENT POLICIES
Section
Policies and Procedures Applicable to City Employees
   
37.01   Adopted by reference
Texas Municipal Retirement System
   
37.15   Adopted by reference
Social Security
   
37.30   Social Security
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES APPLICABLE TO CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 37.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   "Personnel Policies and Procedures", copies of which are attached hereto by
reference and maintained by the City Secretary, for all purposes is hereby
officially adopted and approved, and where there exists a conflict between any
of the ordinances contained in this code of ordinances and any of the
"Personnel Policies and Procedures", the "Personnel Policies and Procedures"
shall govern and prevail.
(Ord. 420, passed 9-26-1983; Ord. 420A, passed 8-26-2008; Res. 01-12-2016-1,
passed 1-12-2016)
TEXAS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM
§ 37.15 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Election to participate in the TMRS. On behalf of the city, the City
Commission hereby exercises its option and elects to have the city and all of
the employees of all departments, except the volunteer members of the Fire
Department, participate in the Texas Municipal Retirement System (hereafter
"TMRS") as provided in Tex. Gov't Code §§ 851.001 et seq., as amended; and all
of the benefits and obligations of the system are hereby accepted.
   (B)   Election to participate in the TMRS Supplemental Benefits Fund. The
City Commission elects to have the employees of all participating departments
of the city participate in and be covered by the Supplemental Benefits Fund of
the Texas Municipal Retirement System, as provided by Tex. Gov't Code §§
851.001 et seq.; and all the benefits and obligations of participation in the
fund are hereby accepted by the city as to the employees.
   (C)   Adoption by reference. Ordinances effecting the plan for participation
in the TMRS, employee contributions, updated service credits, increases in
benefits and retirement annuities and any other applicable legislation of the
city and state are adopted by reference into this code of ordinances as if
fully set forth herein and shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 438, passed 8-28-1984; Ord 498, passed 10-27-1987; Ord. 500, passed 11-
24-1987; Ord. 535, passed 11-25-1991; Ord. 536, passed 11-25-1991; Ord. 693,
passed 6-1-2017)
SOCIAL SECURITY
§ 37.30 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Execution of agreements.
      (1)   The City Commission, acting for and on behalf of the city, shall
enter into all necessary agreements with the State Department of Public Welfare
for the purpose of securing federal old age and survivor's insurance benefits
for city employees under applicable state and federal laws.
      (2)   The Mayor is appointed as agent of the City Commission and of the
city to execute all necessary agreements and instruments for and on behalf of
the City Commission and the city.
   (B)   Duties of City Secretary. The City Secretary is directed to be the
person responsible for making assessments, collections, payments and reports,
as required by the State Department of Public Welfare, in connection with the
federal old age and survivor's insurance program for city employees.
   (C)   Fund established. A sufficient sum of money shall be allocated and set
aside from available funds for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
applicable state and federal laws relating to the federal old age and
survivor's insurance program, the money so allocated and set aside to be known
as the City Social Security Fund, which fund shall be set aside and maintained
in the regular city depository.
(Ord. 325, passed 12-11-1972)
CHAPTER 38: CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   City's liability for attorney fees incurred by City Commissioners
   
38.02   Burning or smoking tobacco in municipal buildings
   
38.03   Identity theft program
Financial Policies
   
38.15   Delinquent accounts
   
38.16   City's policy for payment, review and approval of bills
   
38.17   Payments of costs and expenses for city action
Records Management Program
   
38.30   Definitions
   
38.31   City Commission records declared public property
   
38.32   Policy
   
38.33   Designation of records management officer
   
38.34   Records management plan to be developed; approval of plan; authority of
plan
   
38.35   Duties of records management officer
   
38.36   Duties and responsibilities of department heads
   
38.37   Designation of records liaison officers
   
38.38   Duties and responsibilities of records liaison officers
   
38.39   Records control schedules to be developed; approval; filing with state
   
38.40   Implementation of records control schedules; destruction of records
under schedule
   
38.41   Destruction of unscheduled records
   
38.42   Records center
Charter reference:
   Municipal Finance, see Charter,
Article VIII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 CITY'S LIABILITY FOR ATTORNEY FEES INCURRED BY CITY COMMISSIONERS.
   The city shall assume liability for reasonable attorney's fees incurred by
City Commissioners who have been sued in their individual capacities for action
taken while they are members of the City Commission and acting in that capacity
at the time the acts took place. The City Commission retains the right to
determine whether the attorney's fees are reasonable and only assumes liability
for attorney's fees determined to be reasonable by the City Commission. The
City Commission also retains the right to determine whether or not the
Commissioner involved was acting for and on behalf of the city at the time the
acts took place.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-26-1977)
§ 38.02 BURNING OR SMOKING TOBACCO IN MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she is in possession of a burning
tobacco smoking product, smokes tobacco, chews tobacco, or uses snuff in any
location owned by the city, in the municipal building, or library building of
the city, with the exception of streets and sidewalks.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section if the location in
which the offense takes place does not have prominently displayed a reasonably
sized notice that smoking is prohibited by state law in the location and that
an offense is punishable by a fine not to exceed $200.
   (C)   It is an exception to the application of division (A) above if the
person is in possession of the burning tobacco smoking product, smokes tobacco,
chews tobacco, or uses snuff exclusively within an area designated for smoking
tobacco.
   (D)   Under this section, smoking shall mean the use of any pipe, cigar,
cigarette, electronic cigarette, electric cigarette, hookah, water pipe, or
other device used to inhale powder, smoke, or vapor, regardless of the
substance; and smoking product shall mean any device used to inhale powder,
smoke, or vapor regardless of the substance.
(Ord. 473, passed 12-9-1986; Ord. 473-A, passed - -)
§ 38.03 IDENTITY THEFT PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Federal Trade Commission adopted rules pertaining to an Identity
Theft Prevention pursuant to the Red Flags Rule which implements § 114 of the
Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et
seq. which requires that creditors adopt an Identity Theft Prevention Program.
   (B)   The Red Flags Rule defines creditor to include all utility companies
and the city owns and provides utility services and/or accepts payments for
municipal utility services and is therefore classified as a creditor.
   (C)   The City Commission has requested that city personnel, including the
City Attorney, the City Manager/Administrator and the Finance Director, to
develop an Identity Theft Prevention Program and the personnel recommend the
Identity Theft Prevention Program attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Exhibit A ("Program"), attached to Ordinance 675, on file in the office of the
City Secretary.
   (D)   The City Commission has reviewed the Program and believes it fulfills,
complies and implements the Red Flags Rule and other requirements outlined by
the Federal Trade Commission.
   (E)   The City Commission finds that it is in the public interest to approve
the Program.
   (F)   All procedures and requirements of the Identity Theft Prevention
Program shall be implemented as outlined in the Exhibit A, attached to
Ordinance 675, on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 675, passed 4-21-2009)
FINANCIAL POLICIES
§ 38.15 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY ACTION. Any regulatory, legislative, governmental or proprietary
functions of the city concerning:
         (a)   The use or occupancy of real property; or
         (b)   The operation of any business activity within the city limits
and shall include requested or required inspections, and issuance of
certificates of occupancy, licenses and permits.
      DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS. Accounts, as used in this section, shall include
emergency medical services charges, garbage collection charges, lot and alley
mowing and cleaning charges, court fines and fees and all other indebtedness
(except ad valorem taxes) owed to the city by any person for any reason.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, venture, association,
trust, estate, foundation, institution, organization, group, governmental
subdivision or agency and any other entity recognized by law as the subject of
rights and duties whether operated for profit or not for profit. The term
PERSON shall include anyone acting as an agent, employee or otherwise on behalf
of a person.
   (B)   Delinquent accounts prohibit city action. Any person requesting or
requiring city action concerning the use or occupancy of real property within
the city limits or concerning the operation of any business activity within the
city limits, whether or not the request or requirement is otherwise required by
law, ordinance or regulation, shall include with the request a statement from
the City Secretary or Finance Director certifying that there are no delinquent
accounts owed by the person. No city action may be taken if the person owes a
delinquent account.
   (C)   Interest on delinquent accounts. All delinquent accounts, being those
accounts not paid to the city within 30 days of their due date, shall bear
interest at the rate of 10% per annum until paid.
   (D)   Collection charges. When an account owed to the city has become
delinquent and is given to a collection agency for collection, the person(s)
responsible for paying the account shall also be responsible for paying all
collection costs.
   (E)   Litigation costs. When an account owed to the city has become
delinquent and is given to an attorney for collection, the person(s)
responsible for paying the account shall also be responsible for all reasonable
and necessary attorney's fees as well as all other costs associated with the
litigation and coliection of the account.
   (F)   Disputed indebtedness.
      (1)   Any person, whether or not the person is requesting or requiring
city action, who disputes an indebtedness claimed by the city shall seek an
informal resolution with the City Manager who shall act in consultation with
the City Attorney.
      (2)   In the event informal resolution fails to resolve the dispute, the
person may appeal the determination of indebtedness or the amount thereof to
the dispute resolution panel of the city.
      (3)   The dispute resolution panel shall consist of the City Manager,
Finance Director, City Attorney, Mayor and a City Commissioner so appointed by
the City Commission. In the event one of these persons is a fact witness to the
appeal the person shall not serve on the panel for the appeal. The City Manager
shall appoint another city employee or city resident to serve as a panel
member.
      (4)   The person appealing the determination of the City Manager shall
have 30 days, from the City Manager's determination to request an appeal. The
request for an appeal shall be made in writing, filed with the City Secretary,
and shall fully explain what issues of indebtedness are being appealed and
shall include an explanation of why the person disagrees with the determination
of the City Manager.
      (5)   The dispute resolution panel shall hear the appeal in public forum
within 14 days after the appeal is filed and shall render a written decision,
based upon a majority vote, within ten business days following the conclusion
of the hearing.
      (6)   The decision of the panel shall be limited to whether an
indebtedness exists and, if so, the amount. No further findings may be made and
no other action may be taken by the panel. The decision shall be binding upon
all city departments, and no further appeal of the panel's decision will be
allowed.
(Ord. 484, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 484A, passed 7-28-1998; Ord. 588, passed 7-
28-1998)
§ 38.16 CITY'S POLICY FOR PAYMENT, REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF BILLS.
   (A)   The City Commission shall approve all bills received by the city prior
to their actual payment with the exception of the following which may be paid
by the City Manager without prior approval from the Commission:
      (1)   Payroll checks;
      (2)   Tax payments to the Internal Revenue Service and the State
Employment Commission arising out of the payroll;
      (3)   Utilities payments;
      (4)   Insurance payments;
      (5)   Retirement fund payments;
      (6)   Reimbursement to petty cash not to exceed $200;
      (7)   Rental payments owed by the city;
      (8)   Fuel expenses of the city; and
      (9)   Travel expenses previously authorized in the city's budget.
   (B)   In addition to the exceptions found in division (A), the City Manager
is further given the power to pay or authorize the payment of any bills which,
in his or her professional opinion, constitute an emergency so that the payment
of the bill(s) cannot reasonably be delayed until the next Commission meeting
scheduled for the approval of bills.
   (C)   Pursuant to this procedure, the City Manager or his or her designate
shall provide the Commission with a list of outstanding bills to be paid prior
to each regular meeting of the Commission and any special meetings held for the
purpose of approving bills.
   (D)   The City Manager or his or her designate shall further provide to the
Commission, for its review, prior to each regular meeting or any special
meeting called for the purpose of approving bills, a list of all bills paid
pursuant to the exceptions in division (A) above and any bills paid on an
emergency basis.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the procedures provided for in this section, the
city's department heads may request purchase order(s) at any time which, if
reasonable, may be approved by the City Manager without the need of any prior
Commission approval as to each and every request.
(Ord. 477, passed 12-23-1986)
§ 38.17 PAYMENTS OF COSTS AND EXPENSES FOR CITY ACTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY ACTION. Any city action by the city as defined in §
38.15(A).
      PERSON. Any person as defined in §
38.15(A).
   (B)   Payment of costs and expenses for city action. A person requesting
city action for private purposes or commercial interests, other than those for
which fees are already prescribed, shall pay for all costs and expenses
incurred by the city in providing the city action requested. Costs and expenses
shall include, but not be limited to, costs of city employee time expended,
professional service fees, filing and recording fees and all other expenses
incurred in providing the requested city action.
   (C)   Deposit for anticipated costs and expenses. Upon approval by the City
Secretary or Finance Director of a person's written request or application, as
required by §
38.15, the Finance Director shall notify the person of the provisions of this
section and, after consultation with the appropriate city employees and
professional service providers, shall determine an appropriate amount of money
to be deposited by the person to serve as security for payment of anticipated
costs and expenses. The person shall make the deposit in the amount or shall
make other satisfactory payment arrangements prior to any further city action.
   (D)   Notification and deposit required for city action. Until the Finance
Director has affirmed compliance with the requirements of division (C) above,
no item relating to the person's request for city action may be placed upon an
agenda for consideration nor may any other city action in furtherance of the
request occur.
   (E)   Statement of costs and expenses. Upon completion of the city action
requested and after all associated costs and expenses are determined, the
Finance Director shall prepare and deliver an itemized statement of costs and
expenses to the person who requested the city action. If the amount of the
costs and expenses exceeds the deposit, the person shall pay the balance due to
the city within five days. If the deposit amount exceeds the amount of the
statement, the balance shall be refunded to the person within five days.
   (F)   Failure to pay statement amount. Until payment is received in the full
amount due as shown in the itemized statement, all city action and the
effective date of the city action, if any, shall be suspended. The failure to
pay the full amount due, as shown in the itemized statement, within 30 days
after its delivery to the person shall cause and render all city action taken
to be null, void and held for naught. In that event, no amount previously
deposited or paid shall be refunded to any person.
(Ord. 609, passed 11-14-2000)
RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
§ 38.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY COMMISSION RECORDS. All documents, papers, letters, books, maps,
photographs, sound or video recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape, electric
media or other information recording media, regardless of physical form or
characteristic and regardless of whether public access to it is open or
restricted under the laws of the state, created or received by the City
Commission or any of its officers or employees pursuant to law or in the
transaction of public business are hereby declared to be the records of the
City Commission and shall be created, maintained and disposed of in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter or procedures authorized by it and in no
other manner.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. The officer who by ordinance, order or administrative
policy is in charge of an office of City Commission that creates or receives
records.
   ESSENTIAL RECORD. Any record of the City Commission necessary to the
resumptions or continuation of operations of the City Commission in an
emergency or disaster, to the re-creation of the legal and financial status of
the city, or to the protection and fulfillment of the people of the state.
   PERMANENT RECORD. Any record of the city for which the retention period on a
records control schedule is given as permanent.
   RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE. A document prepared by or under the authority of
the Records Management Officer listing the records maintained by the city,
their retention periods, and other records disposition information that the
records management program may require.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT. The application of management techniques to the
creation, use, maintenance, retention, preservation and disposal of records for
the purposes of reducing the costs and improving the efficiency of record
keeping. The term includes the development of records control schedules, the
management of filing and information retrieval systems, the protection of
essential and permanent records, the economical and space-effective storage of
inactive records, control over the creation and distribution of forms, reports
and correspondence and the management of micrographics and electronic and other
records storage systems.
   RECORDS LIAISON OFFICERS. The person designated under §
38.38 of this subchapter.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER. The person designated in §
38.33 of this subchapter.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN.  The plan developed under §
38.34 of this subchapter.
   RETENTION PERIOD. The minimum time that must pass after the creation,
recording or receipt of a record, or the fulfillment of certain actions
associated with a record, before it is eligible for destruction.
(Ord. 530, passed 8-28-1991)
§ 38.31 CITY COMMISSION RECORDS DECLARED PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All City Commission records as defined in §
38.30 of this subchapter are hereby declared to be property of the city. No
City Commission official or employee has, by virtue of his or her position, any
personal or property right to the records even though he or she may have
developed or compiled them. The unauthorized destruction, removal from files or
use of the records is prohibited.
(Ord. 530, passed 8-28-1991)
§ 38.32 POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City Commission to provide for
efficient, economical and effective controls over the creation, distribution,
organization, maintenance, use and disposition of all City Commission records
through a comprehensive system of integrated procedures for the management of
records from their creation to their ultimate disposition, consistent with the
requirement of the State Local Government Records Act, being Texas Local Gov't
Code §§ 201.001 et seq. and accepted records management practice.
(Ord. 530, passed 8-28-1991)
§ 38.33 DESIGNATION OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Commission or Mayor shall designate an individual employed by the
City Commission, to serve as Records Management Officer for the city. In event
of the resignation, retirement, dismissal or removal by action of the City
Commission or Mayor shall promptly designate another individual to serve as
Records Management Officer. The individual designated as Records Management
Officer shall file his or her name with the Director and librarian of the State
Library within 30 days of the date of designation, as provided by state law.
(Ord. 530, passed 8-28-1991)
§ 38.34 RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL OF PLAN; AUTHORITY OF
PLAN.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer shall develop a records management plan
for the city for submission to the City Commission. The plan must contain
policies and procedures designed to reduce the costs and improve the efficiency
of record keeping, to adequately protect the essential records of the City
Commission and to properly preserve those records of the City Commission that
are of historical value. The plan must be designed to enable the Records
Management Officer to carry out his or her duties prescribed by state law and
this subchapter effectively.
   (B)   Once approved by the City Commission, the records management plan
shall be binding on all offices, departments, divisions, programs,
commissioners, bureaus, boards, committees or similar entities of the city and
records shall be created, maintained, stored, microfilmed or disposed of in
accordance with the plan.
   (C)   State law relating to the duties, other responsibilities or record
keeping requirements of a department head do not exempt the department head or
the records in the department head's care from the application of this
subchapter and the records management plan adopted under it and may not be used
by the department head as a basis for refusal to participate in the records
management program of the city.
(Ord. 530, passed 8-28-1991)
§ 38.35 DUTIES OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   In addition to other duties assigned in the subchapter, the Records
Management Officer shall:
   (A)   Administer the records management program and provide assistance to
department heads in its implementation;
   (B)   Plan, formulate and prescribe records disposition policies, systems,
standards and procedures;
   (C)   In cooperation with department heads identify essential records and
establish a disaster plan for each City Commission office and department to
ensure maximum disruption and expense;
   (D)   Develop procedures to ensure the permanent preservation of the
historically valuable records of the City Commission;
   (E)   Establish standards for filing and storage equipment and for record
keeping supplies;
   (F)   Study the feasibility of and, if appropriate, establish a uniform
filing system and a form design and control system for the city;
   (G)   Provide records management advice and assistance to all City
Commission departments by preparation of a manual or manuals of procedure and
policy and by on-site consultation;
   (H)   Monitor records retention schedules and administrative rules issued by
the State Library and Archives Commission to determine if the records
management program and the City Commission's records contract schedules are in
compliance with state regulations;
   (I)   Disseminate to the City Commission and department heads information
concerning state laws and administrative rules relating to local government
records;
   (J)   Instruct Records Liaison Officers and other personnel in policies and
procedures of the records management plan and their duties in the records
management program;
   (K)   Direct Records Liaison Officers or other personnel in the conduct of
records inventories in preparation for the development of records control
schedules as required by state law and this subchapter;
   (L)   Ensure that the maintenance, preservation, microfilming, destruction
or other disposition of City Commission is carried out in accordance with the
policies and procedures of the records management program and the requirements
of law;
   (M)   Maintain records on the volume destroyed under approved records
control schedules, the volume of records microfilmed or stored electronically,
and the estimated cost and space savings as the result of the disposal or
disposition;
   (N)   Report annually to the City Commission on the implementation of the
records management plan in each department of the city, including summaries of
the statistical and fiscal data compiled under division (M) above; and
   (O)   Bring to the attention of the City Commission noncompliance by
department heads or other City Commission personnel with the policies and
procedures of the records management program or the Local Government Records
Act, being Texas Local Gov't Code §§ 201.001 et seq.
(Ord. 530, passed 8-28-1991)
§ 38.36 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, department heads
shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with the Records Management Officer in carrying out the
policies and procedures established in the city for the efficient and
economical management of records and in carrying out the requirements of this
subchapter;
   (B)   Adequately document the transaction of government business and the
services, programs and duties for which the department head and his or her
staff are responsible; and
   (C)   Maintain the records in his or her care and carry out their
preservation, microfilming, destruction, or other disposition only in
accordance with the policies and procedures of the records management program
of the city and requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 530, passed 8-28-1991)
§ 38.37 DESIGNATION OF RECORDS LIAISON OFFICERS.
   Each department head shall designate a member of his or her staff to serve
as Records Liaison Officer for the implementation of the records management
program in the department. If the Records Management Officer determines that in
the best interests of the records management program more than one Records
Liaison Officer should be designated for a department, the department head
shall designate the name of Records Liaison Officers specified by the Records
Management Officer. Persons designated as Records Liaison Officers shall be
thoroughly familiar with all the records of the city maintained by the
department. In the event of the resignation, retirement, dismissal or removal
by action of the department head of a person designated as Records Liaison
Officer, the department head shall promptly designate another person to fill
the vacancy. A department head may serve as Records Liaison Officer for his or
her department.
(Ord. 530, passed 8-28-1991)
§ 38.38 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF RECORDS LIAISON OFFICERS.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, Records Liaison
Officers shall:
   (A)   Conduct or supervise the conduct of inventories of the records of the
department in preparation for the development of records control schedules;
   (B)   In cooperation with the Records Management Officer coordinate and
implement the policies and procedures of the records management program in
their departments; and
   (C)   Disseminate information to department staff concerning the records
management program.
(Ord. 530, passed 8-28-1991)
§ 38.39 RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL; FILING WITH STATE.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer, in cooperation with department heads
and Records Liaison Officers, shall prepare records control schedules on
department by department basis listing all records created or received by the
department and the retention period for each record. Record control schedules
shall also contain other information regarding the disposition of City
Commission records as the records management plan may require.
   (B)   Each records control schedule shall be monitored and amended as needed
by the Records Management Officer on a regular basis to ensure that it is in
compliance with records retention schedules issued by the state and that it
continues to reflect the recordkeeping procedures and needs of the department
and the records management program of the city.
   (C)   Before its adoption, a records control schedule or amended schedule
for a department must be approved by the department head, the City Attorney and
the Finance Officer.
   (D)   Before its adoption, a records control schedule must be submitted to
and accepted for filing by the director and librarian as provided by state law.
If a schedule is not accepted for filing, the schedule shall be amended to make
it acceptable for filing. The Records Management Officer shall submit the
records control schedules to the director and librarian.
(Ord. 530, passed 8-28-1991)
§ 38.40 IMPLEMENTATION OF RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES; DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS
UNDER SCHEDULE.
   (A)   A records control schedule for a department that has been approved and
adopted under §
38.35 shall be implemented by department heads and Records Liaison Officers
according to the policies and procedures of the records management plan.
   (B)   A record whose retention period has expired on a records control
schedule shall be destroyed unless an open records request is pending on the
record, the subject matter of the record is pertinent to a pending lawsuit, or
the department head requests in writing to the Records Management Officer that
the record be retained for an additional period.
   (C)   Prior to the destruction of a record under an approved records control
schedule, authorization for the destruction must be obtained by the Records
Management Officer.
(Ord. 530, passed 8-28-1991)
§ 38.41 DESTRUCTION OF UNSCHEDULED RECORDS.
   A record that has not yet been listed on an approved records control
schedule may be destroyed if its destruction has been approved in the same
manner as records destroyed under an approved schedule and the Records
Management Officer has submitted to and received back from the director and
librarian an approved destruction authorization request.
(Ord. 530, passed 8-28-1991)
§ 38.42 RECORDS CENTER.
   A records center, developed pursuant to the plan required by §
38.35, shall be under the direct control and supervision of the Records
Management Officer. Policies and procedures, regulating the operations and use
of the records center shall be contained in the records management plan
development under §
38.35.
(Ord. 530, passed 8-28-1991)
CHAPTER 39: TAXATION
Section
Telecommunication Services
   
39.01   Taxation of telecommunication services
Local Hotel-Motel Occupancy Tax
   
39.15   Definitions
   
39.16   Tax
   
39.17   Collection
   
39.18   Report
   
39.19   City Commission's authorization
   
39.20   Use of revenue
Property Tax
   
39.30   Adopting Section 33.48(a) of the Texas Property Tax Code
   
39.31   Adopting Section 33.07 of the Texas Property Tax Code
Local Sales and Use Tax
   
39.45   Retaining taxes imposed
Homestead Tax
   
39.60   Tax exemption for property owners age 65 and over
 
   
39.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Power to Tax, see Charter,
Article VII, §
8.03
   Tax Liens, see Charter,
Article VII, §
8.05
   Taxes: When Due and Payable, see Charter,
Article VII, §
8.04
TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES
§ 39.01 TAXATION OF TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES.
   (A)   A tax is hereby authorized on all telecommunications services sold
within the city. For purposes of this section, the sale of telecommunications
services is consummated at the location of the telephone or other
telecommunications device from which the call or other communication
originates. If the point of origin cannot be determined, the sale is
consummated at the address to which the call or other communication is billed.
   (B)   The application of the exemption provided for in V.A.T.C.S. Article
1066c, § 4B(a), is hereby repealed by the city, as authorized by § 4B(b)
thereof.
   (C)   The rate of tax imposed by this section shall be the same as the rate
imposed by the city for all other local sales and use taxes as authorized by
the legislature of the state.
(Ord. 503, passed 12-29-1987)
LOCAL HOTEL-MOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX
§ 39.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSIDERATION. The cost of the room in the hotel only if the room is one
ordinarily used for sleeping, and shall not include the cost of any food served
or personal services rendered to the occupant of the room not related to the
cleaning and readying of a room for occupancy.
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings in which the people may, for a
consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations. The term shall include hotels,
motels, tourist homes, houses or courts, lodging houses, inns, rooming houses
or other buildings where rooms are furnished for consideration, but HOTEL shall
not be defined so as to include hospitals, sanitariums or nursing homes.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to use or possession of any
room in a hotel, if the room is one ordinarily used for sleeping and if the
occupant's use, possession or right to use or possession extends for a period
of less than 30 days.
   OCCUPANT. Anyone, who, for consideration uses, possesses or has a right to
use or possess, any room in a hotel if the room is one ordinarily used for
sleeping.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, corporation, association or
other business entity.
   QUARTERLY PERIOD. The regular calendar quarters of the year, the first
quarter being composed of the months of January, February and March, the second
quarter being of the months of April, May and June, the third quarter being the
months of July, August and September and the fourth quarter being the months of
October, November and December.
   TAX ASSESSOR-CO1LECTOR. The City Commission.
(Ord. 392, passed 9-22-1980; Ord. 392A, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 392B, passed 10-
14-1997)
§ 39.16 TAX.
   There is hereby levied a tax upon the cost of occupancy of any room or space
furnished by any hotel where the cost of occupancy is at the rate of $2 or more
per day, the tax to be equal to 6% of the consideration paid by the occupant of
the room to the hotel.
(Ord. 392, passed 9-22-1980; Ord. 392A, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 392B, passed 10-
14-1997)
§ 39.17 COLLECTION.
   Every person owning, operating, managing or controlling any hotel within the
city limits of the city and within its extraterritorial jurisdiction shall
collect the tax imposed by this subchapter for the city.
(Ord. 392, passed 9-22-1980; Ord. 392A, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 392B, passed 10-
14-1997)
§ 39.18 REPORT.
   On the last day of the month following each quarterly period, every person
required by this subchapter to collect the tax imposed herein shall file a
report with the City Commission showing the consideration paid for all room
occupancies in the preceding quarter, the amount of tax collected on the
occupancies, and any other information as the City Commission may reasonably
require. The person shall pay the tax due on the occupancies at the time of
filing the report.
(Ord. 392, passed 9-22-1980; Ord. 392A, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 392B, passed 10-
14-1997) Penalty, see § 33.99
§ 39.19 CITY COMMISSION'S AUTHORIZATION.
   The City Commission is hereby authorized to make rules and regulations as
are necessary to effectively collect the tax levied herein, and shall upon
reasonable notice to the persons required to collect the tax, have access to
books and records necessary to enable it to determine the applicability of the
subchapter and the amount of taxes due under its provisions.
(Ord. 392, passed 9-22-1980; Ord. 392A, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 392B, passed 10-
14-1997)
§ 39.20 USE OF REVENUE.
   All revenue derived from the tax levied herein shall be used for the
purposes authorized by law.
(Ord. 392, passed 9-22-1980; Ord. 392A, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 392B, passed 10-
14-1997)
PROPERTY TAX
§ 39.30 ADOPTING SECTION 33.48(a) OF THE TEXAS PROPERTY TAX CODE.
   (A)   Section 33.48(a) of the Tex. Property Tax Code provides that
attorney's fees approved by the court and not exceeding 15% of the total amount
of taxes, penalties and interest adjudged due the unit may be added to all
existing suits, unless judgment has already been taken prior to January 1,
1982, the 15% attorney's fee may be collected once a suit has been filed,
regardless whether or not judgment has been taken. The Code specifically
provides that both the 15% penalty and the attorney's fees may not be charged.
   (B)   The city hereby adopts the provisions of the Tex. Property Tax Code §
33.48(a).
(Ord. 400, passed 4-26-1982)
§ 39.31 ADOPTING SECTION 33.07 OF THE TEXAS PROPERTY TAX CODE.
   (A)   Section 33.07 of the Tex. Property Tax Code provides that a penalty of
not more than 15% of the tax, penalty and interest on delinquent taxes after
July 1 of the year in which they become delinquent when a tax unit or Appraisal
District has retained a private attorney for the collection of delinquent
taxes.
   (B)   In order to defray the cost of attorney's fees for the collection of
delinquent taxes, it is to the advantage of the taxpayers in this political
subdivision (or Appraisal District) to adopt the provisions of Tex. Property
Tax Code § 33.07.
   (C)   The city hereby adopts the provisions of Tex. Property Tax Code §
33.07 so that hereafter an additional penalty of 15% of the delinquent tax,
penalty and interest on delinquent taxes be imposed on taxes becoming
delinquent after January 1, 1982, not prior years, and that it will eliminate
the taxing unit the expense of paying the attorney for collecting the
delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 401, passed 4-26-1982)
LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX
§ 39.45 RETAINING TAXES IMPOSED.
   The city, by majority vote of its governing body, hereby votes to retain the
taxes authorized by the Local Sales and Use Tax Act (Vernon's Texas Civil
Statutes, Article 1066c) on the receipts for the sale, production,
distribution, lease or rental of, and the use, storage or other consumption of
gas and electricity for residential use, as authorized by House Bill No. 1,
Acts 1978, 65th Legislature, Second called Session, § 6.
(Ord. 382, passed 3-12-1979)
HOMESTEAD TAX
§ 39.60 TAX EXEMPTION FOR PROPERTY OWNERS AGE 65 AND OVER.
   (A)   All property owners residing within the city limits, who have reached
their sixty-fifth birthday and who have declared their exemption by proper
method and application at the tax office, be exempt from paying taxes on the
$3,000 amount as specified on their homestead.
   (B)   This exemption is to be applied to the 1975 tax year and the
succeeding years.
(Ord. 338, passed 7-8-1974; Ord. 339, passed 8-12-1974)
§ 39.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Local hotel-motel occupancy tax.
      (1)   If any person required by the provisions of this §§
39.15 through
39.20 to collect the tax imposed herein, makes reports as required herein, and
pays to the city the tax imposed herein, shall fail to collect the tax, or if
the person shall file a false report, the person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of not more that
$200 for each false report filed and for each failure to collect the
appropriate amount of tax from an occupant.
      (2)   If any person shall fail to report as required herein or shall fail
to pay to the city the tax imposed by §§
39.15 through
39.20 when the report or payment is due, he or she shall forfeit an additional
5% of the amount due as a penalty and, if the failure to file the report or to
pay the tax imposed is delinquent 30 days after the report or payment is due,
he or she shall forfeit a further amount equal to 5% of the tax. Provided,
however, that the penalty shall never be less than $1. Delinquent taxes shall
draw interest at the rate of 12% per annum beginning 60 days from the date due.
(Ord. 392, passed 9-22-1980; Ord. 392A, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 392B, passed 10-
14-1997)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE
         
51.   WATER
         
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
Garbage Collection Service
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Applicability of chapter
   
50.03   Duty to obtain garbage collection service
   
50.04   Billing
   
50.05   Billing liability
   
50.06   Delinquent accounts
   
50.07   Lien upon premises for delinquent accounts
   
50.08   Discontinuation of service; duty to notify city
   
50.09   Temporary discontinuation of service
   
50.10   Rates and regulations
   
50.11   Maintenance of premises
   
50.12   Maintenance of collection area
   
50.13   Maintenance of alleys
   
50.14   Lien for failure to maintain premises, collection area or alley
   
50.15   Unauthorized use of cart or bin
   
50.16   Unauthorized opening or entry of cart or bin
   
50.17   Contractor's responsibility for construction debris
   
50.18   Unlawful dumping
   
50.19   Criminal offense
   
50.20   Civil enforcement
Landfill
   
50.35   Sanitary landfill
Brush and Bulky Items for Collection
   
50.50   Definitions
   
50.51   Regulations
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICE
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOUNT CUSTOMER. A person in whose name a city garbage service collection
account is billed.
   ALLEY. A public way generally 20 feet in width used for public utility
purposes and as an alternate, secondary or emergency route for vehicle and
pedestrian traffic generally situated at the rear of a property lot.
   AUTHORIZED REFUSE COLLECTION CONTRACTOR. The person authorized by the city
to provide garbage collection service to a premises in the city.
   BIN. A metal receptacle, commonly referred to as a dumpster, created for the
purpose of storing garbage for collection and designed to be lifted and emptied
mechanically.
   BIN SERVICE.  Garbage collection service provided by the city's authorized
refuse collection contractor through use of a bin.
   BULKY WASTE. Household items such as stoves, refrigerators, water heaters,
washing machines, bedding, furniture, but does not include rubbish,
construction debris or hazardous waste.
   CART. A 96-gallon wheeled cart provided by the city, through its authorized
refuse collection contractor, for the purpose of storing and collecting
garbage.
   CITY. The City of Port Isabel, Texas.
   COLLECTION AREA. The area within 20 feet of a bin or cart placed at curbside
for regular garbage collection.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials resulting from roofing,
construction, remodeling, repair or demolition, but not waste materials
generated by a commercial contractor, and not including bulky waste, rubbish or
hazardous waste.
   CURBSIDE. Behind or alongside the curb of a street, but not in the street or
sidewalk nor in any place which interferes with vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
   DEPOSIT. To cast, throw, drop, place, unload, dump or in any other manner
relinquish control.
   GARBAGE. Waste and trash generated by human habitation and small commercial
accounts, but does not include rubbish, bulky waste, construction debris or
hazardous waste.
   GARBAGE COLLECTION. The twice weekly curbside collection of garbage in 96-
gallon wheeled carts and the periodic collection of rubbish, bulky waste and
construction debris from residential and small commercial premises.
   GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICE. Regularly scheduled garbage collection provided
by the city through the city's authorized refuse collection contractor.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste which is defined or characterized by a governmental
agency as hazardous or requiring special disposition such as tires, petroleum
containers, automobile batteries and similar items.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICE. Utility service provided by the city to an owner
or occupant of a premises in the city including garbage collection service.
   OCCUPANT. The resident, tenant, lessee, manager, supervisor or person in
charge of the premises and the person in whose name the utilities are billed.
If the occupant of the premises and the person to whom utilities are billed are
not the same person, then each shall be and are hereby deemed to be the
OCCUPANT for purposes of this subchapter.
   OWNER. The fee title holder of the premises and the person in whose name ad
valorem taxes are billed. If the person to whom the ad valorem taxes are billed
is not the same person as the fee title holder, then each shall be and are
hereby deemed to be the OWNER for purposes of this subchapter.
   PERSON. Whether an owner or occupant as defined herein, means and includes
any individual, partnership, corporation, company, venture, association, trust,
estate, foundation, institution, organization, group, governmental agency and
any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties whether
operated for profit or not for profit.
   PREMISES. A lot, tract or parcel of land located within the city limits used
for residential, commercial or any other purpose with either:
      (1)   A building or structure located thereon;
      (2)   A mobile home, HUD-Code manufactured home or recreational vehicle
located thereon; or
      (3)   A vessel docked, anchored or located adjacent thereto.
   RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. A premises used for human habitation not utilizing a
bin or provided with bin service.
   RUBBISH. Clean waste wood, wood products, yard waste, tree limbs and
trimmings, grass cuttings, shrubs, plants, weeds, leaves, printed material,
paper, pasteboard, rags, discarded clothing and similar household waste, but
not including bulky waste, construction debris or hazardous waste.
   SMALL COMMERCIAL PREMISES. A premises used for a commercial or
nonresidential purpose not utilizing a bin or provided with bin collection
service.
   UTILITY SERVICE. Active water and/or sewer service.
   VESSEL. Every kind of watercraft including ships and boats.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000; Ord. 611A, passed 4-28-2009)
§ 50.02 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the entire area within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 50.03 DUTY TO OBTAIN GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICE.
   The owner of a premises is responsible for and must obtain and maintain
garbage collection service for the owned premises. Garbage collection services,
if not already obtained by the owner, must be obtained by opening an account
for the services with the city and must be maintained by payment for the
services to the city. Every adult occupant of a premises is responsible for
knowing whether or not the owner of the premises has obtained or is maintaining
garbage collection service. In the event the owner has not obtained or is not
maintaining garbage collection service for a premises, it shall be the
responsibility and duty of every adult occupant of the premises to obtain and
maintain garbage collection services for the premises by opening an account for
the services with the city and maintaining an account by payment for the
services to the city. An owner and occupant are not required to obtain garbage
collection service from the city if they have obtained and are maintaining bin
service for the premises with the city's authorized refuse collection
contractor.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 BILLING.
   Garbage collection service bills for garbage collection service accounts
shall indicate current charges, late fees and delinquent amounts. The bills
shall be mailed to the person who has been billed for the account prior to the
adoption of this subchapter, or to owner or occupant of the premises being
served, or to the person in whose name the utility services are billed.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 50.05 BILLING LIABILITY.
   The owner and occupant of a premises are jointly and severally responsible
for the payment of all charges on the city's account for garbage collection
services provided to the premises. The owner and occupant shall be jointly and
severally liable for the timely payment of the account including garbage
collection fees, late fees, delinquent amounts and interest thereon, and costs
and expenses incurred by the city in its efforts to collect the account if it
be delinquent including costs of filing liens, collection agency charges, and
collection and lien enforcement actions including attorney's fees and all costs
of litigation.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   A garbage service collection account shall be delinquent if not paid
by the fifteenth day of the month in which it is mailed. A late fee in the
amount of 10% shall be charged to all delinquent accounts. All delinquent
accounts, not paid within 30 days after becoming delinquent, shall accrue
interest in the amount of 10% per annum.
   (B)   In the event a garbage collection service account remains delinquent,
in whole or in part, 60 days after becoming delinquent, garbage collection
service shall be discontinued. In the event garbage collection service is
discontinued to a premises, prior to reinstatement of service to the premises,
the owner or occupant must:
      (1)   Reapply for service in writing on an application provided by the
city;
      (2)   Pay all delinquent charges including late fees and interest;
      (3)   Pay a cart re-delivery fee in the amount set forth in the city's
rates and regulations for garbage collection services; and
      (4)   Pay a deposit in an amount equal to two months garbage collection
service for that type of account. If the account is maintained without a
delinquency for 24 consecutive months or upon closure of the account without
any amount due to the city, the deposit shall be refunded upon request by the
owner or occupant.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 LIEN UPON PREMISES FOR DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   In the event that the owner or occupant of a premises shall fail to pay for
the garbage collection services provided to the premises, a lien shall be
imposed upon the premises for all delinquent charges including late fees,
interest and all expenses for the filing, enforcement and foreclosure of the
lien including attorney's fees and all costs of litigation.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 50.08 DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE; DUTY TO NOTIFY CITY.
   The account customer and the owner and occupant of the premises who are
responsible for maintaining the garbage collection service are responsible for
and required to notify the city of their cessation of interest in the premises
receiving garbage collection service. Until notification, each shall remain
liable for the city's garbage collection service account for the premises. Upon
notification, garbage collection service and billing for same will be
terminated, or the account may be changed to the name of the new owner or
occupant of the premises. The notification shall be made in writing on a form
approved by the city.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 50.09 TEMPORARY DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE.
   The account customer, upon a satisfactory showing that water and sewer
service will be temporarily disconnected at the premises, may make an
application for temporary discontinuation of garbage collection service for
that period of time during which the water and sewer service will be
disconnected. The application must be in writing on a form approved by the city
and must be made prior to the time for which the person is requesting the
temporary disconnection of garbage collection service.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 50.10 RATES AND REGULATIONS.
   The rates for garbage collection service and for charges incidental thereto,
as well as regulations concerning bin service, garbage collection service and
the enforcement of this subchapter, shall hereafter be established by
resolution of the City Commission and may be amended from time to time
thereafter by resolution. Rates for garbage collection service to account
customers shall be based upon the charge to the city for the accounts by its
authorized refuse collection contractor plus an appropriate amount for billing
fees and tax.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 50.11 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   The owner and occupant of a premises, any area of which is visible to others
from a street, alley or adjacent private property, shall keep the area clean of
litter, garbage, rubbish, debris and every other thing and substance which is
objectionable, unsightly, unsanitary or which constitutes a nuisance or health
hazard. All litter, garbage, rubbish, debris and substances shall be properly
contained and placed for collection through use of carts or bins or as
otherwise provided by this subchapter or the regulations promulgated thereunder
by the city.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 50.12 MAINTENANCE OF COLLECTION AREA.
   The owner and occupant of a premises at which garbage collection services or
bin services are performed shall maintain the collection area in a clean and
safe condition and shall keep the collection area free of spilled or
uncontained garbage, loose papers, bagged garbage, discarded containers, broken
glass and every other thing and substance which is objectionable, unsightly,
unsanitary or which constitutes a nuisance or health hazard.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000; Ord. 611A, passed 4-28-2009)
§ 50.13 MAINTENANCE OF ALLEYS.
   The owner and occupant of a premises which abuts an alley shall maintain the
area between the property line and the centerline of the alley adjacent to the
premises regularly mowed, raked and in a condition free of tall grass and
weeds, spilled or uncontained garbage, loose papers, bagged garbage, discarded
containers, broken glass and every other thing and substance which is
objectionable, unsightly, unsanitary, or which constitutes a nuisance or health
hazard. Nothing in this section will be construed to permit alleys to be used
as a collection area, the area being limited to curbside of premises as herein
provided.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000; Ord. 611A, passed 4-28-2009)
§ 50.14 LIEN FOR FAILURE TO MAINTAIN PREMISES, COLLECTION AREA OR ALLEY.
   In the event the owner or occupant of a premises fails to maintain the
premises, collection area or alley as required by §§
50.11,
50.12 and
50.13 of this subchapter, the city shall, in addition to the remedies provided
by this subchapter, regulations promulgated thereunder, and other laws, be
entitled to perform the work necessary to remedy the conditions caused by the
failure and charge the owner and occupant for the work, and shall be also
entitled to the remedies provided it by Tex. Health and Safety Code Chapter 342
including the imposition and foreclosure of a lien against the premises.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 50.15 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF CART OR BIN.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to use a cart or bin, for the disposal of
garbage created by or belonging to themselves or another, without the consent
of the account customer, owner or occupant of the premises for which the cart
or bin has been provided.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 50.16 UNAUTHORIZED OPENING OR ENTRY OF CART OR BIN.
   (A)   Except for the regular collection of garbage by the city's authorized
refuse collection contractor, it shall be unlawful for a person, other than the
account customer, owner or occupant of the premises for which the cart or bin
has been provided, to open or enter a cart or bin for the purpose of viewing,
handling, inspecting or tampering with anything therein or retrieving anything
therefrom, regardless of value.
   (B)   It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that the
person opening or entering the cart or bin was recovering items such as
aluminum cans, glass, newspaper or cardboard for legitimate recycling purposes.
However, the defense shall not be available to a person who has spilled or
removed garbage from a cart or bin and who fails to replace the garbage to the
cart or bin from which it was spilled or removed.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above, the owner or
occupant of the premises for which the cart or bin has been provided shall have
the absolute right to prevent and prohibit any person from opening or entering
the cart or bin.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to a duly licensed peace officer or
health official in the performance of their official duties for a governmental
agency.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS.
   It shall be the responsibility for every person performing building,
roofing, remodeling or similar construction services to any premises to
collect, remove and properly dispose of all debris created by their work.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 UNLAWFUL DUMPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to deposit garbage, rubbish, bulky
waste, construction debris, hazardous waste or any other matter dangerous or
offensive to public health in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park or
other public place, or in or upon any drain, sewer, channel, bay, waterway or
any other public or private waters of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person possessing or transporting garbage,
rubbish, bulky waste or construction debris, hazardous waste or any other
matter dangerous or offensive to public health to deposit any matter at or upon
any public or private property within the city other than at a state-approved
public landfill and only then with the consent of the landfill operator.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of a premises to allow
or permit the deposit of garbage, rubbish, bulky waste, construction debris,
hazardous waste or any other matter dangerous or offensive to public health at
or upon the premises, unless such be properly and lawfully placed for
collection within the cart or bin provided for the premises.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19 CRIMINAL OFFENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a criminal offense for any person to:
      (1)   Fail to obtain and maintain garbage collection service, as required
in §
50.03 herein;
      (2)   Fail to notify the city of their cessation of interest in a
premises receiving garbage collection service, as required in §
50.08 herein;
      (3)   Fail to maintain a premises, collection area or alley, as required
in §§
50.11,
50.12 and
50.13 herein;
      (4)   Use a cart or bin without authorization, as prohibited by §
50.15 herein;
      (5)   Open or enter a cart or bin, as prohibited by §
50.16 herein;
      (6)   Fail to collect, remove and properly dispose of construction
debris, as required in §
50.17 hereof;
      (7)   Unlawfully deposit garbage, rubbish, bulky waste, hazardous
materials or any other matter dangerous or offensive to public health, and
prohibited by §
50.18 herein; or
      (8)   Disobey the regulations governing garbage collection service and
bin service established by resolution of the City Commission pursuant to this
subchapter.
   (B)   These are strict liability offenses for which no mens rea is required
for prosecution.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In addition to the criminal enforcement and other remedial provisions
provided herein and by state law, the City Attorney or his or her designee may
enforce the provisions of this subchapter through any and all civil remedies
available.
   (B)   In that event, persons against whom enforcement is sought and against
whom a civil remedy is granted, shall also be liable for damages, court costs,
attorney's fees and all costs and expenses reasonably related to the civil
enforcement action.
(Ord. 611, passed 11-14-2000)
Charter reference:
   City Attorney, see Charter
Article III, §
3.05
   Department of Health and Sanitation, see Charter
Article III, §
3.06
LANDFILL
§ 50.35 SANITARY LANDFILL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of garbage or other waste
material in any area not designated by ordinance as a sanitary landfill.
(Ord. 521, passed 1-9-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
BRUSH AND BULKY ITEMS FOR COLLECTION
§ 50.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BRUSH. Defined as tree limbs, shrubs, grass in a bag, and leaves in a bag,
separated from any other items, including bulky items, and placed in a pile
that does not exceed eight feet in length and four feet in width.
   BULKY ITEMS. Defined as furniture: sofas, tables, chairs, mattresses,
washers/dryers, water heaters, as well as refrigerators, freezers and A/C units
bearing a decal indicating that Freon has been removed by an authorized
facility, and placed separately from any other items, including brush. The
definition of bulky items shall specifically exclude tires, construction
material, demolition, roof shingles, corrugated metals, sheet rock, and
concrete/asphalt, lumber and cardboard boxes.
   COLLECTION PROGRAM. The periodic collection of a maximum quantity of
permitted items from the curbside or other designated locations.
(Ord. 691, passed 1-10-2017)
§ 50.51 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Public Works Department, in conjunction with the Finance
Department, shall establish and publish periods for the collection of brush and
bulky items.
   (B)   No person may place brush or bulky items for collection outside of the
published collection period.
   (C)   No person may place items for collection under this program that do
not meet the definition of brush or bulky items.
   (D)   A person who has contracted with a private hauler to remove brush or
bulky items is exempted from this section, provided the items are removed
within 24 hours of placement.
(Ord. 691, passed 1-10-2017)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Garbage collection service. A person who commits a criminal offense
under §§
50.01 through
50.20 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by
a fine in an amount not to exceed $2,000 per offense.
   (C)   A violation of §§
50.50 and
50.51 shall be a Class C misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 79, passed - -; Ord. 205, passed 5-11-1959; Ord. 691, passed 1-10-2017)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
City Water Works
   
51.01   Superintendent of Water Works
   
51.02   Unlawful acts
   
51.03   Unlawful connections
   
51.04   Discontinuation of use of city supplied water
   
51.05   Leaks and wastes of water
   
51.06   Meters
   
51.07   Separate connections and meters for each house
   
51.08   Meter deposit
   
51.09   Rates
   
51.10   Billing
   
51.11   Tapping charges
Sprinkling, Watering or Irrigating
   
51.25   Prohibition
   
51.26   Mayor can permit use
 
   
51.99   Penalty
CITY WATER WORKS
§ 51.01 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER WORKS.
   (A)   There shall be appointed by the City Commission, a Superintendent of
the Water Works, who shall be the administrative officer of the water works
system, including all engine houses, engines, pumps, reservoirs, stand pipes,
elevated tanks, pipe lines, hydrants, meters, wrenches, stopcocks, gate valves,
fire plugs, testing equipment and all other property and machinery used in or
connected with the water works system. He or she shall have general supervision
over all employees or the water works system and shall make frequent trips of
inspection over all pipe lines and all other property used in or connected with
the water works system, and shall make all repairs deemed necessary and
consistent with his or her duties.
   (B)   He or she shall also report all violations of this chapter to the City
Commission and shall forthwith proceed to have prosecuted offenders as set
forth in this chapter or any amendment thereof.
   (C)   He or she shall also attend to and control the water supply and at all
times see to the sufficiency thereof, and shall notify the community, unless
emergency requires otherwise, of the necessity of shutting off any pipe line
for the purpose of making repairs, extensions, connections and the like, should
he or she know beforehand the necessity to so shut off the water from any line
or lines of the system.
   (D)   In the performance of his or her duties as required by this section,
the Superintendent shall be subject at all times to the city ordinances, rules
and regulations. He or she shall serve for a term and receive compensation as
may be fixed by the governing body.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-19-1946)
§ 51.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to do, commit or
assist in committing, any of the following things or acts in the city:
   (A)   To open or close any fire hydrant or stop cock connected with the
water works system of the city; or lift or remove the covers of any gate valves
or shut offs thereof, without the permission of the Superintendent of the Water
Works, except in case of fire, and then under the direction of officers of the
Fire Department;
   (B)   To interfere with, destroy, deface, impair, injure or wantonly force
open any gate or door, or in any way whatsoever destroy, injure or deface any
part of any engine house, reservoir, standpipe, elevated tank, building or
buildings, or appurtenances, fences, trees, shrubs or fixtures or property
appertaining to the water works systems;
   (C)   To go upon or ascend the stairway or steps on any elevated water
storage tank or standpipe of the water works system, except by permission of
the Water Works Superintendent;
   (D)   To place any telegraph, telephone, electric light pole or any
obstruction whatsoever within three feet of any fire hydrant;
   (E)   To resort to any fraudulent device or arrangement for the purpose of
procuring water for himself, herself or others from private connections on
premises contrary to the city regulations or ordinances;
   (F)   To interfere with or injure any reservoir, tank, fountain, hydrant,
pipe, cock valve or other apparatus pertaining to the water works system, or to
turn on or off the water without authority to any street hydrant or other water
fixture, or to hitch or tie any animal thereto;
   (G)   To make or permit to be made any connections with the main or service
pipes of the water works system, or to turn on or use the water of the system
without first obtaining a permit therefor;
   (H)   To cover over or conceal from view any water valve box, service or
meter box;
   (I)   To remove any water meter that has been placed by the city, or in any
manner change, interfere with or tamper with any water meter providing that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to the employees of the city when
acting in their official capacity; or
   (J)   To turn on the water supply to any building or to any supply pipe
where the supply has been turned off for the nonpayment of the monthly water
charge or for the violation of any rule or ordinance governing the water works
system.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-19-1946) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make any
connection to the mains or pipes of the water system of the city, without first
making application to the city, stating fully the several and various uses for
which the water is wanted, giving the name of the owner of the property, the
number of the lot and the block, name of the street and house number. Upon the
payment of the tapping fee, the Superintendent shall make, or have made, the
necessary connections and furnish a cast iron curb stop box and curb cock, the
cost of which is included in the tapping fee; and every premises connected with
any water main, or being supplied with any water from the city water works,
shall have a separate service connection, curb stop box and curb cock. If the
application is approved by the Superintendent, a permit will be issued. All
fees and charges shall be paid for at amounts and rates fixed by this chapter
or by resolutions of the governing body.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-19-1946) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 DISCONTINUATION OF USE OF CITY SUPPLIED WATER.
   Any person wishing to discontinue the use of water supplied from the water
works system must give notice thereof to the city, or otherwise the charge will
be entered until the notice has been given. The charge for shutting off and
turning on of service shall be $1, and no allowance will be made in any case
for less than 30 days.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-19-1946)
§ 51.05 LEAKS AND WASTES OF WATER.
   It shall be the duties of all employees of the city, including officers and
members of the police force to report to the Superintendent of the Water Works
System upon blanks furnished for that purpose any leaks or unnecessary waste of
water that may come to their attention, also any violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-19-1946)
§ 51.06 METERS.
   All meters, whether private or belonging to the water works system shall be
set by the employees of the city. If the meter gets out of order and fails to
register, the consumer will be charged at the average daily consumption, as
shown by the meter when in order. All water that passes through the meter shall
be charged for, whether used or not.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-19-1946)
§ 51.07 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS AND METERS FOR EACH HOUSE.
   Each consumer of water, living in a separate house, must have a separate
connection and meter for each house. Provided where a residence is not in reach
of a city water main, arrangements may be made, at the option of the city, to
secure water from another user of city water, in which case the minimum monthly
charge shall be paid by the user through whose meter water is taken, and an
additional minimum charge shall be made for each additional residence taking
water through the meter. Each minimum will entitle the user to 2,300 gallons
per month. The regular minimum, the additional minimum and all water used over
the minimum by the consumers shall be charged to the customer having the meter.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-19-1946) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 METER DEPOSIT.
   Each water consumer shall put a $10 meter deposit up which may be applied to
the payment of any unpaid bills and when so used, the deposit shall be restored
to the original amount. Any unused portion of the deposit shall be refunded at
any time the account or service is discontinued.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-19-1946)
§ 51.09 RATES.
   The following uniform monthly rates shall be charged all persons, firms or
corporations for the use of water within the corporate limits of the city; the
rates are to remain in effect until they are changed by the City Commission.
   (A)   Domestic consumers.
      (1)   For the first 2,300 gallons or part thereof furnished during any
calendar month, the charge shall be $1.50, which shall constitute the minimum
charge; and if over the minimum amount and up to 5,000 gallons, the cost shall,
be derived at the rate of $0.65 per 1,000 gallons.
      (2)   For all water furnished in excess of 10,000 gallons during any
calendar month, the cost shall be $0.45 per 1,000 gallons.
      (3)   The minimum monthly charge shall be paid for each and every
separate residence.
      (4)   Summer rates may be established by resolution of the governing body
at its discretion. Likewise, special accounts may be granted by this same
governing body, whether the account be classified as domestic or commercial or
industrial.
   (B)   Commercial consumers.
      (1)   First 5,000 gallons shall be charged at the rate of $0.80 per 1,000
gallons, with the minimum charge of $1.50 for 1,875 gallons or less, in any
calendar month.
      (2)   For all water furnished in excess of 5,000 gallons and not more
than 10,000 gallons in any calendar month, the cost shall be $0.70 per 1,000
gallons.
      (3)   For all water furnished in excess of 10,000 gallons the cost shall
be $0.60 per 1,000 gallons, in any calendar month.
      (4)   For consumers outside the city limits, the foregoing rates
increased 50% shall apply. Curtailment of supply shall start with this class
first in the event the curtailment is deemed necessary at any time.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-19-1946)
§ 51.10 BILLING.
   (A)   All charges for water service furnished or rendered by the city water
works shall be due and payable on the first day of each month at the City Hall
in the office of the City Water Department, and if not paid within ten days
after same becomes payable and due, the city reserves the right to cut off and
discontinue water service to the premises without further notice and same shall
not be reconnected and no additional water furnished until all past due
accounts and charges are paid in full.
   (B)   Where service has been disconnected for failure to pay for services
rendered, a charge of $1 shall be made for each and every meter disconnected
before the service shall be restored or the water turned on again.
   (C)   If all charges for water service are not paid within 20 days of the
due date, the Superintendent of the Water Works shall cut off and disconnect
the water service; and if he or she fails to perform his or her duty, then he
or she shall personally liable to the city for the amount of the unpaid bill.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-19-1946)
§ 51.11 TAPPING CHARGES.
   (A)   The tapping charges for connections with the city water mains and
laterals shall be as follows:
Connection  Charge
(in inches)
Connection  Charge
(in inches)
3/4         $10
1           $15
1-1/4       $20
1-1/2       $20
2           $25
2-1/2       $25
3           $30
Over 3 to 4 $50
6           $100
 
   (B)   These additional charges shall apply where made in a dirt street and
there shall be an additional charge where the excavation is made in paved or
improved streets, as follows:
 
Item                   Charge per connection
Concrete paving        $15
Asphalt paving         $10
Gravel or shell paving $5
 
(Ord. 104, passed 7-19-1946)
SPRINKLING, WATERING OR IRRIGATING
§ 51.25 PROHIBITION.
   From and after the taking effect of this subchapter it shall be unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to use water supplied by the city for the
purpose of sprinkling, watering or irrigating lawns, flowers, shrubbery, trees
and/or gardens, using water for the purpose of washing cars, trucks, boats and
sluicing down floors in seafood packing plants, or indiscriminate waste of
water, at any time.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-22-1948) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 MAYOR CAN PERMIT USE.
   The Mayor of the city is hereby expressly authorized and empowered to permit
the use of such water for such purposes or any of them at any hour whenever in
his or her judgment the supply of such water is of sufficient quantity so that
the use will not adversely or injuriously affect the supply of water available
for uses essential to the public health and safety.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-22-1948)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Sprinkling. Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of
the provisions §§
51.25 and
51.26 shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not less than $1 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-22-1948)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Rates generally
   
52.02   Rates
   
52.03   Sewer connections
   
52.04   Rates outside city limits
   
52.05   Payment of bills
   
52.06   Rules and regulations
   
52.07   Owner must connect to sewer
   
52.08   Unlawful to interfere with pipes or appliance
   
52.09   Unpaid sewer bills
   
52.10   Discontinuance of service
   
52.11   Entry of premises by city personnel
   
52.12   Furnishing service to other houses
   
52.13   Privies
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 RATES GENERALLY.
   The prices, rates and charges hereinafter set forth shall be charged and
collected by the city for sewer service furnished by the city to users thereof,
and that the rules and regulations hereinafter contained relating to the
furnishing of sewer service, the use by users thereof, and the payment
therefor, be and the same are hereby prescribed and adopted, and only upon the
conditions hereinafter provided will any person be aligned or permitted to
connect with, or be connected with, the sewer system of the city or use the
sewer system of the city, and it shall be unlawful for any person to connect
with the city's sewer system or in any manner use the sewer system of the city
without paying therefor and complying with the regulations hereinafter
contained, and any person violating this chapter, or any part thereof, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished as
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 205, passed 5-11-1959) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 RATES.
   The rates to be charged and collected for sewer connections, which shall be
calculated, charged and collected monthly, shall be as follows:
One-family dwelling                                           $1.75 per month
Hotels, apartment houses and tourist courts
   One toilet                                              $1.75 per month
   Each additional toilet                                  $0.40 per month
Restaurants                                                   $9.00 per month
   Each toilet                                             $.40 per month
Sandwich shops and taverns                                    $3.25 per month
Filling stations                                              $3.25 per month
Heavy industry, including fishhouses whose floor drains are   $13.00 per month
connected with the sewer system of the city
Fishhouse whose floor drains are not connected with the sewer $1.75 per month
system of the city - for each toilet connected to the system
All other users                                               $1.75 per month
   Each toilet in excess of 2                              $0.40 per month
 
(Ord. 205, passed 5-11-1959; Ord. 205B, passed 12-11-1961; Ord 205C, passed 6-
10-1968)
§ 52.03 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All taps for sewer connections will be made by city crews where the
sewer main is in the street or alley in front of or alongside of the property
with which connection, is desired, and the city will put the tap in the sewer
main and extend the service line to the edge of the property.
   (B)   The rate or charge to be made, charged and collected therefor to be as
follows:
 
For 30 feet or less, 4-inch main Flat rate of $25.00
For 6-inch sewer connections     50% additional
 
(Ord. 205, passed 5-11-1959)
§ 52.04 RATES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Sewer service may be furnished outside the corporate limits of the
city only in the event the city is able to do so without detriment to consumers
within the city limits, and to the persons and upon the terms and conditions as
may to the City Commission appear to the best interest of the city.
   (B)   Save and except that charges for sewer service to every consumer,
whether domestic, commercial or industrial, shall be the same as charged
consumers under similar conditions within the city limits plus 100%.
(Ord. 205, passed 5-11-1959)
§ 52.05 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   All service bills shall be due within ten days from the date of bill, and if
not paid within that time, the bill shall become delinquent and a penalty of
10% of the amount will be added; and if the bill is not paid within 20 days
from date of same, the service will be discontinued, and the unpaid bill with
the above penalty and $1 for reconnecting service, must be paid before service
will be reinstated.
(Ord. 205, passed 5-11-1959)
§ 52.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to be connected with the
sewer system of the city shall make application in writing therefor to the City
Secretary, upon an application blank to be furnished for the purpose, and shall
furnish all pertinent information as may be required, and the application and
each and all of the statements therein contained shall be a part of the
consideration for the sewer service.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay to the city the amount of money charged by the
city for making the connection or connections. Upon receipt of the application
and payment as aforesaid, the city shall within a reasonable time connect
applicant's premises with the sewer system of the city, but the City Secretary
shall in no event permit any connection to be made until the written
application shall have been made and the amount charged therefor paid, and any
person who shall makes or attempts to make any connection with the city's sewer
mains in any manner other than herein provided shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as herein provided.
(Ord. 205, passed 5-11-1959)
§ 52.07 OWNER MUST CONNECT TO SEWER.
   (A)   Every owner of a building, or part thereof, occupied by people for any
purpose, any part of the day or night, situated on any city lot in the city,
where a public sewer is laid and maintained within 150 feet of the building or
any building on acreage tracts where the buildings are within 150 feet of a
public sewer, and having no water closet or privy connected with the sewer,
shall within 30 days after the enactment and legal publication of this chapter,
put up within the building or part of building used as aforesaid, or upon the
premises where the same is situated, a water closet or closets and have same
connected to the sewer. The work done in connection therewith, and all
materials used, shall comply strictly with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   In all cases where a water closet is now or may hereafter be connected
with the public sewer system, the owner controlling the same, or his or her
agent, shall cause the privy or closet to be supplied with water for flushing
which shall be delivered from a tank. The tank shall hold not less than four
gallons of water at each flushing and to refill with water at a pressure of not
less than 15 pounds per square inch. The water shall be conducted from the tank
to the bowl of the privy or closet through a circular metallic pipe of not less
than one and one-half inches diameter.
(Ord. 205A, passed 8-19-1959)
§ 52.08 UNLAWFUL TO INTERFERE WITH PIPES OR APPLIANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, excepting the employees of the city to
in any manner interfere with the pipes or appliances of the sewer system of the
city, unless a written permit shall have been first obtained from the City
Secretary.
(Ord. 205, passed 5-11-1959) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 UNPAID SEWER BILLS.
   All unpaid sewer bills shall be secured and held by the city as a lien upon
the property to which the sewer has been furnished, and in addition thereto,
the delinquent customer shall not be furnished with sewer service at any other
location until the delinquency is fully paid together with penalty.
(Ord. 205, passed 5-11-1959)
§ 52.10 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The city shall have the right and privilege of shutting off the sewer
service at any time, without notice, for any of the following causes, to-wit:
   (A)   For nonpayment of any amount due the city for sewer service;
   (B)   For interference with pipes or other appliances used in connection
with the service thereto by the city; and
   (C)   For the violation of or noncompliance with any of the rules and
regulations herein.
(Ord. 205, passed 5-11-1959) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 ENTRY OF PREMISES BY CITY PERSONNEL.
   Every user taking sewer service from the city shall permit the City
Secretary for the city, or his or her authorized agent, to enter into the
building or premises of the consumer at all reasonable times to examine the
water pipes, sewer fixtures or any other thing in connection therewith, and the
manner in which the sewer system is used, and any person or user refusing to
allow the City Secretary, or his or her authorized agent, to enter the premises
shall have his or her sewer service cut off, and the same shall not again be
turned on until the entry is permitted and inspection is allowed.
(Ord. 205, passed 5-11-1959)
§ 52.12 FURNISHING SERVICE TO OTHER HOUSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any user of sewer service to furnish sewer service
to other houses or families, or suffer or permit other houses or families to
take or use it, except upon written application of this intention and paying
the minimum rate on each family or house so served.
(Ord. 205, passed 5-11-1959) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.13 PRIVIES.
   (A)   On or after June 27, 19__ it shall be unlawful to dispose of any human
excreta within the corporate limits of the city except in a sanitary water
flush closet of a chemical toilet or concrete vault toilet or an approved
sanitary pit privy built according to the specifications of the State
Department of Health, as set forth in division (C) below.
   (B)   Every building intended for human habitation or occupancy abutting on
a street or alley in which there is a public sewer, or within 200 feet of a
public sewer, shall be connected with the sewer by the owner or agent of the
premises in the most direct manner possible and with a separate connection for
each house or building.
   (C)   The minimum requirements of a privy are that it shall be so
constructed, built or rebuilt that:
      (1)   The excreta deposited therein shall not fall upon the surface of
the ground but enter into a pit or vault in the ground, or a compartment built
for the purpose;
      (2)   The contents of the compartment, vault or pit shall be inaccessible
to flies, fowls or small animals at all times;
      (3)   Self-closing lids shall be provided for each unit;
      (4)   (a)   For a pit toilet the pit shall consist of an excavated
chamber conforming to the following dimensions:
 
Minimum width inside curbing      4 feet
Minimum length inside curbing     4 feet
Minimum depth from ground surface 4 feet
 
         (b)   The pit shall be provided with a box curbing, fitted closely to
the sides of the pit.
      (5)   Over the pit shall be placed a fly-tight seat which shall be
ventilated by a flue extending from the pit to eight inches above the roof of
the building and screened at the top and bottom with 16-mesh wire.
   (D)   All sanitary pit privies in the corporate limits of city shall be kept
in a clean condition at all times. Self-closing lids, the disposal of human
excreta and no wash water or garbage shall be deposited therein.
   (E)   If any defect occur in the pit privy which would affect its sanitary
condition, the defect shall be immediately repaired.
   (F)   All privies existing or maintained within the corporate limits of the
city after this section becomes effective which do not conform to the
requirements of this section shall be, and are hereby declared a nuisance, and
a menace to public health, and the city shall have the power and authority to
abate the nuisance in accordance with the law, or in accordance with the
ordinances of the city.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of the health officer having jurisdiction, or his
or her duly authorized assistant to enter all premises as may be necessary in
the enforcement of this section and he or she is hereby so empowered.
(Ord. 79, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Sewers. Any user of sewer service violating or permitting others from
their attachments of any of the city sewer connections to violate any of the
foregoing rules and regulations, or any person violating any of the provisions
of §§
52.01 through
52.12 governing connection or use of sewer, shall, upon conviction, be punished
by fine of not more than $100 the first offense: and of not less than $50 nor
more than $200 for every subsequent offense; and, in addition thereto, in case
of a first or subsequent offense, the City Secretary may require the sewer to
be cut off from the premises of the offending person until the person shall
give the City Secretary sufficient security against further violation of the
rules and regulations and the provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.12, and in case of persistent violation the City Secretary may forbid any
further service to the party so offending.
   (B)   Privies. Any person, firm or corporation who violates, refuses, or
fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
52.13 in the corporate limits of the city shall be punished by fine not
exceeding $100.
(Ord. 79, passed - -; Ord. 205, passed 5-11-1959)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   PARKING
         
73.   COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
         
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic Control
Devices adopted
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions as set forth in the State Transportation Code are hereby
adopted for purposes of this title.
(Ord. 597, passed 7-27-1999)
§ 70.02 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR A UNIFORM SYSTEM OF TRAFFIC CONTROL
DEVICES ADOPTED.
   The Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices (hereinafter referred to as the Manual) as now and hereinafter adopted
by the State Transportation Commission is hereby adopted by the city as the
official manual for traffic control devices.
(Ord. 597, passed 7-27-1999)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Traffic Control Devices
   
71.01   City Manager responsibility
   
71.02   City Commission responsibility
   
71.03   Existing traffic control devices
   
71.04   Report required
   
71.05   Installation prima facie evidence
   
71.06   Violation of vehicular parking regulations
Speed Zones
   
71.20   Speed zone regulations
 
   
71.99   Penalty
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.01 CITY MANAGER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The City Manager or his or her designee shall have the responsibility for
installing official traffic control devices within the city and they shall
install official traffic control devices in accordance with the Manual.
(Ord. 597, passed 7-27-1999)
§ 71.02 CITY COMMISSION RESPONSIBILITY.
   The City Commission, by vote recorded in the official minutes, may direct
the installation of traffic control devices in accordance with the Manual.
(Ord. 597, passed 7-27-1999)
§ 71.03 EXISTING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic control devices installed by the city now existing and recorded
in the official papers of the City Secretary are hereby declared to be official
traffic control devices of the city. All traffic control devices installed
after the effective date of this subchapter by the City Manager or his or her
designee shall be official traffic control devices of the city.
(Ord. 597, passed 7-27-1999)
§ 71.04 REPORT REQUIRED.
   Whenever the City Manager or his or her designee has installed a traffic
control device, he or she shall soon thereafter file a written report with the
City Secretary stating the type of traffic control device and the date and
location of the installation. The report shall be kept in a file and maintained
among the official papers of the office of the City Secretary.
(Ord. 597, passed 7-27-1999)
§ 71.05 INSTALLATION PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   In any prosecution for a violation of this subchapter concerning traffic
control devices, proof that the traffic control device was actually installed
shall constitute prima facie evidence that the same was installed pursuant to
the authority of this subchapter.
(Ord. 597, passed 7-27-1999)
§ 71.06 VIOLATION OF VEHICULAR PARKING REGULATIONS.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of vehicular parking regulations
within the city, proof that the vehicle described in the complaint was parked
in violation of a traffic control device, together with proof that the
defendant named in the complaint was at the time of the violation alleged the
registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute prima facie evidence that the
registered owner of the vehicle was the person who parked the vehicle at the
point where and for the time during which the violation occurred.
(Ord. 597, passed 7-27-1999)
SPEED ZONES
§ 71.20 SPEED ZONE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street of the
city not under the jurisdiction of the state or the county, in an urban
district, the areas being more fully described in Exhibit A which is attached
hereto to Ordinances 455 and 456 and incorporated herein for all purposes as if
fully set forth herein at this point, at a speed in excess of the speed
designated in Exhibit A.
   (B)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limits set forth herein does not, however, relieve the driver
from the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection,
when approaching and going around a curve, when traveling upon any narrow or
winding roadway or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions or any other cause;
and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any
person or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with law, and the
duty of all persons to use due care.
(Ord. 445, passed 1-14-1985; Ord 456, passed 11-12-1985) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Traffic control devices. Any person who fails to obey a traffic
control device authorized pursuant to §§
71.01 through
71.06 or other traffic control ordinance in the city shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $200.
   (B)   Speed zones. Any person who shall violate any provision of §
71.20, shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not less than $10 or more
than $200, and each separate act or failure to comply with any provision shall
constitute a separate violation of §
71.20.
(Ord. 597, passed 7-27-1999)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
Parking of Vehicles and Watercraft
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Charge and collection of fees
   
72.03   Signs and payment of fees
   
72.04   Nonpayment of parking fees
   
72.05   Civil enforcement
   
72.06   Prohibiting parking in public alleyways
   
72.07   Parking of trailers upon public rights-of-way
 
   
72.99   Penalty
PARKING OF VEHICLES AND WATERCRAFT
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motor driven or propelled vehicle required to be registered
under the laws of the state;
      (2)   An all-terrain vehicle or moped that is not required to be
registered under the laws of the state; and
      (3)   A trailer used for carrying a vehicle or anything that is drawn or
designed to be drawn by a vehicle.
   WATERCRAFT.
      (1)   A boat;
      (2)   Motorboat;
      (3)   Personal watercraft that is designed to be operated by a person or
persons sitting, standing or kneeling on the craft; and
      (4)   A trailer used for carrying a watercraft that is drawn or designed
to be drawn by a vehicle.
(Ord. 449A, passed 10-14-2008)
§ 72.02 CHARGE AND COLLECTION OF FEES.
   The city will establish a schedule of parking fees for any parks or other
areas determined by the City Commission to require a parking fee, and the city
will designate the parking areas for any parks or in any other designated
parking area located within the city. The amount of the parking fees for each
park or designated parking area will be established by the City Commission and
will be published by notice posted at the general location where any fee is to
be charged and shall be available from the City Secretary upon request.
(Ord. 449A, passed 10-14-2008)
§ 72.03 SIGNS AND PAYMENT OF FEES.
   Notice of the amount of parking fees charged, the specific striped spaces in
which a vehicle or watercraft may park, and the hours of permitted parking will
be posted on signs erected at the parks. Parking fees will be paid by the
vehicle or watercraft owner or operator depositing the required sum in the
designated collection board. It will not be a defense to any charge made
pursuant to this chapter that any notice or sign was not visible or had been
removed from the location.
(Ord. 449A, passed 10-14-2008)
§ 72.04 NONPAYMENT OF PARKING FEES.
   The owner/operator of a vehicle or watercraft in violation of this chapter
by failing to pay the required parking fee will receive a ticket for the
violation and be subject to the enforcement provisions set forth herein. Any
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this chapter will be subject to being
towed from the parking lot and impounded by a wrecker service authorized to
conduct business within the city. The owner of the vehicle or watercraft can
recover the vehicle or watercraft by paying the cost of towing charged by the
wrecker service and by paying the cost of impoundment charged by the owner of
the storage facility to which the vehicle or watercraft has been towed. If the
owner of the vehicle or watercraft does not recover it from the storage
facility the vehicle will be treated as a vehicle or watercraft abandoned in
storage facility and it will be disposed of pursuant to the terms and
provisions of Tex. Transportation Code Chapter 683, Subchapter C.
(Ord. 449A, passed 10-14-2008)
§ 72.05 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to the criminal penalties and other remedial provisions provided
in the Code and by state law, the City Attorney or his or her designee may
enforce the provisions of the Code and this chapter through any and all civil
remedies available. In that event, persons against whom enforcement is sought
and against whom a civil remedy is granted shall also be liable for damages,
court costs, attorney's fees and all costs and expenses reasonably related to
the civil enforcement action.
(Ord. 449A, passed 10-14-2008)
§ 72.06 PROHIBITING PARKING IN PUBLIC ALLEYWAYS.
   (A)   Purpose; definitions.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to prohibit the parking of vehicles
and trailers, as defined herein, upon any public alleyway in the city not
expressly designated for a period of greater than one hour.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section:
         (a)   A VEHICLE shall be defined as a motorized conveyance intended to
move passengers or cargo over the land or water.
         (b)   A TRAILER shall be defined as a conveyance used to transport
[text missing].
         (c)   A BOAT TRAILER shall be defined as a trailer used to carry,
store or transport a boat, watercraft or other conveyance intended to be used
upon water, over the road.
         (d)   PARK shall refer to the instance of stopping in such a manner
that movement is deliberately inhibited.
         (e)   A PUBLIC ALLEYWAY shall be defined as an alley dedicated to the
public, a homeowners association, the City of Port Isabel or to Cameron County
on a subdivision plat recorded with the Cameron County Clerk.
   (B)   Prohibition.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to park,
cause to be parked or suffer to be parked, a boat trailer wholly or partly upon
a public right-of-way for a period of greater than six hours.
      (2)   It shall not be a defense to a violation of this provision if the
trailer has not moved more than 500 feet during the period of violation.
(Ord. 705, passed 6-28-2022) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING OF TRAILERS UPON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Purpose; definitions.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to prohibit the parking of trailers,
as defined herein, upon any public right-of-way in the city not expressly
designated for a period of greater than two hours.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section:
         (a)   A TRAILER shall be defined as a conveyance used to transport
cargo over the road by attachment to a vehicle.
         (b)   A VEHICLE shall be defined as a conveyance intended to move
passengers or cargo over the land or water.
         (c)   PARK shall refer to the instance of stopping in such a manner
that movement is deliberately inhibited.
         (d)   A PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall be defined as a street, alley,
easement or other property dedicated to the City of Port Isabel, Cameron County
or the State of Texas.
   (B)   Prohibition.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to park a
trailer wholly or partly upon a public right-of-way for a period of greater
than two hours.
      (2)   It shall be a defense to a violation of this section if the owner
of the trailer has a valid building permit issued by the City of Port Isabel,
provided that the trailer is not parked for more than 12 hours, or between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (3)   It shall not be a defense to a violation of this provision if the
trailer has not moved more than 500 feet during the period of violation.
   (C)   Towing. Upon notice by the code enforcement or police officer of not
less than 24 hours, a trailer violating the provisions of this section may be
towed from the city’s right-of-way and impounded, at the expense of the owner.
Such notice shall be given by affixing a notice to the trailer.
(Ord. 704, passed 6-28-2022; Am. Ord. 704-A, passed 12-19-2023) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who commits a criminal offense under this chapter will be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction will be punished by a fine in an
amount not to exceed $500 and not less than $50 per offense. Each calendar day,
or part of a day, in which a violation occurs will constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   A violation of §§
72.06 and
72.07 shall be a Class C misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 449A, passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 704, passed 6-28-2022; Am. Ord. 705,
passed 6-28-2022)
CHAPTER 73: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Prohibition
   
73.02   Vehicles with blocks, lugs, studs and other protuberances
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Commercial vehicle routes, see
Chapter 74, Schedule III
§ 73.01 PROHIBITION.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drive
or cause to be driven, or to operate or cause to be operated any commercial
motor vehicle, truck, truck-tractor, trailer or semi-trailer on the public
streets of the city, with the exception of the streets described in
Chapter 74, Schedule III, exceeding 7,000 pounds empty weight.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-5-1955; Ord. 406, passed 8-23-1982) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 VEHICLES WITH BLOCKS, LUGS, STUDS AND OTHER PROTUBERANCES.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person firm or corporation to
drive or cause to be driven, or to operate or cause to be operated, or run upon
any public street in the city any vehicle which has on its periphery any block,
log, stud, cleat, ridge, bead or any other protuberance of metal that shall
project more than one-fourth of an inch beyond the thread of traction surface
of the tire, unless the wheels are protected by bends, wooden blocks, skids or
some sufficient device to protect the street against injury by reason thereof.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall prevent the use of tractors or similar vehicles
with cleats on the driving wheels thereof on dirt or unimproved streets, or the
use of vehicles actually engaged at the time in construction or repair of
streets.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-5-1955; Ord. 406, passed 8-23-1982) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in
any sum not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-5-1955)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Traffic control devices
   
II.   Speed limits
   
III.   Commercial vehicle routes
   
IV.   One-way streets and alleys
   
V.   Prohibited turns
   
VI.   City parks
SCHEDULE I. TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Table of traffic control devices.
 
Location                      Device                          Ord. Date Passed
Intersection of State Highway
100, Gomez Street, Powers     Traffic signal                  129  4-20-1953
Street and Maxan
Intersection of south bound   Stop condition in effect at all 505  7-26-1988
Port Road and Ash Street      times every day
Intersection of West Monroe
Street and South Cisneros     4-way stop                      597A 10- -2006
Street
 
   (B)   Penalty for violating stop condition at intersection of Port Road and
Ash Street. Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
Ordinance 505 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $200 for each violation hereof and
each day the violation shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 129, passed 4-20-1953; Ord. 505, passed 7-26-1988; Ord. 597A, passed 10-
-2006)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
Location Speed Limit Ord Date Passed
Location                                                                       Speed      Ord  Date
                                                                               Limit           Passed
Port Road                                                                      20 mph     121A 1-8-
                                                                                               1979
State Highway 100 and Port Road 100
   Beginning at a point on the highway for the west city limit line, north a30 mph     343  11-11-
east to a point 225 feet northeast of the centerline of Garcia Street                          1974
                                                                               45 miles
                                                                               per hour
                                                                               for
                                                                               northeast
                                                                               bound           11-11-
   From the point to the northeast city limit lines                         traffic    343  1974
                                                                               and 40 mph
                                                                               for
                                                                               southwest
                                                                               bound
                                                                               traffic
The maximum school zone speed limit on State Highway 100 shall be as described below:
                                                                               20 mph
                                                                               when the
                                                                               flashing
                                                                               school
   Beginning at a point on State Highway 100, the point being 200 feet west speed zone      11-11-
the centerline of Island Avenue, east to a point 440 feet west of the          signs are  343  1974
centerline of Champion Avenue *                                                in
                                                                               operation;
                                                                               30 mph at
                                                                               all other
                                                                               times
*   The flashing school speed zone signs shall be in operation when school opens until class begins,
during the noon period and for a 30-minute period beginning at the close of school
School zones **                                                                20 mph     472  11-25-
                                                                                               1986
**   The above speed limit shall be in effect in these school zones from 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on
every day in which school classes are in session
Modern Venice Subdivision***
   All other public street, except those listed                             20 mph     598  7-27-
                                                                                               1999
   Bass Avenue                                                              20 mph     598  7-27-
                                                                                               1999
   Harbor Island Drive                                                      20 mph     598  7-27-
                                                                                               1999
   Island Avenue                                                            30 mph     598  7-27-
                                                                                               1999
   Pompano Avenue                                                           20 mph     598  7-27-
                                                                                               1999
   Tarpon Avenue                                                            20 mph     598  7-27-
                                                                                               1999
   Trout Avenue                                                             20 mph     598  7-27-
                                                                                               1999
***   Any violation of this restriction shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed
$200
 
(Ord. 121A, passed 1-8-1979; Ord. 343, passed 11-11-1974; Ord. 472, passed 11-
25-1986; Ord. 598, passed 7-27-1999)
SCHEDULE III. COMMERCIAL VEHICLE ROUTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drive or cause
to be driven, or operate or cause to be operated, any commercial motor vehicle,
truck, truck-tractor, trailer or semi-trailer having a gross operating weight
of 50,000 pounds or more over any street or streets, alley or alleys, within
the corporate limits of the city, except hereinafter specifically designated
streets, to-wit:
State Highway 100 from its intersection with the city to the intersection of
Maxan and Garcia Street
Maxan Street
Garcia Street from its intersection with Maxan Street to its intersection with
the old Causeway Approach
South Shore Drive from its intersection with Highway 100 to its intersection
with the old Causeway Approach
Port Road from Highway 100 to the Turning Basin
The intersection of Second Street and Highway 100 to the south right-of-way
city limit line of Illinois Avenue
The intersection of Third Street and State Highway 100 to the south right-of-
way city limit line of Illinois Avenue
The intersection of Fourth Street and Highway 100 to the south right-of-way
city limit line of Illinois Avenue
Other streets and alleys may be traveled upon by the vehicles when necessary
for purposes of furniture moving and delivery and construction materials, but
then only on the shortest feasible route from its intersection with any of the
streets above designated to the place of destination or delivery
 
(Ord. 164, passed 12-5-1955; Ord. 406, passed 8-23-1982)
SCHEDULE IV. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
 
Street                        Portion                           Ord Date Passed
Alley within Block 35 between Vehicular traffic to move in an   388 3-24-1980
Longoria and Manautou Streets easterly direction
                              Entrance to street is to be at
Bahia Drive, entire street    the north entrance, with its exit 380 12-11-1978
                              at the South Drive
Garcia Street                 From Maxan Street to State        579 12-10-1996
                              Highway 100
Maxan Street                  From Tarnava Street to Garcia     579 12-10-1996
                              Street
                              From its intersection with Maxan
Tarnava Street                Street to its intersection with   305 3-24-1969
                              Powers Street
 
(Ord. 305, passed 3-24-1969; Ord. 380, passed 12-11-1978; Ord. 388, passed 3-
24-1980; Ord. 579, passed 12-10-1996)
SCHEDULE V. PROHIBITED TURNS.
   (A)   Prohibited turns.
 
Street          Prohibition                                   Ord Date Passed
Manautou Street No left turn between Queen Isabella Boulevard 371 1-9-1978
                and Maxan Street
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating division (A) shall upon conviction be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in any sum of not less than $5 nor
more than $200 plus other costs.
(Ord. 371, passed 1-9-1978)
SCHEDULE VI. CITY PARKS.
   (A)   No motor vehicles shall be allowed to operate on those areas known as
Washington Park and Laguna Madre Park.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person operates a motor vehicle on
those areas known as Washington Park and Laguna Madre Parks in violation of
this schedule.
   (C)   Those areas known as Washington Park and Laguna Madre Park shall be
tow-away zones. Any vehicles in violation of division (B) of this schedule
shall be subject to being towed away at the expense of the owner of the towed
motor vehicle. The city shall post signs informing the public of the tow-away
zone.
(Ord. 462A, passed 12-9-1986)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking restricted
   
II.   Modern Venice Subdivision
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTED.
 
Street              Direction            Restriction           Ord. Date Passed
                                         Parking restricted
                                         for a period of time
                                         longer than 60
                    West side between    minutes at a time
Tarnava Street*     Maxan Street and     between the hours of  144  3-1-1954
                    Powers Street        5:00 a.m. and 6:00
                                         p.m. on any day
                                         except legal holidays
                                         and Sundays of each
                                         week
                                         Parking restricted
                                         for a period of time
                                         longer than 60
                    In or on the east    minutes at a time
Tarnava Street*     side between Maxan   between the hours of  144  3-1-1954
                    Street and the alley 5:00 a.m. and 6:00
                    traversing Block 56  p.m. on any day
                                         except legal holidays
                                         and Sundays of each
                                         week
                    North Side and south Between 8:00 a.m. and
                    side between         4:00 p.m.; on any day
State Highway 100** Champion Avenue and  except Saturdays and  329  11-12-1973
                    Island Avenue        Sundays; from August
                                         15 to May 31
                    South side between
Polk Street**       Harbor Light and                           356  11-22-1976
                    Gomez Streets
                    Southeast side form  Between 8:00 a.m. and
                    the corner of City   4:00 p.m.; on any day
South Shore Drive** Block 91 or corner   except Saturdays and  357A 6-25-1979
                    of Washington Street Sundays
                    to Adams Street
East South Shore    West side between
Drive**             Washington Street                          383  6- -1979
                    and Hickman Avenue
 
Street Direction Restriction Ord. Date Passed
Street               Direction            Restriction          Ord. Date Passed
                     East or west side
                     between State
Island Avenue**      Highway 100 to the                        410  9-29-1982
                     north side of Tarpon
                     Avenue
                     East side between
South Shore Drive**  Hickman and                               419  9-12-1983
                     Washington Streets
                                          Between the hours of
                     North side from its  7:30 a.m. to 4:30
                     intersection with    p.m., Monday thru
Oklahoma Street**    Second Street, west  Friday and in the    419  9-12-1983
                     of the site of       months of September
                     buses' entrance      to the end of May of
                                          each year
                     Beginning at the
                     intersection of
                     Oklahoma and Third
                     and proceeding
Third Street***      northward on Third                        422  11-28-1983
                     Street to the
                     intersection of
                     Michigan and Third
                     Street, on the east
                     side of Third Street
                     Beginning at the
                     intersection of
                     Cisneros Street and
                     South Shore Drive
South Shore Drive*** and proceeding                            422  11-28-1983
                     eastward on the
                     north side of South
                     Shore Drive to its
                     intersection with
                     Chapa Street
From a point 120
feet south of the
intersection of the
south right-of-way
line of Highway 100
and west right-of-
way line of Port
Road then in a
southerly direction                                            442  12-4-1984
along the Port Road
right-of-way line to
a point being the
intersection of the
west right-of-way
line of Port Road
and the north right-
of-way of North
Hockaday Street**
From a point being
the south right-of-
way line of Maxan
Street and the west
right-of-way line of
Manatou Street in a                                            442  12-4-1984
westerly direction
along the Maxan
Street right-of-way
line for a period of
100 feet**
 
 
Street               Direction           Restriction           Ord. Date Passed
                     From a point of the
Second Street**      northerly direction                       569  2-13-1996
                     from Highway 100 to
                     North Shore Drive
Beginning at and
adjacent to the rear
property line of Lot
l, Block 77 on Adams
Street, thence to
the corner of Lot
One, Block 77, on                        Restricted and
Adams Street, thence                     limited parking time  326  3-26-1973
south adjacent to                        of 2 hours continuous
Lots 1, l-A, 2, 2-                       parking
A and 3 ending at a
point adjacent to
and on the south
corner of Lot 3-A on
South Shore
Drive****
*   Any person violating this restriction shall upon conviction be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in any sum not less than $1 nor more than
$200
**   Any person violating any of this restriction shall upon conviction be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in any sum of not more than $200
***   The penalty for violation of this restriction shall be a fine of not less
than $10 per violation
****   Any person cited with violation of this restriction shall be subject to
penalties assessed according to other parking violations in the city, not to
exceed $5 per violation
 
(Ord. 144, passed 3-1-1954; Ord. 326, passed 3-26-1973; Ord. 329, passed 11-12-
1973; Ord. 356, passed 11-22-1976; Ord. 357, passed 11-22-1976; Ord. 357A,
passed 6-25-1979; Ord. 383, passed 6- -1979; Ord. 410, passed 9-29-1982; Ord.
419, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 422, passed 11-28-1983; Ord. 442, passed 12-4-1984;
Ord. 569, passed 2-13-1996)
SCHEDULE II. MODERN VENICE SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   All streets of the Modern Venice Subdivision, including Island Avenue,
shall be subject to this restriction.
   (B)   The term PARK or PARKING means to halt an occupied or unoccupied
vehicle, other than temporarily while loading or unloading property or
passengers. The term VEHICLE means a device that can be used to transport or
draw persons or property on a street. The term VEHICLE includes trailers or any
device designed to be drawn by a vehicle.
   (C)   Parking on Island Avenue shall be prohibited.
   (D)   Parking on Tarpon Avenue, Pompano Avenue, Bass Avenue, Trout Avenue
and Harbor Island Drive and all other public streets in the Modern Venice
Subdivision other than Island Avenue shall be restricted to one side of the
street. Where not otherwise prohibited in this restriction or state law,
parking is prohibited where indicated by sign or painted curb. All parking
shall be with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within 12
inches of the right-hand curb or edge of the street.
   (E)   Parking on the street within ten feet of a mailbox between 10:00 a.m.
and 3:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, shall be prohibited.
   (F)   Parking which blocks or interferes with normal vehicular access to
private driveways shall be prohibited.
   (G)   Parking which blocks access to garbage receptacles or parking which
interferes with the regularly scheduled collection of garbage from garbage
receptacles shall be prohibited.
   (H)   Any violation of this schedule shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine not to exceed $200.
(Ord. 598, passed 7-27-1999)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ALARM SYSTEMS
         
91.   ANIMALS
         
92.   BEACH ACCESS AND DUNE PROTECTION PLAN
         
93.   CITY CEMETERY
         
94.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
         
95.   EXCAVATIONS AND CURB CUTS
         
96.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
97.   LIBRARY
         
98.   CITY MUSEUM
         
99.   NUISANCES
         
100.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
101.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
102.   WATERCRAFT
         
103.   FAIR HOUSING
         
104.   EVENTS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 90: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Short title
   
90.02   Definitions
Permits and Procedures
   
90.15   Permit required; application; transferability; false statements
   
90.16   Alarm company registration
   
90.17   Proper alarm system operation and maintenance
   
90.18   Reporting of alarm signals
   
90.19   Indirect alarm reporting
   
90.20   Automatic telephone alarms not permitted
   
90.21   Alarm system operating instructions
   
90.22   Alarm dispatch records
   
90.23   System performance records
   
90.24   Service fee
   
90.25   Revocation of alarm permit
   
90.26   Appeal from denial
   
90.27   Protection of financial institutions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This shall be known as the Burglary and Robbery and Related Emergency Alarm
Ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT OF GOD. An inevitable accident, or a casualty; any accident produced by
any physical cause which is irresistible, such as lightning, tempest, perils of
the seas and inundation or earthquake; not preventable by human care, skill or
foresight, but resulting from natural causes.
   ALARM COMPANY. Any person engaged in the activity of selling, leasing,
renting, installing, inspecting, maintaining, repairing, monitoring and/or
responding to alarm systems within the city. An ALARM COMPANY in this instance
shall not include any business which sells on a retail basis from a fixed
location or that manufactures or distributes alarm equipment at wholesale,
unless the business also installs, services, monitors and/or responds to alarm
systems within the city.
   ALARM NOTIFICATION. A notification intended to summon the police, which is
designed either to be initiated purposely by a person or by an alarm system
that responds to a stimulus characteristic of unauthorized intrusion.
   ALARM SITE. A single premises or location (one street address) served by an
alarm system that is under the control of one owner.
   ALARM SYSTEM.
      (1)   A device or system that emits, transmits or relays a signal
intended to summon, or that would reasonably be expected to summon, police
services of the city, including, but not limited to local alarms.
      (2)   ALARM SYSTEM does not include:
         (a)   An alarm installed on a vehicle unless the vehicle is
permanently located at a site;
         (b)   An alarm designated to alert only the inhabitants of a premises
which upon activation cannot be seen or heard from a distance greater than ten
feet from the protected premises; or
         (c)   An ALARM SYSTEM owned or operated by the Police Department,
including but not limited to alarm surveillance equipment used outside of the
Police Department facilities.
      (3)   ALARM SYSTEMS as defined and used herein are classified as follows.
         (a)   CLASS A SYSTEMS. Upon activation, provide for signaling to an
alarm monitoring facility owned, operated or utilized by an alarm company,
regardless of its location.
         (b)   CLASS B SYSTEMS. Upon activation, cause an external signaling
device of any type to be seen or heard from beyond ten feet of the protected
premises, or any other type of alarm system which upon activation as its
purpose the summoning of police response.
         (c)   CLASS C SYSTEMS. Upon activation, provide for direct signaling
to a console or other receiving equipment located for such purpose at any
emergency department of the city.
   CHIEF. The Chief of Police or his or her authorized representative.
   CRIMINAL OFFENSE. A criminal offense as defined in the State Penal Code.
   FALSE ALARM NOTIFICATION. An alarm notification responded to by the Police
Department, when the responding officer finds no evidence of unauthorized
intrusion, attempted unauthorized intrusion, robbery, attempted robbery or an
attempt to take a person hostage, unless the false alarm notification is caused
by a power outage or act of God which is beyond the control of the permit
holder and the condition can be verified by the permit holder.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The person designated in the permit application who shall be
the owner or lawful tenant of the alarm site or his or her authorized
representative.
   SPECIAL TRUNK LINE. A telephone line leading into the communications center
of the Police Department that is for the primary purpose of receiving emergency
messages that originate from automatic protection devices and are transmitted
directly or through an intermediary.
   USER'S RESPONDING AGENT.  A person designated in the alarm permit
application as provided for in §
90.15.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986)
PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
§ 90.15 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; TRANSFERABILITY; FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she operates or causes to be
operated an alarm system without an alarm permit or does not comply with the
terms and conditions of the permit or application therefor, issued by the
Chief. A separate permit is required for each alarm site.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a completed application form, the Chief shall issue an
alarm permit to an applicant unless the applicant has failed to pay a service
fee assessed under §
90.24 or has had an alarm permit for an alarm site revoked, due to the
violations enumerated in this chapter or for any other revocations or denial
permitted under any other chapter granting or denying permits.
   (C)   Any existing person who has operated an existing alarm system within
the city prior to the effective date of this chapter shall have 30 days after
the effective date to comply.
   (D)   Application for alarm permit shall include the following:
      (1)   Any alarm permit fees as provided for herein under Class B or Class
C permits;
      (2)   The names and relationship of each responsible person in control of
the premise;
      (3)   The street address, location directions and a description of the
protected premise;
      (4)   Information relative to the alarm system type and means of alarm
notification;
      (5)   The nature of any business type account and information relative to
the normal business hours of same;
      (6)   The name, address and local telephone number of any alarm company;
      (7)   The names and local telephone numbers of a minimum of three user's
responding agents for Class A, Class B and Class C systems who have agreed and
are reauthorized to:
         (a)   Receive notification of all respective alarm systems relative to
the alarm site;
         (b)   Respond, when summoned to do so by the Police Department of the
city, within a 30-minute period of any alarm notification;
         (c)   Authorize and arrange for the repair of the alarm system as
required; and
         (d)   Other information required by the Chief which is necessary for
the enforcement of this chapter. For Class A systems the information relating
to the user's responding agents shall be provided by the alarm company.
   (E)   Permit holder's fees shall be as follows.
      (1)   Under Class A alarm permits, where it shall be the duty and
responsibility of the alarm company upon contractual agreement between the
permit holder and alarm company to monitor, maintain, notify, coordinate and/or
provide for any requested alarm response relative to the duties of the user's
responding agent there shall be no annual fee required.
      (2)   Under Class B alarm permits, where the maintaining of current
user's responding agent information, as well as where the notification and
coordination of the user's responding agents during alarm situations falls upon
the Police Department of the city, an annual permit fee of $10 shall apply. The
annual Class B permit holder's fee shall offset the city's additional
administrative costs.
      (3)   Under Class C alarm permits, where in addition to the duties
relative to Class B permits, the Police Department of the city is required to
also monitor incoming alarm notifications for the Class C alarm systems, an
annual permit fee of $100 shall apply. The annual Class C permit holder's fee
shall offset the city's administrative costs.
      (4)   Federal and state agencies shall not be required to pay the permit
fee as a requirement for issuance, however a permit must be obtained where
applicable.
   (F)   All annual alarm permits shall expire on the last day of each year
regardless of the date of issuance and shall be renewable from year to year as
required by the Chief on or before the first day of each year thereafter. All
alarm permits shall be nonrefundable, nontransferable and payable yearly in
advance. Any alarm permit obtained subsequent to the first day of each year but
before July 1 shall pay the full amount of the applicable permit fee, and any
alarm permit obtained after July 1 shall pay one-half of the applicable permit
fee.
   (G)   Renewal of Class A alarm permits shall be the responsibility of the
alarm company and the permit holder. Renewal of Class B or Class C alarm
permits, as well as the payment of pertaining fees, shall be the responsibility
of the permit holder.
   (H)   Any false statement of a material matter made by an applicant for the
purpose of obtaining an alarm permit shall be sufficient cause for refusal to
issue a permit.
   (I)   An alarm permit shall not be transferred to another person. A permit
holder shall notify the Chief, in writing, of any change that alters any
information listed on the permit application within ten business days of the
change. No fee will be assessed for the changes.
   (J)   Any fee which may be due and payable under the provisions of this Code
owed by an applicant must be paid before a permit may be issued or renewed
under the provisions of this division.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 ALARM COMPANY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All alarm companies wishing to operate within the city limits of the
city shall be required to be registered as such with the Chief.
   (B)   All alarm company registrations shall require proof of being licensed
to operate in the state as an alarm company under the provisions of the state
private investigators and private security agencies act, Vernon's Ann. Civ. St.
Article 4413(29bb).
   (C)   Any alarm company which violates this division shall be subject to a
$100 fine per occurrence, unless proper registration occurs within a ten-day
period after receiving notification of any violations.
   (D)   All alarm company registrations shall be made on forms provided by the
Chief and shall include the following information:
      (1)   The full name, business address and telephone number of the alarm
company;
      (2)   The license number as issued to the alarm company by the state
board of private investigators and private security agencies;
      (3)   The name, home address and telephone number of each owner, officer,
partner or stockholder holding 25% or more interest in the alarm company; and
      (4)   A description of services made available and offered within the
city relating to the sale, installation, servicing, monitoring and/or testing
of alarm systems and alarm response services.
   (E)   Alarm company registrations shall be renewable yearly on the first day
of each year and shall be nontransferable. Updating of information is required
as it occurs and the updating shall be the sole responsibility of the alarm
company. No fees shall be required upon registration or on any renewal thereof.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 PROPER ALARM SYSTEM OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   A permit holder shall:
      (1)   Maintain premises containing an alarm system in a manner that
ensures proper operation of the alarm system;
      (2)   Maintain the alarm site in a manner that will minimize false alarm
notification; and
      (3)   Respond or cause a representative to respond within 30 minutes when
notified by the city to repair or inactivate a malfunctioning alarm site, or to
provide security for the alarm site.
   (B)   A person in control of a Class B system shall adjust the mechanism or
cause the mechanism to be adjusted so that an alarm signal will sound for not
longer than 15 minutes after being activated.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 REPORTING OF ALARM SIGNALS.
   A permit holder shall not allow alarm signals to be reported through a
relaying intermediary that does not comply with the requirements of this
chapter and any rules and regulations promulgated by the Chief.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 INDIRECT ALARM REPORTING.
   A person who is engaged in the business of relaying alarm notifications to
the Police Department of the city shall:
   (A)   Report alarms only over special trunk lines designated by the Chief;
and
   (B)   Communicate alarm notifications to the Police Department in a manner
and form determined by the Chief.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.20 AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE ALARMS NOT PERMITTED.
   An alarm system which transmits a telephonic recorded message over telephone
lines shall not be permitted and is in violation of this chapter, provided that
manually operated recording systems utilized by handicapped persons are hereby
authorized, if the system is designated and approved in the alarm permit.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 ALARM SYSTEM OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS.
   A permit holder shall maintain at each alarm site, a complete set of written
operating instructions for each alarm system. Special codes, combinations or
passwords need not be included in these instructions.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.22 ALARM DISPATCH RECORDS.
   The police responding to a dispatch call resulting from a burglary, robbery,
personal hostage or robbery alarm notification shall record information as
necessary to permit the Chief to maintain records, including, but not limited,
to the following information:
   (A)   Identification of the permit holder;
   (B)   Identification of the alarm site;
   (C)   Arrival time and dispatch received time;
   (D)   Time of day and date;
   (E)   Weather conditions;
   (F)   Area and subarea (business; residential);
   (G)   Name of the permit holder's representative on premises, if any; and
   (H)   The responding police officer shall indicate on this dispatch record
whether the alarm notification was caused by a criminal offense.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.23 SYSTEM PERFORMANCE RECORDS.
   If there is reason to believe that an alarm system is not being used or
maintained in a manner that ensures proper operation, therefore creating false
alarm notifications, the Chief may require a conference with the alarm permit
holder who is responsible for maintenance of the alarm system to review the
circumstances of each false alarm notification. If an alarm site emits multiple
false alarm notifications within a 24-hour period, it will be the
responsibility of the permit holder to arrange for repair of the alarm system.
If the permit holder can prove and submit in writing, within four working days
of repair, verification of a mechanical malfunction of the alarm system, then
all multiple false alarm notifications will be combined and will be counted as
one false alarm notification for the purposes of §
90.24. If the alarm site continues to emit more than five false alarms within
the same 24-hour period, the Police Department may only respond to the first
five such false alarm notifications, and the sole responsibility of the
security of the alarm site shall be by the permit holder.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.24 SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below of this section, the
permit holder shall pay a service fee of $50 for each false alarm notification
emitted from an alarm site that is in excess of six alarms within the existing
calendar year. The permit holder shall pay the service fee to the Chief within
ten days of written notice of the service fee.
   (B)   No service fee will be assessed during the first 60 days on newly
installed alarm systems, and alarm notifications during that period will not be
counted in determining when a service fee will be assessed.
   (C)   No service fee will be assessed against a permit holder which is an
agency of the federal government or the state in which case the Chief is
authorized to take appropriate administrative remedies relating to the
requirement of repair or deactivation or non-response to or of the alarm
system.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.25 REVOCATION OF ALARM PERMIT.
   (A)   The Chief shall revoke an alarm permit if he or she determines that:
      (1)   There is a false statement of a material matter in the application
for a permit;
      (2)   The permit holder has violated §§
90.17,
90.18,
90.19,
90.20,
90.21 or
90.23; and
      (3)   The permit holder has failed to make timely payment of a service
fee assessed under §
90.24.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she operates an alarm system
during the period in which his or her alarm permit is revoked.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.26 APPEAL FROM DENIAL.
   In granting or denying a license, the Chief shall be guided by the terms of
this chapter. In the event an application for license hereunder is disapproved
by the Chief, the applicant shall have the right to appeal to the City Manager
by filing written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten days from the
date of written notification of the action. The City Manager shall review the
action of the Chief and may impose certain conditions to the retention of the
permit. In any event, the decision of the City Manager shall be final and
nonappealable.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.27 PROTECTION OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   A financial institution required to have an alarm system pursuant to
the provisions of the Bank Protection Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. § 1882) may
install a special trunk line, with the permission of the Chief, directly to the
Police Department for the purpose of reporting burglaries, robberies and other
related emergencies. If an arrangement is made, all other requirements of this
chapter must be met. The financial institution shall execute a letter of
agreement with the city permitting the installation of all necessary equipment
on an indicator panel monitored in the communications division of the Police
Department. The installation must be accomplished at the financial
institution's expense.
   (B)   The Chief shall have the right, at reasonable times and upon oral
notice, to inspect the alarm system at a private or institutional alarm site
and require necessary repairs or improvements. If the Chief finds that the
alarm system continually fails to operate properly or be operated properly, he
or she may terminate the privilege to have equipment and indicators in the
communications center of the Police Department and require prompt removal of
the equipment at the expense of the financial institution.
   (C)   The financial institution at the request of the Chief, at its sole
expense, shall make arrangements to provide service for the alarm system on a
24-hour basis, seven days a week. In no event shall the city become liable for
charges for repairs and maintenance.
   (D)   The financial institution may cancel its special trunk line service
with the city at any time by giving the city written notice through the Chief
and, at its expense, removing its equipment indicators from the monitor panel
in the communications center within 30 days from notice.
   (E)   The Chief may require any change, modernization or consolidation of
alarm signaling equipment that is advisable according to sound practices of
alarm system science or trade. In no event shall the city become liable for
charges for these changes. The changes will be effected within a reasonable
time and at the expense of the alarm user.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of a
separate offense for each day or portion of a day during which the violation is
committed, continued or permitted, and each offense is punishable by a fine of
not more than $200, but not less than $50 upon the first conviction and not
less than $75 upon the second and subsequent convictions.
   (B)   In addition to prohibiting or requiring certain conduct of
individuals, it is the intent of this chapter to hold a corporation,
partnership or an aggregate of individuals criminally responsible for acts or
omissions performed by an agent acting on behalf of the corporation,
partnership, or an aggregate of individuals, and within the scope of his or her
employment.
(Ord. 460, passed 2-11-1986)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Definitions
Rabies Control
   
91.015   Vaccinations
   
91.016   Certificate of vaccination
   
91.017   Rabies tag
   
91.018   Duplicate tags
   
91.019   Proof
   
91.020   Harboring unvaccinated animals
Reporting Bites from Animals Susceptible to Rabies; Related Procedures
   
91.035   Duty to report
   
91.036   Suspected rabies
   
91.037   Confinement of animals
   
91.038   Removal of animal from confinement
   
91.039   Procedures for other animal bites
   
91.040   Confinement during rabies emergency
Animal Identification
   
91.055   Identification tags
   
91.056   Microchips required
Public Nuisance
   
91.070   Animals running at large
   
91.071   Disturbing noises
   
91.072   Maintenance of premises
   
91.073   Pick up and disposal of excrement
   
91.074   Confinement during estrus
   
91.075   Injured animals
   
91.076   Other nuisances
Dangerous Animals
   
91.090   Possession of dangerous animals
   
91.091   Guard dogs
Impounded Animals
   
91.105   Impoundment
   
91.106   Animal shelter
   
91.107   Removal of animals from animal shelter
   
91.108   Removal of biting animals for confinement
   
91.109   Disposition of impounded unlicensed animals
   
91.110   Disposition of impounded animal being held on complaint
Inhumane Treatment of Animals
   
91.125   Inhumane treatment of animals
Kenneling of Animals
   
91.140   General
   
91.141   Keeping of animals; space and distance requirements
   
91.142   Keeping of swine
Permits
   
91.155   Permit requirements and fees
   
91.156   License and permit issuance and revocation
Safety Provision
   
91.170   Interference with the animal control supervisor or authorized
representatives
   
91.171   Appointment of an advisory committee
Spaying and Neutering of Pets
   
91.180   General
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. All domesticated and undomesticated creatures except humans.
   ANIMAL IDENTIFICATION. Any tag worn by an animal which clearly defines the
owner and the owner's address.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A place operated by the city for the detention of animals as
prescribed by law.
   CAT. A domestic feline of either sex, including one neutered or spayed.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal that commits an unprovoked attack upon a person
on public or private property or that attacks, threatens to attack or
terrorizes a person on public property or in a public place.
   DOG. A domestic canine of either sex, including one neutered or spayed.
   HARBORING. The act of keeping and caring for an animal or of providing a
premise to which the animal returns for food, shelter or care for a period of
three days.
   KENNEL. Any building, lot, yard, shed, cage or other area on or in which
three or more animals, more than eight weeks old are kept; or any building,
lot, yard, shed, cage or other area on or in which one or more animals are
housed or boarded for pay.
   LEASH. A rope, cord, strap, chain or strand attached to an animal in a
manner as to enable a person to control and restrain the movements of the
animal, the control and restraint including, but not being limited to,
preventing the animal from contacting another person or trespassing upon
private property or restricted public property.
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. Any veterinarian licensed by any state of the United
States, and in addition, if practicing in this state, licensed by the State
Board of Veterinarian Examiners.
   OFFICER. Any official of the city deputized as such with authority to carry
out and perform the various acts provided to be performed by city officers
under this chapter.
   OWNER. Any person who has right of property in an animal or who harbors an
animal or allows an animal to remain about his or her premises for a period of
three days.
   PET SHOP. Any person, partnership or corporation, whether operated
separately or in connection with another business enterprise that buys or sells
any species of animal.
   PREMISES OF THE OWNER. Refers to those private property premises under the
occupancy or control of a person by ownership, lease or other agreement.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals that unreasonably annoy humans,
endanger the life or health of other animals or persons, or substantially
interfere with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment of
life or property.
   RABIES VACCINATION. The vaccination of an animal with an anti-rabies vaccine
approved by the State Department of Health and administered by a veterinarian
licensed by the state.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. An animal off the premises of the owner and not under the
physical, visible or audible control of the owner or his or her authorized
representative. An animal intruding upon the property of another person other
than the owner shall be termed RUNNING AT LARGE. An animal within an automobile
or other vehicle of its owner shall be deemed RUNNING AT LARGE.
   STRAY ANIMAL. Any animal for which there is no identifiable owner or
harborer.
   VACCINATION. A protective inoculation against rabies by inoculation with
anti-rabies vaccine recognized and approved by the United States Department of
Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, given in amount sufficient to provide
immunity from rabies.
   VACCINATION CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian for
presentation to the Health Department of the city as a condition precedent to
granting of animal license.
   WILD ANIMAL. All species of animals which exist in a natural unconfined
state and are usually not domesticated.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483B, passed 1-
9-1996; Ord. 483D, passed 8-27-1996)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 91.015 VACCINATIONS.
   Every owner of an animal three months of age or older shall have the animal
vaccinated (if applicable) against rabies. All animals vaccinated at three
months of age or older shall be vaccinated again at one year of age and
annually thereafter. Routine vaccination should be performed during the months
of January and February during each calendar year. Any person moving into the
city from a location outside the city shall comply with this section within 30
days after having moved into the city. If the animal has inflicted a bite on
any person or another animal within the last ten days, the owner of the animal
shall report the fact to the veterinarian or city health official, and no
rabies vaccine shall be administered until after the ten day observation
period.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996)
§ 91.016 CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION.
   (A)   Upon vaccination, the veterinarian shall execute and furnish to the
owner of the animal as evidence thereof, a certificate upon a form furnished by
the city. The veterinarian shall retain a duplicate copy and one copy thereof
shall be filed with the Health Department. The original rabies vaccination
certificate shall be retained by the owner for inspection by any person charged
with the enforcement of this chapter. The certificate shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the
vaccinated animal;
      (2)   The date of vaccination;
      (3)   The type of rabies vaccine used; and
      (4)   The year and number of the rabies tag.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make use of a stolen,
counterfeit or forged rabies vaccination certificate, rabies vaccination tag or
other form.
   (C)   Rabies certificates and tags are not transferable and it shall be
unlawful for any person to use any rabies certificate or rabies tag for any
animal other than the animal for which the certificate and/or tag was
originally issued.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.017 RABIES TAG.
   Concurrent with the issuance and delivery of the certificate of vaccination
referred to in §
91.016, the owner of the animal shall cause to be attached to the collar or
harness of the vaccinated animal a metal tag, serially numbered to correspond
with the vaccination certificate number and bearing the year of issuance and
the name of the jurisdiction and state. The tag shall be worn by the animal at
all times.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.018 DUPLICATE TAGS.
   In the event of loss or destruction of the original tag provided in §
91.017, the owner of the animal shall obtain a duplicate tag. Certificate shall
indicate that it is a duplicate of the original.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996)
§ 91.019 PROOF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or harbors a vaccinated animal
to fail or refuse to exhibit his or her copy of the certificate of vaccination
upon demand to any person charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.020 HARBORING UNVACCINATED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor any animal which has not been
vaccinated against rabies, as provided herein, or which cannot be identified as
having a current vaccination certificate. There shall be a fine of $100 for
unvaccinated animals.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
REPORTING BITES FROM ANIMALS SUSCEPTIBLE TO RABIES; RELATED PROCEDURES
§ 91.035 DUTY TO REPORT.
   Any person having knowledge that an animal has bitten a human shall
immediately report the incident to the City Health Officer or Animal Control
Officer or the State Department of Health or practitioner who treats a person
or persons for the bites shall within 12 hours report the treatment to the City
Health Officer, Animal Control Officer, or the State Department of Health,
giving name, age, sex and precise location of the bitten person or persons and
any other information as the officer or agency may require.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996)
§ 91.036 SUSPECTED RABIES.
   (A)   Any veterinarian who clinically diagnoses rabies in a domestic or wild
animal shall immediately report the incident to the City Health Officer or
Animal Control Officer or the State Department of Health stating precisely
where the animal may be found.
   (B)   If a known or suspected rabid animal bites or attacks a domestic
animal, the incident shall be reported as required above.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996)
§ 91.037 CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS.
   Any animal which has bitten a person shall be observed for a period of ten
days from the date of the bite. The procedure and place of observation shall be
designated by the investigating officer or responsible agency. Confinement
shall be at the expense of the owner. Stray animals whose owners cannot be
located shall be confined at the animal shelter or a place designated by the
City Health Official. The owner of any animal that has been reported to have
inflicted a bite on any person shall on demand produce the animal for
impoundment, as prescribed in this section, and each day of the refusal shall
constitute a separate and individual violation.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.038 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL FROM CONFINEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove from any place of confinement
any animal which has been confined as authorized, without the consent of the
impounding agency.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.039 PROCEDURES FOR OTHER ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   Procedures concerning bites from other animals shall be discussed with
the City Health Officer, Animal Control Officer, or the State Department of
Health for proper disposition.
   (B)   Any wild animal which has bitten a person should be caught and killed
and the brain immediately submitted to a qualified laboratory for rabies
examination.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996)
§ 91.040 CONFINEMENT DURING RABIES EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever a danger of rabies is detected, the Mayor shall issue a
proclamation requiring all animals within the city limits to be properly
confined and it shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to fail to comply
with the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be published and broadcast for public
information.
(Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-27-1996)
ANIMAL IDENTIFICATION
§ 91.055 IDENTIFICATION TAGS.
   (A)   (1)   All animals required to wear a rabies tag shall also be required
to wear a tag identifying the owner and the owner's address. The purpose of the
tag is to help prevent the animal from being confined at the shelter. It is
recommended that the reverse side of the rabies tag be engraved with owner's
name and address.
      (2)   Reasonable attempts will be made by the Animal Control Officer to
return the animal to its owner using the identification tag.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer shall, at his or her discretion, issue a
warning or citation for violation of running at large.
   (C)   If the animal is wearing an identification tag but is not wearing a
rabies tag the animal shall be held at the animal shelter until proof of rabies
vaccination can be made.
(Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-27-1996)
§ 91.056 MICROCHIPS REQUIRED. 
   (A)   The owner of any dog or cat, four months old or older, living in the
city must have a radio-frequency-identification (“RFID”) microchip implanted in
their dog or cat. The fee for any city-performed RFID microchip implant shall
be $25.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, MICROCHIP is defined as an
identifying integrated circuit placed under the skin of a dog or cat for the
purpose of identifying the owner of the animal.
   (C)   If any dog or cat required by this section to have a microchip
implanted is not in compliance on the effective date hereof, the owner will
have 90 days from the effective date to comply with the requirements of this
section.
   (D)   All dogs and cats impounded under §§
91.105 et seq. shall be implanted with microchip identification before being
released from impoundment to their owners, and the implant fee must be paid
before the animal will be released.
   (E)   All dogs and cats adopted through the Isabel Y. Garcia Animal Shelter
must be implanted with microchip identification, and the implant fee paid must
be before the animal will be released to the adoptive owner.
(Ord. 483-F, passed 9-11-2012)
PUBLIC NUISANCE
§ 91.070 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit the animals
to run at large within the city. The animal may be allowed beyond the premises
of the owner when leashed to the owner or other person authorized by the
keeper.
   (B)   Also, nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit the
owner of any animal from escorting the animal properly leashed, to premises
other than those of the owner for purposes of exercise, visitation,
companionship, participation in shows and exhibitions, or treatment and care by
duly constituted veterinarian or kennel for hire to the public; or from
transporting the animal in an automobile or other vehicle; or from training or
exhibiting the animal without leash on private premises or public shows and
exhibition premises, under conditions where the unleashed animals are otherwise
restrained from leaving the premises; nothing herein contained is to be
construed as constituting the authorization of the invasion of privacy rights
of any person.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.071 DISTURBING NOISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to harbor any dog, cat, bird, parrot or
other animal if by any sound or cry or other activity it shall disturb the
peace, comfort and property of the inhabitants of the neighborhood, and the
disturbance is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.072 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   Every person keeping an animal within the city limits shall maintain the
area used or occupied by the animals in a sanitary manner at all times and the
area shall be kept free of offensive odors, flies, rodents and other pests.
(Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.073 PICK UP AND DISPOSAL OF EXCREMENT.
   Every person keeping an animal within the city limits shall pick up and
properly dispose of any solid excrement from the animal whether on public or
private property. A $50 fee shall be imposed on those people who fail to
comply.
(Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.074 CONFINEMENT DURING ESTRUS.
   Any unspayed female animal in the stage of estrus (heat) shall be confined
during the period of time in a house, building or secure enclosure and the area
of enclosure shall be so constructed that no other animal can gain access to
the confined animal. Owners who do not comply shall be ordered to remove the
animal in heat to a boarding kennel, veterinary hospital or animal shelter. All
expenses incurred as a result of the confinement shall be paid by the owner.
Failure to comply with the removal order of the City Officer shall be a
violation of this chapter and the animal will then be impounded as prescribed
in this chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.075 INJURED ANIMALS.
   Animals injured on public property may be impounded and given adequate
veterinary medical treatment pending notification to owner. If the injured
animal is treated and/or impounded, the owner of the animal shall be liable for
all expenses of the treatment and/or the impoundment.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996)
§ 91.076 OTHER NUISANCES.
   Additional nuisance matters include but are not limited to:
   (A)   Damages to property of anyone other than its owner;
   (B)   Molests or intimidates pedestrians or passersby;
   (C)   Chases vehicles;
   (D)   Is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare by
virtue of the number and/or types of animals maintained; and
   (E)   Attacks other domestic animals;
(Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-27-1996)
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 91.090 POSSESSION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   No person shall own or harbor a dangerous animal within the city. Such an
animal shall be impounded as a public nuisance. If impoundment of the animal
running at large cannot be made with the safety to the Animal Control Officer
or other persons, the animal may be destroyed without notice to the owner or
harborer.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483B, passed 1-
9-1996; Ord. 483D, passed 8-27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.091 GUARD DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place or maintain any dog which has been
specifically trained to attack, in any area for the protection of persons or
property unless the dog is physically confined to a specific area, or is under
complete control.
   (B)   The area or premises in which a guard dog is confined must be
conspicuously posted with warning signs bearing letters not less than two
inches high in both English and Spanish.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
IMPOUNDED ANIMALS
§ 91.105 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Animals owned or harbored in violation of this chapter or any other
ordinance or law of the state shall be taken into custody by the Animal Control
Officer or designated official and impounded. Stray animals shall be similarly
impounded, subject to the provisions of divisions (B), (C) and (D) that follow.
The city shall have the right to pick up and impound animals on any day of the
week.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, FERAL CAT shall mean either an
abandoned cat or the offspring of cats once owned and then abandoned.
   (C)   All feral cats captured by the city's Animal Control Officer, whether
captured through the direct action of the officer or by becoming trapped in an
animal-capturing device, will be taken by the officer to the city animal
shelter. The feral cat will then be examined by a veterinarian to determine the
condition of its health, and vaccinated for rabies.
   (D)   Before being released from impoundment, the feral cat will be spayed
or neutered, as the case may be, and one ear of the cat will be “notched” or
“tipped” so that it can be identified upon subsequent impoundment as being a
feral cat that has completed the feral cat program. The feral cat shall be
released once these procedures are completed.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996; Ord. 483-E, passed 8-11-2009)
§ 91.106 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   A suitable animal shelter shall be provided for the purpose of boarding and
caring for any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996)
§ 91.107 REMOVAL OF ANIMALS FROM ANIMAL SHELTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any impounded animal from the
animal shelter without the consent of the Animal Control Officer or designated
official or agency.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.108 REMOVAL OF BITING ANIMALS FOR CONFINEMENT.
   The impoundment of animals, that have inflicted bites to a human, shall be
for a period of up to ten days for observation and shall not be terminated
until a licensed veterinarian or the local Health Authority has declared the
animal to be free of rabies.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996)
§ 91.109 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED UNLICENSED ANIMALS.
   If the owner of the impounded animal is known, notice shall be given to him
or her if practicable. Any impounded animal may be redeemed by the owner upon
payment of the license fee if applicable, care and feeding charges, veterinary
charges, rabies vaccination charges, impounded fees and any other costs as set
by the City Commission. If the animal is not redeemed within three days, it
shall be considered abandoned and it shall be taken by the Animal Control
Officer to the Isabel Y. Garcia Shelter. The shelter shall have the right
pursuant to state law to sell the animal for the costs or proceedings and any
penalties incurred if the animal is not picked up within the time specified by
the animal shelter. Further, pursuant to state law, the animal shelter shall
have the power to order the destruction of the animal if it cannot be sold. The
care and feeding charges while in the animal shelter shall be $10 per day or
any fraction thereof. This shall include the feeding and watering of the
animal. Owners may claim their animal at the Isabel Y. Garcia Shelter.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996)
§ 91.110 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL BEING HELD ON COMPLAINT.
   If a complaint has been filed in the Municipal Court of the city against the
owner of an impounded animal for a violation of this chapter, the animal shall
not be released except on the order of the court which may also direct the
owner to pay any penalties for violation of this chapter in addition to all
impoundment fees. The court may, upon making a finding that the animal is
vicious or that it represents a clear and present danger to the citizens or
other animals in the community, order the animal to be destroyed in a humane
manner. Surrender of an animal by the owner thereof to the Animal Control
Officer does not relieve or render the owner immune from the decision of the
court, nor to any fees and fines which may result from a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996)
INHUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS
§ 91.125 INHUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide his or her animals with sufficient
wholesome and nutritious food, water in sufficient quantities, proper air,
shelter space and protection from the weather, veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering, and humane care and treatment.
   (B)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment, overload, overwork
or otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate, or permit any dogfight,
cockfight, bullfight or other combat between animals.
   (C)   No owner shall abandon any animal, abandonment consisting of leaving
the animal for a period in excess of 24 hours, without providing for someone to
feed, water and check the animal's condition. No owner shall leave an animal by
a roadside or other area or leave the animal on either public or private
property without the property owner's consent. An animal so left shall be
deemed abandoned. In the event that an animal is found so abandoned the animal
may be taken by Animal Control Officer to the animal shelter.
   (D)   Chickens, ducklings, rabbits or any other animal considered protected,
exotic or traditionally bred as "farm" animals may not be sold or harbored
within the city.
   (E)   No person shall give away any live animal, fish, reptile or bird as a
prize for, or as an inducement to enter, and contest, game or other
competition, as an inducement to enter a place of amusement; or as an incentive
to enter into any business agreement whereby the offer was for the purpose of
attracting trade.
   (F)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal shall stop at once and render assistance as may be possible and shall
immediately report the injury or death to the animal's owner; in the event the
owner cannot be ascertained and located, the operator shall at once report the
accident to the appropriate law enforcement agency or to the local humane
society.
   (G)   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed
with food or not, so that the same shall be liable to be eaten by any animal.
   (H)   If an animal is restrained by a chain, leash or similar restraint, it
shall be designed and placed to prevent choking or strangulation. The chain or
restraint shall not be less than ten feet in length, and either on swivel
designed to prevent the animal from choking itself or else on a chain run.
   (I)   No person shall crop a dog's ears or tail, except a veterinarian.
   (J)   No person shall raise or kill a dog or cat for food or for the skin or
fur.
   (K)   No person shall mutilate any animal whether dead or alive.
   (L)   No person shall engage or cause or allow any other person to engage in
sexual act with any animal.
   (M)   Any animal found involved in violation of any portion of this section
may be confiscated by any Animal Control Officer or police, whether on public
or private property and held in a humane manner. Upon conviction of this charge
by the Municipal Court or other court of law, all animals so confiscated shall
become the property of the city and the owner of the animal(s) shall pay to or
reimburse the city all veterinary fees associated with the medical treatment
provided to the animal while it was in custody.
(Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
KENNELING OF ANIMALS
§ 91.140 GENERAL.
   (A)    Kennels must meet all city and zoning requirements.
   (B)   The keeping of any animal within the city, or in territory outside the
city limits adjacent thereto and within 5,000 feet thereof, in a manner, or
under conditions such as to cause a hazard or danger to the public health, or
which produces noxious odors or disturbing noises, or discomfort or annoyance,
to persons of ordinary sensibilities in the immediate vicinity thereof, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.141 KEEPING OF ANIMALS; SPACE AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, possess or maintain any horse, mule,
donkey or other animal of the equine family; or any cow, calf, steer, bull or
any other animal of the bovine family, or any sheep or other animal of the
bovine family, or any goat or other animal of the caprine family on any parcel
of land or property within the city unless the same shall have a minimum area
of 6,000 additional square feet for one animal and 6,000 additional square feet
for each additional animal; and within 300 feet of any restaurant, café, or
other public eating place, or any church, school, hospital, convalescent home
or nursing home.
   (B)   If any animal is kept in or confined in any building or structure,
such as a stable, barn, shed, pen or fence, the distance of 300 feet shall be
measured in a straight line from the nearest point of the building or structure
to the nearest point of the residence or building used for human habitation,
restaurant, café other public eating place, church, school, hospital,
convalescent home or nursing home.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, possess or maintain
within the city any rabbit, guinea pig, ferret, any member of the rodent
family, pigeon, chicken, turkey, goose, duck, peafowl or any other fowl, in any
pen, enclosure or other structure, within 300 feet of any church, school,
hospital, convalescent home or nursing home; the distance of 300 feet to be
measured in a straight line from the nearest point of any pen, enclosure, or
other structure in which the fowl or animal is kept to the nearest point of the
residence, church, school, convalescent home or nursing home.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.142 KEEPING OF SWINE.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or permit to be kept any swine, or to allow
swine to remain, in any pen, lot, stable, yard, shed, sty or any other place
within the city. This section shall not prohibit the lawful operation of
export-import livestock shipping-receiving facilities, nor prohibit the
exhibition of swine for a period not to exceed 21 days in connection with
agricultural exhibitions or fairs. This section shall not apply to the keeping
within the city of not more than two Asian pot-bellied swine or similar small
swine, subject to the following:
   (A)   Each pot-bellied swine shall be a pet, that is to be kept for personal
enjoyment and not kept or raised for human consumption;
   (B)   Each pot-bellied swine is required to comply with: all registration,
vaccination, leash laws and all other city codes and ordinances that pertain to
dogs and cats within the city limits;
   (C)   Each pot-bellied swine shall be registered through a bona fide
registry firm;
   (D)   Each pot-bellied swine shall not exceed 75 pounds in weight and 20
inches in height; and
   (E)   There shall not be more than two pot-bellied swine of more than three
months of age per residence.
(Ord. 483D, passed 8-27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
PERMITS
§ 91.155 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND FEES.
   (A)   No person, partnership or corporation shall operate a kennel or pet
shop without first obtaining a permit in compliance with this section.
   (B)   The licensing authority shall issue regulations for permits and shall
include requirements for humane care of all animals and for compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and other applicable laws. The licensing authority
may amend the regulations from time to time as deemed desirable for public
health and welfare and for the protection of animals.
   (C)   When a permit applicant has shown that he or she is willing and able
to comply with the regulations issued by the licensing authority, a permit
shall be issued upon payment of the applicable fee.
   (D)   The permit period shall begin with the fiscal year and shall run for
one year. Renewal applications for permits shall be made 30 days prior to the
start of the fiscal year. Application for a permit to establish a new animal
establishment under the provisions of this chapter may be made at any time.
   (E)   If there is a change in ownership of an animal establishment, the new
owner must submit an application for a new permit 15 days prior to the transfer
of property.
   (F)   No person shall train any dog to be used as a guard or sentry dog
without possessing a valid license. This section shall not apply to the city/
county government or any of its agencies. The application for a guard or sentry
dog training license shall state the name and address of the owner and trainer,
location of the facility, and the maximum number of dogs to be housed at the
training facility.
   (G)   Annual permits shall be issued upon payment of the applicable fee:
 
Kennel authorized to house fewer than ten dogs or cats                   $50
Kennel authorized to house ten or more but fewer than fifty dogs or cats $100
Kennel authorized to house fifty or more dogs or cats                    $150
 
 
Pet shop                  $100
Riding stable             $100
Grooming shop             $50
Petting zoo               $150
Guard-dog training center $200
 
   (H)   Every facility regulated by this chapter shall be considered a
separate enterprise requiring an individual permit.
   (I)   No fee may be required of any veterinary hospital, animal shelter or
government-operated zoological park.
   (J)   Failure to obtain a permit before opening any facility covered in this
section shall result in a fine of $200.
   (K)   Any person who has a change in the category under which a permit was
issued shall be subject to reclassification and readjustment of the permit
fees.
(Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.156 LICENSE AND PERMIT ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   After an application is filed, the licensing authority shall inspect
the facility prior to issuing the permit. The licensing authority may revoke
any permit or license if the person holding the permit or license refuses or
fails to comply with this chapter, the regulations issued by the licensing
authority or any law governing the protection and keeping of animals.
   (B)   Any person whose permit or license is revoked shall, within ten days
thereafter humanely dispose of all animals owned, kept or harbored. No part of
the permit or license fee shall be refunded.
   (C)   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any permit or license that
the licensing authority shall be permitted to inspect all animals and the
premises where animals are kept at any time and shall, if permission for the
inspection is refused, revoke the permit or license of the refusing owner.
   (D)   If the applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the
application, the licensing authority shall refuse to issue a permit or license.
   (E)   No person who has been convicted of cruelty to animals shall be issued
a permit or license to operate a commercial animal establishment.
   (F)   Any person having been denied a license or permit may not re-apply for
a period of 30 days. Each re-application shall be accompanied by a $10 fee.
(Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
SAFETY PROVISION
§ 91.170 INTERFERENCE WITH THE ANIMAL CONTROL SUPERVISOR OR AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or
prevent the Animal Control Supervisor or his or her authorized representatives
in the discharge of their duties as herein prescribed, or to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.171 APPOINTMENT OF AN ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The City Commissioners are to appoint members to the advisory
committee who will assist the City Commission and the Animal Control Supervisor
with the state requirements and the operation of the Isabel Y. Garcia Animal
Shelter for the city.
   (B)   The advisory committee must be composed of at least one licensed
veterinarian, one municipal official, one person whose duties include the daily
operation of the animal shelter, and one representative from animal
organization.
   (C)   The advisory committee shall meet at least three times a year.
(Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483C, passed 4-23-1996; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions, see Vernon Ann. Civ. St. 823.005
SPAYING AND NEUTERING OF PETS
§ 91.180 GENERAL.
   (A)   Requirement. No person may harbor a dog or cat six months of age or
older within the city limits that has not been spayed or neutered unless such
person holds an unaltered animal permit for each unaltered dog or cat, unless
the dog or cat is otherwise exempt under this section.
   (B)   Unaltered animal permit.
      (1)   Qualifications. An owner of an unaltered dog or cat shall qualify
for an unaltered animal permit if one of the following is satisfied:
         (a)   Shows and competitions. The dog or cat is used to show, to
compete or to breed, which is of a breed recognized by and registered with the
American Dog Breeders Association (ADBA), Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA), or
other bona fide registry, and meets one of the following requirements:
            (i)   The dog or cat has competed in at least one show or sporting
competition sanctioned by a bona fide national registry within the last 365
days;
            (ii)   The dog earned conformation, obedience, agility, carting,
herding, hunting, protection, rally, sporting, working or other title from a
purebred dog registry, referenced above, or other registry or dog sport
association; or
            (iii)   The owner of the dog or cat is a member of, and the dog or
cat is registered with, a bona fide purebred dog breed club or CFA which
maintains and enforces a code of ethics for dog or cat breeding that includes
restriction from breeding dogs or cats with genetic defects and life-
threatening health problems that commonly threaten the breed, or the owner
signs a statement under oath attesting that the dog or cat is being trained to
comply with division (a)(i) and (a)(ii) above.
         (b)   Medical fitness. A veterinarian licensed in the State of Texas
certifies in writing that a dog or cat is medically unfit to undergo the
required spay or neuter procedure because of a medical condition, including but
not limited to age or a medical condition that would be substantially
aggravated by the procedure, or would likely result in the death of the dog or
cat. The certification must state the date, if any, by which the dog or cat may
be spayed or neutered, if applicable. As soon as the medical condition that
prevents a dog or cat from being spayed or neutered ceases to exist, it shall
be the duty of the owner to have it spayed or neutered within 30 days
thereafter.
         (c)   Law enforcement. The dog is currently used by a law enforcement
agency for law enforcement purposes or is part of a bona fide law enforcement
animal breeding program. Such certification shall be provided to the city.
         (d)   Service animal breeding programs. A dog or cat that is a service
animal that is part of a certified service animal breeding program. If the
animal is part of a such breeding program for service dogs the owner must
provide to the city a written certification from such breeding program
administrator.
         (e)   Breeders. The owner demonstrates to the city written proof of a
breeding contract for a particular dog or cat, membership in a bona fide
national, state or local breeder organization, for the perpetuation of a given
breed of a dog or cat or proof of a litter produced by intentional breeding of
the dog or cat within the last 365 days for which a contract to breed can be
produced.
         (f)   Hunting and herding dogs. The dog is currently used as, or
trained to be, a hunting or herding dog and the dog is registered with a bona
fide national, state or local hunting or herding dog association.
Alternatively, the owner of the dog signs a statement under oath attesting that
the dog is used, trained, or will be trained to be a hunting or herding dog.
None of the aforementioned qualifications shall be construed to authorize the
breeding or harboring of dogs or cats in violation of this section nor exempt
the owner of the dog or cat from any other provision of this chapter.
      (2)   Deadline. A dog or cat governed by this section shall be spayed or
neutered by its owner within 90 days of the effective date of this section, or,
if eligible hereunder, the owner shall obtain an unaltered animal permit within
the latter of 30 days after the effective date hereof or of such dog or cat
becoming six months of age, or, in the case of an owner who hereafter acquires
a dog or cat that is to reside within the city, such animal shall be spayed or
neutered or an unaltered animal permit shall be obtained within 30 days of the
animal being brought within the city or within 30 days after the animal becomes
six months of age, whichever is later.
      (3)   Micro-chipping. Micro-chipping is already required on all dogs and
cats residing in the city limits of Port Isabel. Any dog or cat presented for a
spay or neuter that is not currently micro-chipped will be required to be
micro-chipped at the time of a neuter or spay procedure.
      (4)   Place of residence. The address of the owner shall be presumed to
be the residence of the dog or cat. All changes of address must be reported to
the city animal control division within 30 days following such change. Changes
of address and other contact information must also be updated through the
micro-chipping entity.
      (5)   Change in ownership. A permit holder shall notify the city animal
services division and the national registry applicable to the implanted
microchip in writing of any change in ownership of a dog or cat within 30
calendar days of the change.
      (6)   Term of permit. An unaltered animal permit shall be valid for a
period of three years at which time it must be reapplied for by the animal
owner, unless revoked as hereafter provided.
      (7)   Revocation. Upon receipt of information of violation of this
section, the animal control division may issue a notice of revocation to an
unaltered animal permit holder. The notice of revocation shall provide a
summary of the information of the violation and shall be sent by certified mail
(return receipt requested) or by hand delivery by a City Animal Services
Officer or by any legal officer of the city, or upon posting of the notice at
the address listed in the permit application. Any request for a hearing to
appeal such permit revocation shall be filed by the permit holder with the city
animal services division within ten days after the notice is served in
accordance herewith. The permit holder shall set forth the reasons why the
permit holder believes the revocation would be an error in such notice. Failure
to timely give such notice of appeal and to request a hearing shall render the
permit revocation final. A hearing shall be conducted by the City Manager for
any permit revocation appeal within 30 days after the receipt of a request for
hearing, and the City Manager's decision shall be final and not appealable. If
an unaltered animal permit is revoked the animal must be spayed or neutered
within 30 days or it must leave the city or obtain a new permit.
      (8)   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this section, as
amended, is subject to enforcement and penalties as set forth herein.
   (C)   Exemptions. Any dog or cat being harbored by a lawful humane society/
animal shelter, whose principal purpose is securing the adoption of dogs or
cats is exempt from the spay and neuter requirements of this section until they
are adopted or no longer housed at such shelter.
(Ord. 483-G, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter (or any
subsequent amendments hereto), or who shall fail to comply herewith, or with
any of the requirements thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
liable to a fine of not less than $1 nor more than $1,000 for each offense;
provided, however, that the fine shall not exceed the maximum fine allowed by
both state and city ordinances for each offense. The Police Department of the
city and the Director of Public Health or his or her representative is hereby
authorized to issue citations to any owner, leasee or occupier of any premises
within the city limits for violations of the chapter. The citation issued shall
state the alleged violations, the date of the violation, and the section of the
code ordinances violated.
(Ord. 483, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. 483A, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 483D, passed 8-
27-1996)
CHAPTER 92: BEACH ACCESS AND DUNE PROTECTION PLAN
Section
   
92.01   Name of chapter
   
92.02   Policy, purpose and legal authority
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Beach Access and Dune Permit Committee
   
92.05   Dune protection line established
   
92.06   Prohibited activities
   
92.07   Required permits and certificates
   
92.08   Permit and certificate process
   
92.09   Permit certificate application requirements
   
92.10   Dune protection standards
   
92.11   Beachfront construction standards
   
92.12   Concurrent dune protection and beachfront construction standards
   
92.13   Public beach management
   
92.14   Beach access and use plan
   
92.15   Vehicular control plan
   
92.16   Beach user fees
   
92.17   Criminal offense
   
92.18   Civil enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 NAME OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be known as the City of Port Isabel, Texas Public Beach
Access and Dune Protection Plan.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.02 POLICY, PURPOSE AND LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   It is the public policy of the city, a home rule municipality, to: protect,
preserve, restore and enhance coastal natural resources including beaches and
dunes; to protect and enhance the public's guaranteed right of access to, use
of and enjoyment of the public beach; and to observe a fair and reasonable
balance between the rights of the general public to the use of public beach and
the rights of property owners in the use and development of their beachfront
property. It is the purpose of this chapter to further the foregoing public
policy and to comply with laws and regulations concerning the State Dune
Protection Act and the Open Beaches Act. The legal authorities for this chapter
are Tex. Natural Resources Code Chapters 61 and 63 and Tex. Administrative Code
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, Rules 15.1 - 15.10 and 15.21
(hereinafter 31 TAC §§ 15.1 et seq.), the authorities being incorporated by
reference herein. Any person in violation of these incorporated state laws is
in violation of this chapter. Copies of pertinent federal and state laws, rules
and regulations relating to the provisions of this chapter shall be appended to
all copies of this chapter provided to applicants.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFECT. As used in this subchapter regarding dunes, dune vegetation and the
public beach, AFFECT means to produce an effect upon dunes, dune vegetation or
public beach use and access.
   AMENITIES. Any nonhabitable major structure including swimming pools,
bathhouses, detached garages, cabanas, pipelines, piers, canals, lakes,
ditches, artificial runoff channels and other water retention structures,
roads, streets, highways, parking areas and other paved areas (exceeding 144
square feet in area), underground storage tanks and similar structures.
   APPLICANT. Any person applying to the city for a permit and/or certificate
for any construction or development plan.
   BACKDUNES. The dunes located landward of the foredune ridge which are
usually well-vegetated but may also be unvegetated and migratory. These dunes
supply sediment to the beach after the foredunes and the foredune ridge have
been destroyed by natural or human activities.
   BEACH ACCESS. The right to use and enjoy the public beach, including the
right of free and unrestricted ingress and egress to and from the public beach.
   BEACH AND DUNE RULES. Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15,
Subchapter A, Rules 15.1 - 15.10.
   BEACH AND DUNE SYSTEM. The land from the line of mean low tide of the Gulf
of Mexico to the landward limit of dune formation.
   BEACHFRONT CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATE OR CERTIFICATE. The document issued by
the city that certifies that the proposed construction either is consistent
with the city's dune protection and beach access plan or is inconsistent with
the city's dune protection and beach access plan. In the latter case, the city
must specify how the construction is inconsistent with the plan, as required by
the Open Beaches Act, Tex. Natural Resources Code § 61.015.
   BEACH MAINTENANCE. The cleaning or removal of debris from the beach by
handpicking, raking or mechanical means.
   BEACH PROFILE. The shape and elevation of the beach as determined by
surveying a cross section of the beach.
   BEACH-RELATED SERVICES. Reasonable and necessary services and facilities
directly related to the public beach which are provided to the public to ensure
safe use of and access to and from the public beach, such as vehicular
controls, management and parking (including acquisition and maintenance of off-
beach parking and access ways); sanitation and litter control; lifeguarding and
lifesaving; beach maintenance; law enforcement; beach nourishment projects;
beach and dune system education; beach and dune protection and restoration
projects; providing public facilities such as restrooms, showers, lockers,
equipment rentals and picnic areas; recreational and refreshment facilities;
liability insurance; and staff and personnel necessary to provide beach-related
services. BEACH-RELATED SERVICES and facilities shall serve only those areas on
or immediately adjacent to the public beach.
   BEACH USER FEE. A fee collected by the city in order to establish and
maintain beach-related services and facilities for the preservation and
enhancement of access to and from and safe and healthy use of public beaches by
the public.
   BLOWOUT. A breach in the dunes caused by wind erosion.
   BREACH. A break or gap in the continuity of a dune caused by wind or water.
   BULKHEAD. A structure or partition built to retain or prevent the sliding of
land. A secondary purpose is to protect the upland against damage from wave
action.
   CITY. The City of Port Isabel, Texas and the area within its corporate
limits.
   COASTAL AND SHORE PROTECTION PROJECT. A project designed to slow shoreline
erosion or enhance shoreline stabilization, including, but not limited to,
erosion response structures, beach nourishment, sediment bypassing,
construction of man-made vegetated mounds and dune revegetation.
   COMMERCIAL FACILITY. Any structure used for providing, distributing and
selling goods or services in commerce including, but not limited to, hotels,
restaurants, bars, rental operations and rental properties.
   CONSTRUCTION. Causing or carrying out any building, bulkheading, filling,
clearing, excavation or substantial improvement to land or the size of any
structure.
      (1)   BUILDING. Includes, but is not limited to, all related site work
and placement of construction materials on the site.
      (2)   EXCAVATION. Includes, but is not limited to, removal or alteration
of dunes and dune vegetation and scraping, grading or dredging a site.
      (3)   FILLING. Includes, but is not limited to, disposal of dredged
materials.
      (4)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENTS TO LAND OR THE SIZE OF ANY STRUCTURE.
Include, but are not limited to, creation of vehicular or pedestrian trails,
landscape work (that adversely affects dunes or dune vegetation) and increasing
the size of any structure.
   COPPICE MOUNDS. The initial stages of dune growth formed as sand accumulates
on the downwind side of plants and other obstructions on or immediately
adjacent to the beach seaward of the foredunes. COPPICE MOUNDS may be
unvegetated.
   CRITICAL DUNE AREAS. Those portions of the beach and dune system as
designated by the General Land Office that are located within 1,000 feet of
mean high tide of the Gulf of Mexico that contain dunes and dune complexes that
are essential to the protection of public beaches, submerged land and state-
owned land, such as public roads and coastal public lands, from nuisance,
erosion, storm surge and high wind and waves. CRITICAL DUNE AREAS include, but
are not limited to, the dunes that store sand in the beach and dune system to
replenish eroding public beaches.
   CUMULATIVE IMPACT. The effect on beach use and access, on a critical dune
area, or an area seaward of the dune protection line which results from the
incremental effect of an action when added to other past, present and
reasonably foreseeable future actions regardless of what agency or person
undertakes such other actions. Cumulative effects can result from individually
minor but collectively significant actions taking place over a period of time.
   DEDICATION. Includes, but is not limited to, a restrictive covenant,
permanent easement and fee simple donation.
   DUNE. An emergent mound, hill or ridge of sand, either bare or vegetated,
located on land bordering the waters of the Gulf of Mexico. DUNES are naturally
formed by the windward transport of sediment, but can also be created via man-
made vegetated mounds. Natural dunes are usually found adjacent to the
uppermost limit of wave action and are usually marked by an abrupt change in
slope landward of the dry beach. The term includes coppice mounds, foredunes,
dunes comprising the foredune ridge, backdunes and man-made vegetated mounds.
   DUNE COMPLEX or DUNE AREA. Any emergent area adjacent to the waters of the
Gulf of Mexico in which several types of dunes are found or in which dunes have
been established by proper management of the area. In some portions of the
state coast, dune complexes contain depressions known as swales.
   DUNE PROTECTION ACT. Tex. Natural Resources Code §§ 63.001 et seq.
   DUNE PROTECTION AND BEACH ACCESS PLAN or PLAN. The city's legally
enforceable program, policies and procedures for protecting dunes and dune
vegetation and for preserving and  enhancing use of and access to and from
public beaches, as required by the Dune Protection Act, being Tex. Natural
Resources Code, §§ 63.001 et seq. and the Open Beaches Act, being Tex. Natural
Resources Code, §§ 61.011 et seq.
   DUNE PROTECTION LINE. The line established by the city for the purpose of
preserving, at a minimum, all critical dune areas identified by the General
Land Office pursuant to the Dune Protection Act, Tex. Natural Resources Code §
63.011 and Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A,
§ 15.3(f). The city is not authorized to establish a dune protection line
unless the authority to do so has been delegated to the city by the county. The
lines will be located no farther than 1,000 feet landward of the mean high tide
of the Gulf of Mexico.
   DUNE PROTECTION PERMIT or PERMIT. The document issued by the city to
authorize construction or other regulated activities in a specified location
seaward of a dune protection line or within a critical dune area, as provided
in the Tex. Natural Resources Code § 63.051.
   DUNE VEGETATION. Flora indigenous to natural dune complexes and growing on
naturally-formed dunes or man-made vegetated mounds on the state coast and can
include coastal grasses and herbaceous and woody plants.
   EFFECT or EFFECTS.  
      (1)   Include:
         (a)   DIRECT EFFECTS. Those impacts on public beach use and access, on
critical dune areas, or on dunes and dune vegetation seaward of a dune
protection line which are caused by an action and occur at the same time and
place; and
         (b)   INDIRECT EFFECTS. Those impacts on beach use and access, on
critical dune areas, or on dunes and dune vegetation seaward of a dune
protection line which are caused by an action and are later in time or farther
removed in distance than a direct effect, but are still reasonably foreseeable.
INDIRECT EFFECTS may include growth inducing effects and other effects related
to induced changes in the pattern of land use, population density or growth
rate, and related effects on air and water and other natural systems, including
ecosystems.
      (2)   EFFECTS and impacts as used in this chapter are synonymous.
      (3)   EFFECTS may be ecological (such as the effects on natural resources
and on the components, structures and functioning of affected ecosystems),
aesthetic, historic, cultural, economic, social or health, whether direct,
indirect or cumulative.
   ERODING AREA. A portion of the shoreline which is experiencing an historical
erosion rate of greater than two feet per year based on published data of the
University of Texas at Austin, Bureau of Economic Geology. The city may
establish an eroding area boundary in beach and dune plans; this boundary shall
be whichever distance landward of the line of vegetation is greater: 200 feet,
or the distance determined by multiplying 50 years by the annual historical
erosion rate (based on the most  recent data published by the University of
Texas at Austin, Bureau of Economic Geology).
   EROSION. The wearing away of land or the removal of beach and/or dune
sediments by wave action, tidal currents, wave currents, drainage or wind.
EROSION includes, but is not limited to, horizontal recession and scour and can
be induced or aggravated by human activities.
   EROSION RESPONSE STRUCTURE. A hard or rigid structure built for shoreline
stabilization which includes, but is not limited to, a jetty, groin,
breakwater, bulkhead, seawall, riprap, rubble mound, revetment or the
foundation of a structure which is the functional equivalent of these specified
structures.
   FEMA. The United States Federal Emergency Management Agency. This agency
administers the National Flood Insurance Program and publishes the official
flood insurance rate maps.
   FOREDUNES. The first clearly distinguishable, usually vegetated, stabilized
large dunes encountered landward of the Gulf of Mexico. On some portions of the
state Gulf Coast, FOREDUNES may also be large, unvegetated and unstabilized.
Although they may be large and continuous, FOREDUNES are typically hummocky and
discontinuous and may be interrupted by breaches and washover areas. FOREDUNES
offer the first significant means of dissipating storm-generated wave and
current energy issuing from the Gulf of Mexico. Because various heights and
configurations of dunes may perform this function, no standardized physical
description applies. FOREDUNES are distinguishable from surrounding dune types
by their relative location and physical appearance.
   FOREDUNE RIDGE. The high continuous line of dunes which are usually well-
vegetated and rise sharply landward of the foredune area but may also rise
directly from a flat, wave-cut beach immediately after a storm.
   HABITABLE STRUCTURE PERIMETER or FOOTPRINT. The area of a lot covered by a
structure used or usable for habitation. The HABITABLE STRUCTURE PERIMETER or
FOOTPRINT does not include incidental projecting eaves, balconies, ground-level
paving, landscaping, open recreational facilities (for example, pools and
tennis courts) or other similar features.
   HABITABLE STRUCTURES. Structures suitable for human habitation including,
but not limited to, single or multi-family residences, hotels, condominium
buildings and buildings for commercial purposes. Each building of a condominium
regime is considered a separate habitable structure, but if a building is
divided into apartments, then the entire building, not the individual
apartments, is considered a SINGLE HABITABLE STRUCTURE. Additionally, a
HABITABLE STRUCTURE includes porches, gazebos and other attached improvements.
   INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES. Include, but are not limited to, those establishments
listed in Part 1, Division D, Major Groups 20-39 and Part 1, Division E, Major
Group 49 of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual as adopted by the
Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget (1987 ed.).
However, for the purposes of this chapter, the establishments listed in Part 1,
Division D, Major Group 20, Industry Group Number 209, Industry Numbers 2091
and 2092 are not considered INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES. These establishments are
listed in Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A,
§ 15.2, Appendix I.
   LARGE-SCALE CONSTRUCTION. Construction activity greater than 5,000 square
feet in area and habitable structures greater than two stories in height.
Multiple-family habitable structures are typical of this type of construction.
   LINE OF VEGETATION. The extreme seaward boundary of natural vegetation which
spreads continuously inland. The LINE OF VEGETATION is typically used to
determine the landward extent of the public beach.
   MAN-MADE VEGETATED MOUND. A mound, hill or ridge of sand created by the
deliberate placement of sand or sand trapping devices including sand fences,
trees or brush and planted with dune vegetation.
   MASTER PLAN. A plan developed by the applicant in consultation with the
General Land Office, the Office of the Attorney General, the applicant or
applicants, and the city, for the development of an area subject to the beach
and dune rules, as identified in Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1,
Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.3. The MASTER PLAN shall fully describe in
narrative form the proposed development and all proposed land and water uses,
and shall include maps, drawings, and tables and other information, as needed.
The MASTER PLAN must, at a minimum, fully describe the general geology and
geography of the site, land and water use intensities, size and location of all
buildings, structures and improvements, all vehicular and pedestrian access
ways, and parking or storage facilities, location and design of utility
systems, location and design of any erosion response structures, retaining
walls or stormwater treatment management systems, and the schedule for all
construction activities described in the MASTER PLAN. The MASTER PLAN shall
comply with the Open Beaches Act, being Tex. Natural Resources Code, §§ 61.011
et seq. and the Dune Protection Act, being Tex. Natural Resources Code, §§
63.001 et seq.  The MASTER PLAN shall provide for overall compliance with the
beach and dune rules, but may vary from the specific standards, means and
methods provided in the beach and dune rules if the degree of dune protection
and the public's right to safe and healthy use of and access to and from the
public beach are preserved. If all impacts to dunes, dune vegetation and public
beach use and access are accurately identified, the city shall not require
permits or certificates for construction on the individual lots within the
MASTER PLAN area. MASTER PLANS are intended to provide a comprehensive option
for planning along the state coast.
   MATERIAL CHANGES. Changes in project design, construction materials or
construction methods or in the condition of the construction site which occur
after an application is submitted to the city or after the city issues a permit
or certificate. MATERIAL CHANGES are those additional or unanticipated changes
which have caused or will cause adverse effects on dunes, dune vegetation or
beach access and use, or exacerbation of erosion on or adjacent to the
construction site.
   MITIGATION SEQUENCE. The series of steps which must be taken if dunes and
dune vegetation will be adversely affected. First, the adverse effects shall be
avoided. Second, adverse effects shall be  minimized. Third, the dunes and dune
vegetation adversely affected shall be repaired, restored or replaced. Fourth,
the dunes and dune vegetation adversely affected shall be replaced or
substituted to compensate for the adverse effects.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE ACT. 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.
   NATURAL RESOURCES. Land, fish, wildlife, insects, biota, air, surface water,
groundwater, plants, trees, habitat of flora and fauna and other resources.
   OPEN BEACHES ACT. Tex. Natural Resources Code §§ 61.001 et seq.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. Any person owning, operating or responsible for operating
commercial or industrial facilities.
   PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE CONDITION. A requirement or restriction in a permit or
certificate necessary to assure protection of life, natural resources, property
and adequate beach use and access rights (consistent with the Dune Protection
Act) which a permittee must satisfy in order to be in compliance with the
permit or certificate.
   PERMITTEE. Any person authorized to act under a permit or a certificate
issued by the city.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership,
consortium, joint venture, commercial entity, United States government, state,
municipality, commission, political subdivision or any international or
interstate body or any other governmental entity.
   PIPELINE. A tube or system of tubes used for the transportation of oil, gas,
chemicals, fuels, water, sewerage or other liquid, semi-liquid or gaseous
substances.
   PRACTICABLE. In determining what is practicable, the city shall consider the
effectiveness, scientific feasibility and commercial availability of the
technology or technique. The city shall also consider the cost of the
technology or technique.
   PRODUCTION AND GATHERING FACILITIES. The equipment used to recover and move
oil or gas from a well to a main pipeline, or other point of delivery such as a
tank battery, and to place the oil or gas into marketable condition. Included
are pipelines used as gathering lines, pumps, tanks, separators, compressors
and associated equipment and roads.
   PROJECT AREA. The portion of a site or sites which will be affected by
proposed construction.
   PUBLIC BEACH.  As used in this chapter, PUBLIC BEACH is defined in the Tex.
Natural Resources Code § 61.013(c) as follows: any beach bordering the Gulf of
Mexico that extends inland from the line of mean low tide to the natural line
of vegetation bordering on the seaward shore of the Gulf of Mexico, or the
larger contiguous area to which the public has acquired a right of use or
easement to or over by prescription, dedication or estoppel, or has retained a
right by virtue of continuous right in the public since time immemorial as
recognized by law or custom.
   RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY. Includes, but is not limited to, hiking, sunbathing
and camping for less than 21 days. As used in Tex. Administrative Code Title
31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.3(s)(2)(C), RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES
are limited to the private activities of the person owning the land and the
social guests of the owner. Operation of recreational vehicles is not
considered a RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY, whether private or public.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A dune buggy, marsh buggy, minibike, trail bike, jeep
or any other mechanized vehicle used for recreational purposes.
   RESTORATION. The process of constructing man-made vegetated mounds,
repairing damaged dunes or vegetating existing dunes.
   RETAINING WALL. A structure designed to contain or which primarily contains
material or prevents the sliding of land. RETAINING WALLS may collapse under
the forces of normal wave activity.
   SAND BUDGET. The amount of all sources of sediment, sediment traps and
transport of sediment within a defined area. From the SAND BUDGET, it is
possible to determine whether sediment gains and losses are in balance.
   SEAWALL. An erosion response structure specifically designed to or which
will withstand wave forces.
   SEAWARD OF A DUNE PROTECTION LINE. The area between a dune protection line
and the line of mean high tide.
   SMALL-SCALE CONSTRUCTION. Construction activity less than or equal to 5,000
square feet and habitable structures less than or equal to two stories in
height. Single-family habitable structures are typical of this type of
construction.
   STRUCTURE. Includes, without limitation, any building or combination of
related components constructed in an ordered scheme that constitutes a work or
improvement constructed on or affixed to land.
   SWALES. Low areas within a dune complex located in some portions of the
state coast which function as natural rainwater collection areas and are an
integral part of the dune complex.
   UNIQUE FLORA AND FAUNA. Endangered or threatened plant or animal species
listed at 16 U.S.C. § 1531, the Endangered Species Act of 1973 and/or the Parks
and Wildlife Code, Chapter 68, or any plant or animal species that the city has
determined in their local beach and dune plan are rare or uncommon.
   WASHOVER AREAS. Low areas that are adjacent to beaches and are inundated by
waves and storm tides from the Gulf of Mexico. Washovers may be found in
abandoned tidal channels or where foredunes are poorly developed or breached by
storm tides and wind erosion.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.04 BEACH ACCESS AND DUNE PERMIT COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby established a Beach Access and Dune Permit Committee whose
duties shall be to identify problems, develop solutions, goals and strategies,
advise the City Commission concerning the city's Public Beach Access and Dune
Protection Plan, and make recommendations to the City Commission concerning
applications for dune protection permits and beachfront construction
certificates. This committee shall consist of the City Manager, Building
Official, City Attorney, a consulting engineer or other person familiar with
shoreline building practices, and up to three additional city citizens to be
selected by the City Manager. Citizen members shall represent the interests of
the community including persons with special interest in environmental
protection, conservation and enhancement of natural resources and public beach
access. This Committee shall review dune protection permit and beachfront
construction certificate applications and shall recommend their approval,
approval with terms and conditions, or disapproval to the City Commission.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.05 DUNE PROTECTION LINE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a dune protection line as required by Tex.
Natural Resources Code Chapter 63. The dune protection line established herein
is established in those areas which the county has delegated the administration
of Tex. Natural Resources Code Chapter 63 to the city. The delegated areas are
those areas within the corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the city, except the area located within Isla Blanca Park, Andy Bowie Park and
Edwin King Atwood Park. The county retains its administration of Tex. Natural
Resources Code Chapter 63 in Isla Blanca Park, Andy Bowie Park, Edwin King
Atwood Park and all other areas not delegated to the city.
   (B)   The dune protection line shall be 1,000 feet landward of the mean high
tide. The city believes that the dune protection line in Port Isabel North
should, to the extent allowed by law, be the east right-of-way of Park Road 100
and, therefore, the city reserves the right to modify the dune protection line
after a field inspection is performed, critical dune areas are identified and a
more appropriate dune protection line can be established and mapped in
accordance with the State Plane Coordinate System. The modification shall be
submitted to the State General Land Office for approval and certification.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.06 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Dune protection permit. Unless a dune protection permit is properly
issued by the city that authorizes the conduct, or the activity is exempt from
permit requirements pursuant to the Dune Protection Act, Tex. Natural Resources
Code § 61.052, no person shall:
      (1)   Damage, destroy or remove a sand dune or portion of a sand dune
seaward of the dune protection line; or
      (2)   Kill, destroy or remove in any manner any vegetation growing on a
sand dune seaward of the dune protection line.
   (B)   Beachfront construction certificate. Unless a beachfront construction
project is properly certified by the city as consistent with this chapter, the
Beach/Dune Rules and the Open Beaches Act, no person shall cause, engage in or
allow construction on land adjacent to and landward of the public beaches and
lying in the area either up to the first public road generally parallel to the
public beach or to any closer public road not parallel to the beach, or to
within 1,000 feet of mean high tide, whichever distance is greater, that
affects or may affect public use of and access to and from the public beaches.
   (C)   Construction on the public beach prohibited. No dune protection permit
or beachfront construction certificate may be granted for any construction
activity in an area of public beach as defined herein.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 REQUIRED PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES.
   A dune protection permit shall be required for all construction activities
east of the dune protection line. A beachfront construction certificate shall
be required for all construction activities on land adjacent to and landward of
public beaches and lying in the area either up to the first public road
generally parallel to the public beach or to any closer public road not
parallel to the beach, or within 1,000 feet of mean high tide, whichever
distance is greater, that affects or may affect public use of and access to and
from public beaches. The permit and certificate must be obtained from the city
prior to any construction activity.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.08 PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE PROCESS.
   (A)   Application for a dune protection permit and beachfront construction
certificate must be submitted to the Building Official on an application form
provided by the city. After review of the application for completeness, the
Building Official shall submit the application to the Beach Access and Dune
Permit Committee. The Committee shall be authorized to retain the services of a
consultant to review the application and advise the Committee on the
application's compliance with this chapter and other laws. The Committee shall,
within 30 days of its submission, review the application and forward its
recommendation to the City Commission. If the Committee finds it is unable to
recommend granting the permit and/or certificate, the Committee may, with the
consent of the applicant, return the application to the applicant for
modification and reconsideration by the Committee. The City Commission shall,
within 30 days of receipt of the Committee's recommendation, grant, grant with
terms and conditions or deny the application. The time period for City
Commission consideration may be extended for up to 30 additional days if, after
receipt of comments upon the application, more time is necessary to study and
consider the comments. In the event of denial of a beachfront construction
certificate, the city will specify how the proposed construction is
inconsistent with the city's beach access and use plan.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, if an application is recommended for
approval by the Committee, a copy of the application and associated materials
shall be forwarded to the General Land Office and Attorney General's Office for
comments. The City Commission shall not act on the application until at least
ten working days after receipt of the application by the General Land Office
and Attorney General's Office.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.09 PERMIT CERTIFICATE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All permit and certificate applications must disclose all information
necessary for the city to make a determination regarding a permit or
certificate. At a minimum, applicants shall provide the following items and
information:
   (A)   Permit application requirements for large-and small-scale
construction. For all proposed construction, applicants shall submit the
following items and information:
      (1)   The name, address, phone number, and, if applicable, fax number of
the applicant, and the name of the property owner, if different from the
applicant;
      (2)   A complete legal description of the tract and a statement of its
size in acres or square feet;
      (3)   The number of proposed structures and whether the structures are
amenities or habitable structures;
      (4)   The number of parking spaces;
      (5)   The approximate percentage of existing and finished open spaces
(those areas completely free of structures);
      (6)   The floor plan and elevation view of the structure proposed to be
constructed or expanded;
      (7)   The approximate duration of the construction;
      (8)   A description (including location) of any existing or proposed
walkways or dune walkovers on the tract;
      (9)   A grading and layout plan identifying all elevations (in reference
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration datum), existing
contours of the project area (including the location of dunes and swales) and
proposed contours for final grade;
      (10)   Photographs of the site which clearly show the current location of
the vegetation line and the existing dunes on the tract;
      (11)   The effects of the proposed activity on the beach and dune system
which cannot be avoided should the proposed activity be permitted, including,
but not limited to, damage to dune vegetation, alteration of dune size and
shape and changes to dune hydrology;
      (12)   A comprehensive mitigation plan which includes a detailed
description of the methods which will be used to avoid, minimize, mitigate and/
or compensate for any adverse effects on dunes or dune vegetation;
      (13)   Proof of the applicant's financial capability acceptable to the
city to mitigate or compensate for adverse effects on dunes and dune
vegetation; and
      (14)   An accurate map, site plan or plat of the site identifying:
         (a)   The site by its legal description, including, where applicable,
the subdivision, block and lot;
         (b)   The location of the property lines and a notation of the legal
description of adjoining tracts;
         (c)   The location of the dune protection line, the line of
vegetation, proposed and existing structures and the project area of the
proposed construction on the tract;
         (d)   Proposed roadways and driveways and proposed landscaping
activities on the tract;
         (e)   The location of any seawalls or any other erosion response
structures on the tract and on the properties immediately adjacent to the
tract; and
         (f)   If known, the location and extent of any man-made vegetated
mounds, restored dunes, fill activities or any other pre-existing human
modifications on the tract.
   (B)   Certificate application requirements for large-and small-scale
construction. For all proposed construction, applicants shall submit the
following items and information:
      (1)   The name, address, phone number, and, if applicable, fax number of
the applicant and the name of the property owner, if different from the
applicant;
      (2)   A complete legal description of the tract and a statement of its
size in acres or square feet;
      (3)   The number of proposed structures and whether the structures are
amenities or habitable structures;
      (4)   A statement written by the applicant affirming that the
construction, the completed structure and use of or access to and from the
structure will not adversely affect the public beach or public beach access
ways or exacerbate erosion;
      (5)   The approximate duration of the construction;
      (6)   A description (including location) of any existing or proposed
walkways or dune walkovers on the tract;
      (7)   Photographs of the site which clearly show the current location of
the vegetation line and any dunes on the tract which are seaward of the dune
protection line; and
      (8)   An accurate map, site plan or plat of the site identifying:
         (a)   The site by its legal description, including, where applicable,
the subdivision, block and lot;
         (b)   The location of the property lines and a notation of the legal
description of adjoining tracts;
         (c)   The location of the proposed construction and the distance
between the proposed construction and mean high tide, the vegetation line, the
dune protection line and the landward limit of the beachfront construction
area;
         (d)   The location of proposed and existing structures, and the size
(in acres or square feet) of the proposed project area;
         (e)   Proposed roadways and driveways;
         (f)   Proposed landscaping activities within 200 feet of the line of
vegetation; and
         (g)   The location of any retaining walls or erosion response
structures on the tract and on the properties immediately adjacent to the tract
and within 100 feet of the common property line.
   (C)   Permit and certificate applications for large-scale construction. For
all proposed large-scale construction, the city shall require applicants to
submit the following additional items and information:
      (1)   If the tract is located in a subdivision and the applicant is the
owner or developer of the subdivision, a certified copy of the recorded plat of
the subdivision, or, if not a recorded subdivision, a plat of the subdivision
certified by a licensed surveyor, (if the area is located within an un-platted
tract, a survey will suffice) and a statement of the total area of the
subdivision in acres or square feet;
      (2)   In the case of multiple-unit dwellings, the number of units
proposed;
      (3)   Alternatives to the proposed location of construction on the tract
or to the proposed methods of construction which would cause fewer or no
adverse effects on dunes and dune vegetation or less impairment of beach
access; and
      (4)   The proposed activity's impact on the natural drainage pattern of
the site and the adjacent lots.
   (D)   Submission of readily available information with permit and
certificate applications. For all proposed construction (large and small-
scale), if applicants already have the following items and information,
applicants shall submit them in addition to the other information required:
      (1)   The most recent local historical erosion rate data (as determined
by the University of Texas at Austin, Bureau of Economic Geology) and the
activity's potential impact on coastal erosion; and
      (2)   A copy of the FEMA Elevation Certificate.
   (E)   Submission of information by the city. For all proposed construction
(large and small-scale), the city shall provide to the state the following
information:
      (1)   A copy of the community's most recent flood insurance rate map
identifying the site of the proposed construction;
      (2)   A preliminary determination as to whether the proposed construction
complies with all aspects of the city's dune protection and beach access plan;
      (3)   The activity's potential impact on the community's natural flood
protection and protection from storm surge;
      (4)   A description as to how the proposed beachfront construction
complies with and promotes the city's beach access policies and requirements,
particularly, the dune protection and beach access plan's provisions relating
to public beach ingress/egress, off-beach parking and avoidance of reduction in
the size of the public beach due to erosion; and
      (5)   Copies of aerial photographs of the proposed construction site with
a delineation of the footprint of the proposed construction, if the city has
aerial photographs of the area in which construction is proposed.
   (F)   Dissemination of erosion data and other technical information. For all
proposed construction (large and small-scale), the General Land Office shall be
the state contact for erosion rate data questions and supply available
technical information to the city, upon request.
   (G)   Master Plan applications. The city may consider applications for
permits and certificates for master planned areas and planned development
districts. Consideration of the applications shall be subject to the provisions
of Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.3
(s)(5) and §15.3(t)(2). If any Master Plan or planned development district
provides for variances from specific standards of the Beach/Dune Rules, the
chapter authorizing the Master Plan or planned development district shall be
submitted for review, comment and certification as a plan amendment in
accordance with Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15,
Subchapter A, § 15.3(o).
   (H)   Terms and renewal of permits and certificates. Permits and
certificates shall be valid for three years and may be renewed twice for no
longer than 90 days per renewal period. Master planned or planned development
districts permits and certificates may be authorized for a term for longer than
three years in conformity with the term of the plan. Any material change will
require a new or revised application.
   (I)   Record of application proceedings. The city shall retain for three
years the minutes and tape recordings of all City Commission meetings
considering the granting of an application for three years. The city shall also
retain all materials and comments relating to an application for three years.
   (J)   Application fee. The minimum application fee for a dune protection
permit and beachfront construction certificate shall be $100. The city shall,
by resolution, adopt a schedule of costs for application fees and permit/
certification fees in accordance with the size and scope of the activity
presented in the application.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.10 DUNE PROTECTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Required findings for issuance of permits. Before issuance of a dune
protection permit, the city must make the following four affirmative findings:
      (1)   The proposed activity is not prohibited by Tex. Administrative Code
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.4(c) or Tex. Administrative
Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.6;
      (2)   The proposed activity will not materially weaken dunes or
materially damage dune vegetation applying the standards set forth in Tex.
Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.4(d);
      (3)   There are no practicable alternatives to the proposed activities
and the impacts cannot be avoided as provided for in Tex. Administrative Code
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.4(f)(l); and
      (4)   The applicant's mitigation plan will adequately minimize, mitigate
and/or compensate for any unavoidable adverse effects, as provided for in Tex.
Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.4(f)(2)­
(5).
   (B)   Mitigation.
      (1)   The mitigation sequence shall be used by the city in determining
whether to issue a permit, after the determination that no material weakening
of dunes or material damage to dunes or dune vegetation will occur within
critical dune areas or seaward of the dune protection line.
      (2)   The mitigation sequence consists of the following steps: avoiding
the impact altogether by not taking a certain action or parts of an action;
minimizing impacts by limiting the degree or magnitude of the action and its
implementation; rectifying the impact by repairing, rehabilitating or restoring
the affected environment; and compensating for the impact by replacing
resources lost or damaged. If, for any reason, an applicant cannot demonstrate
the ability to mitigate adverse effects on dunes and dune vegetation, the city
shall not issue the permit. The city shall require a permittee to use the
mitigation sequence as a permit condition if the city finds that an activity
will result in any adverse effects on dunes or dune vegetation seaward of a
dune protection line or on critical dune areas. When the city requires
mitigation as a permit condition, it shall require that the permittee follow
the order of the mitigation sequence as provided for in the following
divisions.
   (C)   Avoidance. Avoidance means avoiding the effect on dunes and dune
vegetation altogether by not taking a certain action or parts of an action. The
city shall require permittees to avoid adverse effects on dunes and dune
vegetation. The city shall not issue a permit allowing any adverse effects on
dunes and dune vegetation located in critical dune areas or seaward of the dune
protection line unless the applicant proves there is no practicable alternative
to the proposed activity, proposed site or proposed methods for conducting the
activity, and the activity will not materially weaken the dunes or dune
vegetation. The city shall require permittees to include information as to
practicable alternatives in the permit application. The city shall review the
permit application to determine whether the permittee has considered all
practicable alternatives and whether one of the practicable alternatives would
cause no adverse effects on dunes and dune vegetation than the proposed
activity. The city shall require permittees to employ construction methods
which will have no adverse effects, unless the permittee can demonstrate that
the use of the methods is not practicable. The city shall require that
permittees undertaking construction in critical dune areas or seaward of a dune
protection line use the following avoidance techniques.
      (1)   Routing of nonexempt pipelines. Nonexempt pipelines are any
pipelines other than those subject to the exemption in Tex. Administrative Code
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.3(s)(2)(A). The city shall not
allow permittees to construct nonexempt pipelines within critical dune areas or
seaward of a dune protection line unless there is no practicable alternative.
      (2)   Location of construction and beach access. The city shall require
permittees proposing construction seaward of dune protection lines and within
critical dune areas to locate all construction as far landward of dunes as
practicable. The city shall not restrict construction which provides access to
and from the public beach pursuant to this provision.
      (3)   Location of roads. The city shall require permittees constructing
roads parallel to the beach to locate the roads as far landward of critical
dune areas as practicable and shall not allow permittees to locate the roads
within 200 feet landward of the natural vegetation line.
      (4)   Artificial runoff channels. The city shall not permit construction
of new artificial channels, including stormwater runoff channels, unless there
is no practicable alternative.
   (D)   Minimization. Minimization means minimizing effects on dunes and dune
vegetation by limiting the degree or magnitude of the action and its
implementation. The city shall require that permittees minimize adverse impacts
to dunes and dune vegetation by limiting the degree or magnitude of the action
and its implementation. If an applicant for a dune protection permit
demonstrates to the city that adverse effects on dunes or dune vegetation
cannot be avoided and the activity will not materially weaken dunes and dune
vegetation, the city may issue a permit allowing the proposed alteration,
provided that the permit contains a condition requiring the permittee to
minimize adverse effects on dunes or dune vegetation to the greatest extent
practicable.
      (1)   Routing of nonexempt pipelines. Nonexempt pipelines are any
pipelines other than those subject to the exemption in Tex. Administrative Code
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.3(s)(2)(A). If a permittee
demonstrates that there is no practicable alternative to crossing critical dune
areas, the city may allow a permittee to construct a pipeline across previously
disturbed areas, such as blowout areas. Where use of previously disturbed areas
is not practicable, the city shall require the permittee to avoid adverse
effects on or disturbance of dune surfaces and shall require the mitigation
sequence if the adverse effects are unavoidable.
      (2)   Location of construction and beach access.
         (a)   The city shall require permittees to minimize construction and
pedestrian traffic on or across dune areas to the greatest extent practicable,
taking into account trends of dune movement and beach erosion in that area.
         (b)   The city may allow permittees to route private and public
pedestrian beach access to and from the public beach through washover areas or
over elevated walkways in their approved dune protection and beach access
plans. All pedestrian access routes and walkways shall be clearly and
conspicuously marked with permanent signs by the city if the beach access is
public.
         (c)   The city shall minimize proliferation of excessive private
access by permitting only the minimum necessary private beach access points to
the public beach from any proposed subdivision, multiple dwelling or commercial
facility. In some cases, the minimum beach access points may be only one access
point. In determining the appropriate grouping of access points, the city shall
consider the size and scope of the development.
         (d)   The city and the owners and operators of commercial facilities,
subdivisions and multiple dwellings shall post signs in areas where pedestrian
traffic is high, explaining the functions of dunes and the importance of
vegetation in preserving dunes.
      (3)   Location of roads.
         (a)   Wherever practicable, the city may require permittees to locate
beach access roads in washover areas, blowout areas or other areas where dune
vegetation has already been disturbed. The city shall require permittees to
build the roads along the natural land contours, to minimize the width of the
roads, and where possible, to improve existing access roads with elevated berms
near the beach that prevent channelization of floodwaters. Where practicable,
the city shall require permittees to locate roads at an oblique angle to the
prevailing wind direction.
         (b)   Wherever practicable, the city shall provide vehicular access to
and from beaches by using existing roads or from roads constructed in
accordance with divisions (C)(3) and (D)(3)(a) of this section. The city shall
not apply this provision in a manner which restricts public beach access.
         (c)   The city shall include in any permit authorizing the
construction of roads a permit condition prohibiting persons from using or
parking any motor vehicle on, through or across dunes in critical dune areas
except for the use of vehicles on designated access ways.
      (4)   Artificial runoff channels. The city shall only authorize
construction of artificial runoff channels (that direct stormwater flow) if the
channels are located in a manner which avoids erosion and unnecessary
construction of additional channels. The city shall require that permittees
make maximum use of natural or existing drainage patterns, whenever
practicable, when locating new channels and storm water retention basins.
However, if new channels are necessary, the city shall require that permittees
direct all runoff inland and not to the Gulf of Mexico through critical dune
areas, where practicable.
   (E)   Mitigation. Mitigation means repairing, rehabilitating or restoring
affected dunes and dune vegetation. The city shall require permittees, as a
condition of the permit, to mitigate all adverse effects to dunes and dune
vegetation which will occur after a permittee has avoided and minimized the
adverse effects to the greatest extent practicable. The city shall require the
permittee to mitigate damage to dunes and dune vegetation so as to provide,
when compared to the pre-existing dunes and dune vegetation, an equal or
greater area of vegetative cover and dune volume, an equal or greater degree of
protection against damage to natural resources, and an equal or greater degree
of protection against flood and erosion damage and other nuisance conditions to
adjacent properties. When determining the appropriate mitigation method, the
city shall consider the recommendations of the General Land Office, federal and
state natural resource agencies and dune vegetation experts.
      (1)   Mitigation standards for dunes. The city may allow a permittee to
mitigate adverse effects on dunes using vegetative or mechanical means. The
city shall require that a permittee proposing to restore dunes use the
following techniques:
         (a)   Restore dunes to approximate the naturally formed dune position
or location, contour, volume, elevation, vegetative cover and sediment content
in the area;
         (b)   Allow for the natural dynamics and migration of dunes;
         (c)   Use discontinuous or continuous temporary sand fences or an
approved method of dune restoration, where appropriate, considering the
characteristics of the site; and
         (d)   Restore or repair dunes using indigenous vegetation that will
achieve the same protective capability or greater capability as the surrounding
natural dunes.
      (2)   Stabilization of critical dune areas. The city shall give priority
for stabilization to blowouts and breaches when permitting restoration of
dunes. Before permitting stabilization of washover areas, the city shall:
         (a)   Assess the overall impact of the project on the beach and dune
system;
         (b)   Consider any adverse effects on hydrology and drainage which
will result from the project; and
         (c)   Require that equal or better public beach access be provided to
compensate for impairment of any public beach access previously provided by the
washover area.
   (F)   Compensation. Compensation means compensating for effects on dunes and
dune vegetation by replacing or providing substitute dunes and dune vegetation.
Compensation may be undertaken both on-site and off-site; however, off-site
compensation may only be allowed as provided in division (F)(2) below.
      (1)   On-site compensation. On-site compensation consists of replacement
of the affected dunes or dune vegetation on the property where the damage to
dunes and dune vegetation occurred and seaward of the local dune protection
line. The city shall require permittees to undertake compensation on the
construction site, where practicable. The city shall require a permittee to
follow the requirements provided in division (E)(1) above of this section and
the information required by divisions (F)(3)(c) and (F)(3)(d) below when
replacing dunes or dune vegetation.
      (2)   Off-site compensation. Off-site compensation consists of
replacement of the affected dunes or dune vegetation in a location outside the
boundary of the property where the damage to dunes and dune vegetation
occurred. The landward limit of allowable off-site mitigation is the local dune
protection line. The city shall require that a permittee's compensation efforts
take place on the construction site unless the permittee demonstrates the
following facts to the city:
         (a)   On-site compensation is not practicable;
         (b)   The off-site compensation will be located as close to the
construction site as practicable;
         (c)   The proffered off-site compensation has achieved a one to one
ratio of proposed adverse effects on successful, completed and stabilized
restoration prior to beginning construction; and
         (d)   The permittee has notified FEMA, Region 6, of the proposed off-
site compensation.
      (3)   Information required for off-site compensation. The city shall
require permittees to provide the following information when proposing off-site
compensation:
         (a)   The name, address, phone number and fax number, if applicable,
of the owner of the property where the off-site compensation will be located;
         (b)   A legal description of property intended to be used for the
proposed off-site compensation;
         (c)   The source of sand and the dune vegetation;
         (d)   All information regarding permits and certificates issued for
the restoration of dunes on the compensation site;
         (e)   All relevant information regarding the success, current status
and stabilization of the dune restoration efforts on the compensation site;
         (f)   Any increase in potential flood damage to the site where the
adverse effects on dunes and dune vegetation will occur and to the public and
private property adjacent to that site; and
         (g)   The proposed date of initiation of the compensation. The city
shall include a condition in each permit authorizing off-site compensation
which requires permittees to notify the city in writing of the actual date of
initiation within ten working days after compensation is initiated. If the
permittee fails to begin compensation on the date proposed in the application,
the permittee shall provide the city with the reason for the delay. The city
shall take this reason into account when determining whether a permittee has
violated the compensation deadline.
   (G)   Compensation for adverse effects on dune vegetation; mitigation or
compensation deadline. The city shall require that permittees compensate for
adverse effects on dune vegetation by planting indigenous vegetation on the
affected dunes and shall consider the recommendations of the General Land
Office, federal and state natural resource agencies and dune vegetation
experts. The city may allow a permittee to use temporary sand fencing or
another approved method of dune restoration. The city shall prohibit a
permittee from compensating for adverse effects on dune vegetation by removing
existing vegetation from private or state-owned property unless the permittee
has received prior written permission from the property owner or the state. In
addition to the requirement that permission be obtained from the property
owner, all persons are prohibited from removing vegetation from a critical dune
area or seaward of a dune protection line unless specifically authorized to do
so in a dune protection permit. The city shall include conditions in the
permits requiring the permittee to provide a copy of the written permission for
vegetation removal and to identify the source of any sand and vegetation which
will be used to compensate for adverse effects on dunes and dune vegetation in
the mitigation plan contained in the permit application.
      (1)   Initiation of compensation. The city shall require permittees to
begin compensation for any adverse effect(s) to dunes and dune vegetation prior
to or concurrent with the commencement of construction. If compensation is not
completed prior to commencement of construction, the city shall require that
the permittee provide the city with proof of financial responsibility in an
amount equal to that necessary to complete the mitigation. This can be done in
the form of an irrevocable letter of credit, performance bond or any other
instrument acceptable to the city.
      (2)   Completion of compensation. The city shall require permittees to
conduct compensation efforts continuously until the repaired, rehabilitated and
restored dunes and dune vegetation are equal or superior to the pre-existing
dunes and dune vegetation. These efforts shall include preservation and
maintenance pending completion of compensation.
      (3)   The city's determination of completion of compensation. The city
shall determine a compensation project complete when the dune restoration
project's position, contour, volume, elevation and vegetative cover matches or
exceeds the surrounding naturally formed dunes.
      (4)   State agency notification of compensation certification. The city
shall provide written notification to the General Land Office after determining
that the compensation is complete. The General Land Office may conduct a field
inspection to verify compliance with this division. If the city does not
receive an objection from the General Land Office regarding the completion of
compensation within 30 working days after the General Land Office is notified
in writing, the city may certify that the compensation is complete.
      (5)   Violation of compensation deadline. The General Land Office
recognizes that the time necessary to restore dimes and dune vegetation varies
with factors such as climate, time of year, soil moisture, plant stability and
storm activity. The permittee shall be deemed to have failed to achieve
compensation if a one to one ratio has not been achieved within three years
after beginning compensation efforts.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.11 BEACHFRONT CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Required findings for beachfront construction certificate.
      (1)   Before issuance of a beachfront construction certificate, the city
must make the following two affirmative findings:
         (a)   The proposed construction is consistent with the beach access
portion of the city's dune protection and beach access plan; and
         (b)   The proposed construction activity does not encroach on the
state-owned or public beach, nor does it interfere with, or otherwise restrict
the public's right to use and have access to and from the public beach.
      (2)   If the above findings are not made, the city shall find that the
proposed construction is inconsistent with the beach access portion of the
city's dune protection and beach access plan.
   (B)   Prohibition of certification. The city shall not issue a certificate
authorizing beachfront construction if the city determines that the
construction:
      (1)   Reduces the size of the public beach in any manner;
      (2)   Closes or otherwise impairs any existing public beach access point
unless the city simultaneously provides or requires the permittee to provide
equivalent or better public access; or
      (3)   Includes a proposal to build a concrete slab or other impervious
surface within 200 feet of the line of vegetation or within the eroding area
boundary, whichever distance is greater. The city may authorize construction of
a concrete slab or other impervious surface beneath a habitable structure
elevated on pilings provided the slab will not extend beyond the perimeter of
the structure and will not be structurally attached to the building's
foundation. The city shall not authorize the construction, outside the
perimeter of a habitable structure, of a concrete slab or other impervious
surface whose area exceeds 5.0% of the footprint of the habitable structure.
The use of permeable materials such as brick pavers, limestone or gravel is
recommended for drives or parking areas.
   (C)   Encroachment on public beaches.
      (A)   Prohibition of construction on the public beach. The city shall not
issue a certificate authorizing any person to undertake any construction on the
public beach or any construction that encroaches in whole or in part on the
public beach. This prohibition does not prevent the approval of man-made
vegetated mounds and dune walkovers under a properly issued dune protection
permit and beachfront construction certificate. Any issuance or approval of a
permit, certificate or any other instrument contrary to this division is void.
      (2)   Construction landward of the public beach. The city shall not issue
any beachfront construction certificate authorizing construction landward of
the public beach that functionally supports or depends on, or is otherwise
related to, proposed or existing structures that encroach on the public beach,
regardless of whether the encroaching structure is on land that was previously
landward of the public beach.
   (D)   Dedication of new beach access points.
      (1)   Pursuant to the authority provided in the Open Beaches Act, §
61.015(g), and as a condition of beachfront construction certification as to
consistency with the city's plan, the city shall require a permittee to
dedicate to the public new public beach access or parking area(s), where
necessary, for consistency with the beach access and use, vehicular control or
beach user fee provisions of the city's dune protection and beach access plan.
The provisions shall incorporate the standards for pedestrian and vehicular
access established in Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15,
Subchapter A, § 15.7.
      (2)   The city shall require a permittee to dedicate an access area if it
issues a certificate allowing a permittee to conduct activities which will
impair access to and from the beach in any manner. Such a dedicated access area
shall provide access equivalent to or better than the access impaired by the
permittee's activity and shall be consistent with the pertinent provisions
regarding beach access and use, vehicular controls.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.12 CONCURRENT DUNE PROTECTION AND BEACHFRONT CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards. The city shall apply the following standards when issuing,
denying or conditioning dune protection permits and beachfront construction
certificates. These requirements are in addition to the requirements of §§
92.09 and
92.10 of this chapter and Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter
15, Subchapter A, §§ 15.4 and 15.5.
   (B)   Location of construction. The city shall require permittees to locate
all construction as far landward as is practicable and shall not allow any
construction which may aggravate erosion.
   (C)   Prohibition of erosion response structures. The city shall not issue a
permit or certificate allowing construction of an erosion response structure.
Notwithstanding the general prohibition on constructing erosion response
structures, the city may authorize the construction of a structural shore
protection project that conforms with the policies of the Coastal Coordination
Council promulgated in Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, § 501.26(b). However,
the city may issue a permit or certificate authorizing construction of a
retaining wall, as defined in §
92.03 of this chapter, under the following conditions. These conditions only
apply to the construction of a retaining wall; all other erosion response
structures are prohibited.
      (1)   The city shall not issue a permit authorizing the construction of a
retaining wall within the area 200 feet landward of the line of vegetation.
      (2)   The city may issue a permit authorizing construction of a retaining
wall in the area more than 200 feet landward of the line of vegetation.
   (D)   Existing erosion response structures. In no event shall the city issue
permits or certificates authorizing maintenance or repair of an existing
erosion response structure on the public beach or the enlargement or
improvement of the structure within 200 feet landward of the natural vegetation
line. Notwithstanding the general prohibition on maintaining or repairing
erosion response structures, the city may authorize the maintenance or repair
of a structural shore protection project that conforms with the policies of the
Coastal Coordination Council promulgated in Tex. Administrative Code Title 31,
§ 501.26(b). Also within 200 feet landward of the natural vegetation line, the
city shall not issue a permit or certificate allowing any person to maintain or
repair an existing erosion response structure if the structure is more than 50%
damaged, except under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When failure to repair the structure will cause unreasonable hazard
to a public building, public road, public water supply, public sewer system or
other public facility immediately landward of the structure; and
      (2)   When failure to repair the structure will cause unreasonable flood
hazard to habitable structures because adjacent erosion response structures
will channel floodwaters to the habitable structure.
   (E)   Construction in flood hazard areas.
      (1)   The city shall not issue a permit or certificate that does not
comply with FEMA's regulations governing construction in flood hazard areas.
FEMA prohibits man-made alteration of sand dunes and mangrove stands within
Zones VI-30, V and VE on the community's flood insurance rate maps which would
increase the potential for flood damage.
      (2)   The city shall inform the General Land Office and the FEMA regional
representative in the state before it issues any variance from FEMA regulations
or allows any activity done in variance of FEMA's regulations found in 44
C.F.R. Parts 59-77. Variances may adversely affect the city's participation in
the National Flood Insurance Program.
      (3)   The city shall not issue a permit or certificate that does not
comply with FEMA minimum requirements or with the FEMA-approved local ordinance
or county commissioners court order.
   (F)   Construction in eroding areas. The city shall follow the standards
provided in Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter
A, §§ 15.4-15.5 and 15.6(f) for construction in eroding areas. If there is any
conflict between Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15,
Subchapter A, §§ 15.6(f), 15.5 (relating to Dune Protection Standards) and 15.5
(relating to Beachfront Construction Standards), § 15.6(f) applies. The General
Land Office shall supply information for or assist the city in determining
eroding areas and the landward boundary of eroding areas. In addition, because
of the higher risk of damage from flooding or erosion in the areas, the city
shall:
      (1)   Require that structures built in eroding areas be elevated on
pilings in accordance with FEMA minimum standards or above the natural
elevation (whichever is greater);
      (2)   Require that structures located on property adjacent to the public
beach be designed for feasible relocation;
      (3)   Allow a permittee to alter or pave only the ground within the
footprint of the habitable structure (however, brick pavers, gravel or crushed
limestone may be used to stabilize driveways) only if the alteration or paving
will be entirely undertaken, constructed and located landward of 200 feet from
the line of vegetation or landward of an eroding area boundary established in
the city's beach and dune plan, whichever distance is greater; and
      (4)   Unless otherwise restricted by the city's plan, and if consistent
with the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program, the city may
permit the construction of breakaway or louvered walls for a storage area no
larger than 300 square feet.
   (G)   Construction affecting natural drainage patterns. The city shall not
issue a certificate or permit authorizing construction unless the construction
activities will minimize impacts on natural hydrology. The projects shall not
cause erosion of adjacent properties, critical dune areas or the public beach.
   (H)   Emergency response to oil or hazardous substance spills. Any person
responding to spills shall comply with the following regulations when cleaning
up or disposing of oil or hazardous substances in the beach and dune system.
      (1)   The state on-scene coordinator is responsible for contacting the
GLO Resource Management Division regarding proposed cleanup and disposal
methods.
      (2)   The state on-scene coordinator shall, in consultation with the
state natural resource trustees and through the incident command system,
determine the appropriate depth for excavation and the appropriate quantity of
sand to be removed, if any, from the beach and dune system.
         (a)   Spill cleanup. Cleanup methods shall avoid and otherwise
minimize adverse impacts to the beach and dune system by ensuring that:
            1.   Removal of sand from the beach is limited to the absolute
minimum and will not exacerbate shoreline erosion;
            2.   Manual cleanup methods are used, if practicable; and
            3.   Grading or scraping of the beach is minimized, and grading of
non-oiled or non-hazardous areas is prohibited.
         (b)   Disposal of contaminated sand. Disposal methods shall avoid
adverse impacts to the beach and dune system by ensuring that:
            1.   Before any scraped sand is relocated within the beach and dune
system, the material shall be tested for toxicity and percent of oiling. Only
material that does not pose a threat to human health and the environment may
remain in the beach and dune system. New dunes (man-made mounds) may be built
with nonhazardous material provided that they are built in accordance with Tex.
Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.7(e)
(relating to restored dunes on public beaches) and placed in areas pre-approved
by the state natural resource trustees. A dune protection permit is not
required for the new dune creation. The disposal shall be in accordance with
applicable, relevant and appropriate requirements established by local state
and federal laws;
            2.   Hazardous materials shall be removed and disposed of as
required by local, state and federal laws; and
            3.   Disposal of waste must be in compliance with applicable state
and federal laws and regulations of the State Natural Resources Conservation
Commission and the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Disposal of
oiled, non-hazardous sand shall be in accordance with applicable state and
federal law, except that the sand shall not be disposed of in a location on or
adjacent to dune vegetation, as defined in Tex. Administrative Code Title 31,
Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.2 (relating to Definitions).
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.13 PUBLIC BEACH MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The city recognizes and accepts its duty to clean and maintain the
public beach within its corporate boundaries as provided for in Tex. Natural
Resources Code § 61.065(a). Public beach management includes providing beach
related services such as recreational and restroom facilities, police patrol,
beach cleaning and maintenance, control of vehicular access, and the collection
of entrance or user fees. Through a reimbursement agreement between the city
and the county, the county shall clean and maintain that portion of the public
beach within the city's corporate boundaries. The city shall reimburse the
county its cost for the cleaning and maintenance for the city's percentage of
the county's total cleaning and maintenance costs on a front footage basis. The
city's reimbursement shall be paid from the city's share of beach user fees, as
set forth in §
92.16 herein, as well as that portion of reimbursement received by the city
from the General Land Office pursuant to Tex. Natural Resources Code §§ 61.061
through 61.083 for the cleaning. At a time as the county seeks to discontinue
its beach maintenance agreement with the city, or at a time as the city's
control and maintenance will better promote and enhance public beach access,
the city shall assume full responsibility for maintenance and cleaning of the
public beach.
   (B)   The city shall apply the standards set forth in Tex. Administrative
Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, §§ 15.7 for the management of
the public beach concerning:
      (1)   Construction of coastal and shore protection projects;
      (2)   Monitoring of the effects of a coastal and shore protection
project;
      (3)   Beach nourishment projects;
      (4)   Creation and restoration of dunes; and
      (5)   Dune walkovers.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.14 BEACH ACCESS AND USE PLAN.
   (A)   As of the date of enactment of this chapter, the public beach area
within the city limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction of Port Isabel North
is vehicular access controlled by the county. Pedestrian access to the beach
across private property is largely unrestricted. Pedestrian and vehicular
access is provided at Beach Access points No. 4, No. 5 and No. 6. Entrance fees
($3) are collected on a per-vehicle basis from Beach Access points No. 5 and
No. 6. There is no charge for pedestrian access. Signage for parking and access
is provided by the county. A map of the access system showing existing access
points is attached to Ordinance 663 hereto as Exhibit A, a copy of which is
available in the office of the City Secretary. A status of beach access is
attached to Ordinance 663 hereto as Exhibit B, a copy of which is available in
the office of the City Secretary.
   (B)   The city shall regulate pedestrian beach access, traffic and parking
on or near the beach in a manner that preserves or enhances the public right to
use and have access to and from the beach.
   (C)   No construction activity or development in the area described in Tex.
Natural Resources Code § 61.011(d)(6) shall be allowed to interfere with or
diminish any existing, designated or proposed access for pedestrian passage or
vehicular parking area.
   (D)   The city shall not abandon, relinquish or convey any right, title,
easement, right-of-way, street, path or other interest that provides existing
or potential beach access, unless an alternative equivalent or better beach
access is provided for by the city.
   (E)   Beach maintenance activities which would materially weaken sand dunes
or dune vegetation or reduce the protective function of dunes is prohibited.
Beach maintenance activities which will result in a significant redistribution
of sand or which will significantly alter the beach profile or the line of
vegetation are prohibited. All sand moved or redistributed from beach
maintenance activities shall be returned to the area between the line of
vegetation and the mean high tide.
   (F)   The city shall not cause or allow any sign, marker or warning to be
displayed on a public beach which indicates that the public beach is private
property, or which would interfere with legal public access to or from the
public beach.
   (G)   As of the date of enactment of this chapter, the public beach area
within the city limits of Port Isabel South is located within Isla Blanca Park,
a park owned and operated by the county. Pedestrian entrance to the park and
access to the beach is free of charge. Vehicular access is provided at the
entrance. Entrance fees ($4) are collected on a per-vehicle basis by the
county. Vehicle parking, restroom facilities and recreational facilities are
abundant. Access to the beach is unobstructed. The city will require and apply
the rules, as outlined above in this section, to Isla Blanca Park and all other
areas within the city's extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.15 VEHICULAR CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   Residential and commercial development of the area adjacent to the
public beach in Port Isabel North is inevitable. At some point in the future,
continuation and proliferation of vehicular traffic on some or all of the beach
located within the city may pose a substantial risk to the health, safety and
welfare of citizens and visitors to the beach. If and when the danger and
adverse effects of continuing vehicular traffic outweigh its utility, the City
Commission will prohibit vehicular traffic in some or all areas of the affected
area. The prohibition of vehicular traffic will be coordinated with the county
which presently controls vehicular access to the beach. In the event of closure
of any part of the beach to vehicular traffic, all areas in which vehicular
traffic is allowed shall have vehicular access from Park Road 100.
   (B)   In anticipation of long-range future development and the possibility
of closure of all or part of the beach fronting the development to vehicular
traffic, the city shall require that all large development projects, such as
hotels and condominiums, make provision for vehicular parking for the general
public, over and above that amount of vehicular parking which is required by
the city's zoning ordinance for the size and nature of the development project.
The parking shall be separately designated with adequate signage for beach user
parking and shall provide a minimum of one parking space for every 15 feet of
beach frontage of the development. The city's preferred location for parking
shall be a cul-de-sac design leading from Park Road 100 to the beach area, such
as Access Point No. 4, which provides parking and also serves as a pedestrian
access to the beach. The city shall encourage developers to provide preferred
parking locations wherever it is feasible.
   (C)   In addition, each development shall provide an easement, no less than
ten feet in width, for pedestrian traffic from the public parking area either
directly to the public beach or to the nearest public pedestrian access to the
public beach. Where access requires dune walkovers, developers shall provide
same for beach access. Parking areas and beach access points which are designed
to accommodate access for persons with disabilities shall provide appropriate
parking spaces and signage for same. To the extent practicable, all parking
areas and beach access for pedestrians shall be designed for persons with
disabilities and all facilities shall be designed, constructed and maintained
in conformity with the appropriate federal and state laws and regulations for
the facilities.
   (D)   In the event of closure of all or part of the beach to vehicular
traffic, the city shall require equivalent or better public beach access and
vehicular parking. Beach Access points No. 4, No. 5 and No. 6 shall remain as
access points. Access points No. 5 and No. 6 shall have vehicular parking areas
near the beach. The city shall provide or require provisions for parking which
will accommodate one car for each 15 linear feet of beach closed to vehicular
traffic. In areas where vehicular traffic is prohibited, the city shall provide
or require provisions for public pedestrian access ways to and from the beach
which are no farther than one-half mile apart. It shall be the policy of the
city to encourage, facilitate and require public pedestrian access at more
frequent intervals if the access would be beneficial for public beach access.
The city shall adopt uniform signage requirements and shall provide an adequate
number of readily legible street signs, visible from both directions, for
vehicular parking and pedestrian access passage.
   (E)   Prior to closure of any area of beach to vehicular traffic, the city
shall submit the details of closure to the General Land Office as a plan
amendment. The amendment shall specify the area of beach to be closed, the
existing vehicular access points before and after closure, the locations for
public parking, the number of parking spaces for each location, the locations
of public access easements and the details of all other requirements set forth
above herein. The amendment shall certify that the requirements set forth
herein and the Beach and Dune Rules currently set forth in Tex. Administrative
Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.7(h) have been provided
for and will be implemented prior to closure to vehicular traffic. Upon review
and verification that the requirements have been met, the General Land Office
will approve the amended vehicular control plan.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.16 BEACH USER FEES.
   (A)   As of the date of enactment of this chapter, entrance to the public
beach area within the city limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction of Port
Isabel North is free for pedestrians and is vehicular access controlled by the
county, which operates county-owned parks at the existing vehicular access
points. The city may charge a beach user fee of up to $3 per vehicle per day
for driving and parking on public beach areas within the jurisdiction of the
city that are not owned by the county. The beach user fee will be collected on
behalf of the city by county personnel at access points controlled by the
county. No charge for pedestrian access will be allowed.
   (B)   Under a reciprocity agreement with the county, beach users who pay an
entrance fee at vehicular access points at county owned parks are entitled to
drive and park on any public beach within either jurisdiction where vehicular
access is permitted.
   (C)   Through an agreement between the city and county, the beach user fee
shall be collected on behalf of the city by the county. The percentage of total
beach user fee revenue collected by the county on behalf of the city shall be
the same percentage as used for determining the percentage of the city's share
of beach cleaning and maintenance as set forth in §
92.13 herein. At a time as the county seeks to modify some or all of its beach
maintenance activities within the city, or at a time as the city provides
additional public services and facilities directly related to the public beach,
the city will coordinate and plan an amended fee structure agreement with the
county. Any future plan by the city to alter the beach user fee structure set
forth herein shall be made pursuant to Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, Part
1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.8 and will occur only after amendment of this
chapter in accordance with Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, Part 1, Chapter
15, Subchapter A, § 15.3(o).
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.17 CRIMINAL OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful and a criminal offense for any person to:
   (A)   Damage, destroy or remove a sand dune or portion of sand dune seaward
of the dune protection line, as prohibited in §
92.06 herein;
   (B)   Kill, destroy or remove in any manner any vegetation growing on a sand
dune seaward of the dune protection line, as prohibited in §
92.06 herein;
   (C)   Cause, engage in or allow construction activity on land adjacent to
and landward of the public beach in the area designated in §
92.06(B) of this chapter without first having been properly issued a beachfront
construction certificate by the city, as prohibited in §
92.06 herein;
   (D)   Cause, engage in or allow construction activity in any area of public
beach or state-owned beach, as prohibited in §
92.06 herein;
   (E)   Violate any term or condition of a dune protection permit or
beachfront construction certificate required and issued under §
92.08 herein;
   (F)   Knowingly attempt to diminish, restrict, inhibit, lessen or close any
established pedestrian public beach access way or route without first obtaining
the appropriate permit or certificate from the city;
   (G)   Knowingly violate any other provision of this chapter; or
   (H)   Violate any state laws incorporated by §
92.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to the criminal penalties provided by the chapter and by state
law, the City Attorney or his or her designee may enforce the provisions of
this chapter through any and all civil remedies available. Civil remedies
available shall include orders for removal, restoration and remediation. In
that event, persons against whom civil enforcement is sought and against whom a
civil remedy is granted, shall also be liable for damages, court costs,
attorney's fees and all costs and expenses reasonably related to the civil
enforcement action.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   A person who commits a criminal offense under §
92.17 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
shall be punished by a fine in an amount not to exceed $500 per offense.
(Ord. 663, passed 2-22-2005)
CHAPTER 93: CITY CEMETERY
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Establishment of city cemetery
   
93.03   Dedication of cemetery property
   
93.04   Cemetery design
   
93.05   Care and maintenance
   
93.06   Sale of gravesites; conditions of sale
   
93.07   Records of gravesites
   
93.08   Records of interment
   
93.09   Rights of interment
   
93.10   Interment
   
93.11   Opening and closing of graves
   
93.12   Memorials
   
93.13   Transfer of gravesite ownership
   
93.14   Disinterments and removals
   
93.15   Deposit and use of funds
   
93.16   Sole agreement
   
93.17   Incorporation by reference
   
93.18   Civil enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FUNERAL DIRECTOR. The person which has been engaged to conduct a funeral. If
no person has been engaged to conduct the funeral, then the owner of the
gravesite shall be the FUNERAL DIRECTOR. If the owner of the gravesite is
deceased, then the next-of-kin or person designated by law or authorized
directive shall be the FUNERAL DIRECTOR.
   INTERMENT. The burial of human remains in the earth within the area of a
particular gravesite.
   MEMORIAL. Any monument, marker, tablet or name plate upon a gravesite for
the purpose of identification or in memory of a deceased person.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, partnership, corporation, company, venture,
association, trust, estate, foundation, institution, organization, group,
governmental agency or subdivision, and any other entity recognized by law as
the subject of rights and duties whether operated for profit or not for profit.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 93.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY CEMETERY.
   The city hereby establishes a municipal cemetery to be known as the city
cemetery. The cemetery shall be located on the property described on Exhibit 1
attached to Ordinance 662 hereto and incorporated by reference as if set forth
verbatim herein.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 93.03 DEDICATION OF CEMETERY PROPERTY.
   In accordance with Tex. Health and Safety Code § 711.034, a survey and
subdivision plat of the cemetery shall be prepared showing each specific
numbered gravesite and the plat shall be filed with the County Clerk for
recording together with a written dedication of the property for cemetery
purposes. The dedication shall reserve the right to redesign the plat so long
as the redesign does not interfere with interred remains.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 93.04 CEMETERY DESIGN.
   The city cemetery hereby created shall contain approximately 532 gravesites
and shall be constructed in accordance with the plans attached hereto as
Exhibit 2, attached to Ordinance 662, the exhibit being incorporated by
reference as if set forth verbatim herein. The construction and future
maintenance of the cemetery shall incorporate continued pedestrian access to
the existing adjacent cemetery.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 93.05 CARE AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The city shall be responsible for the general care and maintenance of
the cemetery. The care and maintenance shall include:
      (1)   Watering and cutting of grass at reasonable intervals;
      (2)   Raking and cleaning at reasonable intervals;
      (3)   Reseeding and resodding;
      (4)   Maintaining the proper placement of markers;
      (5)   Preservation of walls, walkways, fences, shrubs; and
      (6)   Maintenance of plumbing, drainage, lighting and electrical systems.
   (B)   The city shall not be responsible for damage to a particular grave
caused by an act of God, theft, vandalism, malicious mischief, explosion,
accident, terrorism, riot or action of any military or civil authority.
   (C)   The cemetery shall be open for visitation during daylight hours
between the time of sunrise and sunset.
   (D)   The city reserves the right to enlarge, reduce, replat or change the
boundaries and grade of the cemetery, including the right to change the
location of roads, walks and parking and the right to change or alter
pipelines, gutters, watering systems, drainage, lighting and electrical
systems.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 93.06 SALE OF GRAVESITES; CONDITIONS OF SALE.
   The price of gravesites in the city cemetery and other charges shall be
fixed, by resolution, from time to time by the City Commission. The city may
designate or contract with a person to sell gravesites, to provide opening and
closing of gravesite services, and otherwise assist in the operation of the
cemetery. Gravesites may not be sold to any person for the purpose of resale
for profit and the sale or transfer of a gravesite for profit is prohibited.
All persons requesting the purchase of a gravesite shall complete an
application and, upon full payment, shall receive from the city a certificate
conveying the gravesite to the person purchasing the gravesite. The certificate
shall provide, as a condition to transfer and as a covenant to run with the
land, that the transfer is subject to the provisions of this chapter and
reasonable rules and regulations as the City Commission may adopt from time to
time relative to the use and maintenance of the cemetery. Every person
purchasing a gravesite shall acknowledge in writing a statement that they have
received a copy of this chapter and any then applicable rules and regulations
pertaining to the cemetery and that they have accepted their terms and will
abide by their provisions.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 RECORDS OF GRAVESITES.
   The city shall keep a permanent record in which shall be kept, in
alphabetical order, the name and address of the person purchasing a gravesite,
the date and amount of purchase, the number and location of the gravesite and
other information as the city shall deem necessary or proper.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 93.08 RECORDS OF INTERMENT.
   At the time of the burial of a person in a gravesite, the person who has
arranged for the opening of the grave shall notify the city of the burial and
shall provide the name and other identifying information of the person buried.
The information, including the date the remains are interred, shall be recorded
by the city in a permanent record. The names of the deceased shall be kept in
alphabetical order and cross-referenced to gravesite number and location.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 93.09 RIGHTS OF INTERMENT.
   The rights of interment as set forth in Tex. Health and Safety Code §
711.039 shall be observed. To the extent not inconsistent therewith, the rights
of interment in the city cemetery shall be as follows.
   (A)   A gravesite in which the exclusive right of burial is conveyed is
presumed to be the separate property of the person named as grantee in the
certificate of ownership or other instrument of conveyance.
   (B)   The spouse of a person to whom the exclusive right of burial in one or
more gravesites has been conveyed has a vested right of interment of the
spouse's remains in an unused gravesite while the spouse is married to the
gravesite owner or if the spouse is married to the gravesite owner at the time
of the owner's death.
   (C)   An attempted conveyance or other action without the joint or written
attached consent of the spouse of the gravesite owner does not divest the
spouse of the vested right of interment.
   (D)   The vested right of interment is terminated:
      (1)   On the final decree of divorce between the gravesite owner and the
owner's former spouse unless the decree provides otherwise; or
      (2)   When the remains of the person having the vested right are interred
elsewhere.
   (E)   Unless an owner of two or more gravesites, who has the exclusive right
of burial in the gravesites, has made a specific disposition of the remaining
gravesites in the owner's will or by written declaration filed and recorded in
the office of the City Secretary:
      (1)   An unused gravesite shall be reserved for the surviving spouse of
the gravesite owner; and
      (2)   The owner's children, in order of need, may be interred in any
remaining gravesites without the consent of a person claiming an interest in
the gravesite.
   (F)   The surviving spouse or child of an interred gravesite owner may each
waive his or her right of interment in additional gravesites in favor of a
relative of the owner or relative of the owner's spouse. The person in whose
favor the waiver is made may be interred in the gravesite.
   (G)   The exclusive right of burial in an unused gravesite of a group of one
or more unused gravesites, in which the owner has been interred in one, may be
conveyed only by:
      (1)   Specific disposition of the unused grave by express reference to it
in a will or by a written declaration of the gravesite owner filed and recorded
in the office of the City Finance Department; or
      (2)   The surviving spouse, if any, and the heirs-at-law of the owner.
   (H)   Unless a deceased gravesite owner, who has the exclusive right of
burial in a gravesite and who is not interred in the gravesite, has otherwise
made specific disposition of the gravesite, the exclusive right of burial in
the gravesite, except for one gravesite reserved for the surviving spouse, if
any, vests on the death of the owner's heirs-at-law and may be conveyed by
them.
   (I)   Two or more owners of a gravesite may designate a person to represent
them in the use of the gravesite and they may file with the city a written
notice of the designation. If notice is not filed, the city may permit an
interment in the gravesite at the request or discretion of either registered
co-owner of the gravesite.
   (J)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a gravesite to keep the city
informed in writing of his or her current mailing address.
   (K)   An owner or owners of a gravesite may not subdivide the gravesite.
   (L)   The city reserves to itself and lawful visitors a perpetual right of
ingress and egress over gravesites for the passage to and from other
gravesites.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 INTERMENT.
   (A)   In addition to being subject to the rules and regulations contained
within this chapter all interments, disinterments and removal of remains are
subject to the laws of the state.
   (B)   The city shall require a minimum of 24 hours notice prior to
interment.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to correct errors in interment,
disinterment and removal or in the description, transfer or conveyance of
gravesites, either by cancellation and conveyance of a gravesite of equal value
and location selected by the city, or in the sole discretion of the city, by
refunding all amounts paid for the gravesite. If an error involves the
interment of remains in the wrong gravesite, the city shall have the right to
remove the remains to such other site of equal value as may be practical and
shall convey ownership to the new gravesite.
   (D)   No interment shall be permitted or marker placed on a gravesite until
the purchase price has been paid in full.
   (E)   The following interment will be allowed in a single gravesite:
      (1)   One person’s bodily remains and four persons’ cremated remains;
      (2)   Four persons cremated remains; or
      (3)   Two persons’ bodily remains if more than 30 years have passed since
the burial of the first person’s remains and four persons’ cremated remains.
   (F)   All vaults shall be placed below the surface of the ground a
sufficient depth to permit dirt and sod coverage. Exposed vaults are
prohibited.
   (G)   A casket containing human remains shall not be opened on the cemetery
premises by a funeral director, his or her agent or employee without the
consent of a legal representative of the deceased or by an order of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (H)   While a funeral service is being conducted, all work of any kind shall
cease during the service.
   (I)   When the location of a gravesite is unknown or indefinite, or for any
reason the gravesite cannot be opened where specified, the city may allow the
use of another gravesite in order to prevent the delay of a funeral.
   (J)   Only human remains may be buried in the cemetery.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004; Am. Ord. 662-A, passed 7-25-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 OPENING AND CLOSING OF GRAVES.
   (A)   After the city has designated and/or marked the gravesite, the opening
and closing of the grave shall be the sole responsibility of the person allowed
or designated by the city to open and close graves.
   (B)   Any person who is retained to open and close graves shall be subject
to the insurance and bonding requirements as the city has or may in the future
establish for the contractors. The city reserves the right to designate a
person who shall open and close graves and shall provide the equipment,
furniture and tents necessary for burials and funerals.
   (C)   Any damage to gravesites or the cemetery done in the process of
opening or closing of graves shall be the joint and several responsibility of
the funeral director and the person retained to open and close the grave. Any
damage must be repaired within five days.
   (D)   All persons engaged in opening and closing graves, placing markers or
other funeral activity, shall be neat and shall not scatter materials or
equipment over adjoining gravesites nor unnecessarily block walkways nor leave
materials or equipment on the premises longer than required. After completion
of work, all debris shall be removed and the ground and sod shall be restored
to its original condition without delay.
   (E)   No material, equipment or other implements associated with funeral
activity may be placed or stored in the cemetery until required for immediate
use. No such materials may be placed or stored on adjacent or nearby properties
without express permission of the city.
   (F)   The city reserves the right to stop all work of any nature whenever
proper preparation has not been made; tools and machinery are insufficient,
improper or defective; the work in progress is a threat to health or property;
when a reasonable request of the city is disregarded; when work is not
according to specifications; or when this chapter or the city's rules are being
violated.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12 MEMORIALS.
   (A)   The size and shape of memorials shall be regulated in order to protect
graves and in order that graves be cared for under uniform conditions. The city
reserves the right to regulate and permit memorial companies placing memorials
in the cemetery.
   (B)   Memorials may be no wider than 36 inches, no more than 36 inches in
height, and no more than 12 inches in thickness. The sole exceptions to these
size limits for memorials shall be memorials for veterans which are designed
according to military custom and double upright memorials for persons buried
side by side, the memorials not to exceed 72 inches in width.
   (C)   Other than memorials no structures of any kind may be erected or
placed upon the gravesite which protrude above the surface of the ground.
   (D)   No alteration of the landscape nor change of grade of a gravesite
shall be permitted.
   (E)   No coping, curb, fence, mound, border, shrubbery or enclosure of a
gravesite shall be permitted.
   (F)   Other than an authorized memorial, no other type of object embedded in
or on top of the ground is permitted on the gravesite.
   (G)   All temporary memorials will be removed within six months of
interment.
   (H)   All objects placed on gravesites, even if temporary in nature, may be
removed and discarded for the purpose of facilitating the maintenance of the
cemetery.
   (I)   Flowers may be placed on graves, however glass containers and other
breakable or hazardous objects are not permitted on a grave.
   (J)   The city reserves the right to correct an error in the location or
placement of a memorial.
   (K)   All flowers, wreaths, garlands, lights, photographs and other
materials placed upon graves are subject to removal, and will be removed no
less than twice per year. An annual clean up will be held at least in the
second week of May and first week of November each year.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004; Am. Ord. 662-A, passed 7-25-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.13 TRANSFER OF GRAVESITE OWNERSHIP.
   The transfer of ownership of a gravesite shall not be recognized by the city
unless the transfer of ownership has been recorded in the office of the City
Finance Department. Upon surrender of a certificate of conveyance and payment
of the appropriate fees, the city shall record the transfer of ownership and
reissue a certificate to the new owner of the gravesite. In the event of
transfer by operation of law, such as inheritance, the city, after being
presented with sufficient proof of ownership and payment of the fee for
recording the transfer of ownership, shall record the transfer and, if
requested by the new owner, reissue a new certificate.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14 DISINTERMENTS AND REMOVALS.
   All disinterments and removals are to be conducted by qualified funeral
homes or contractors. The city shall provide the gravesite information to the
qualified funeral home or contractor for the disinterment.
   (A)   To more desirable gravesite. A body may be removed from its original
gravesite to a larger or more desirable gravesite when there has been an
exchange or purchase for that purpose and proper consent is obtained.
   (B)   Care in removal. Funeral homes or contractors must ensure that the
utmost care is taken in undertaking a removal. The city shall not be liable for
damage to a casket, burial case or urn sustained in the removal.
   (C)   Removal for profit. Removal of remains for the purpose of resale of
the gravesite for profit, or removal contrary to the expressed or implied
desire to the original gravesite owner, is repugnant to the ordinary sense of
decency and is prohibited.
   (D)   Removal for autopsy. Remains may be removed for autopsy only upon
written consent as prescribed in division (E) below of this section or by order
of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   Consent. Remains interred in a cemetery may be removed in accordance
with Tex. Health and Safety Code § 711.004 requiring the written consent of the
city and the written consent of the current gravesite owner or owners and of
the following persons, in the priority listed:
      (1)   The decedent's surviving spouse;
      (2)   The decedent's surviving adult children;
      (3)   The decedent's surviving parents;
      (4)   The decedent's adult siblings; or
      (5)   The adult person in the next degree of heirship in the order named
by law to inherit the estate of the deceased.
   (F)   Status of consent givers. A person listed in division (E) above of
this section may consent to the removal only if there is no person in a
priority listed before the person.
   (G)   Consent of court. If the consent required by division (E) above of
this section cannot be obtained, the remains may be removed by permission of a
county court. Before the date of application to the court for consent to remove
remains under this section, written notice shall be given by the applicant to:
      (1)   The city;
      (2)   Each person whose consent is required for removal under division
(E) above of this section; and
      (3)   Any other person that the court requires to be served.
   (H)   Notice. For the purposes of division (G) above of this section,
personal notice must be given not later than the eleventh day before the date
of the application to the court for permission to remove the remains or a
notice by certified or registered mail must be given not later than the
sixteenth day before the date of the application.
   (I)   Removal requires order of state registrar or county court; record of
order. Remains may not be removed from the cemetery except on the written order
of the state registrar or the state registrar's designee having jurisdiction of
the cemetery or the county court. The city shall keep a duplicate copy of the
order as part of its records.
   (J)   Record of removal to be kept by remover. A person who removes the
remains from a cemetery shall keep a record of the removal that includes:
      (1)   The date the remains are removed;
      (2)   The name and age at death of the decedent if those facts can be
conveniently obtained;
      (3)   The place to which the remains are removed; and
      (4)   The gravesite location from which the remains were removed.
   (K)   Disposition of remains not reinterred. If the remains are not
reinterred, the person who removes the remains shall make and keep a record of
the disposition of the remains.
   (L)   Copies of records required by divisions (J) and (K) of this section to
be forwarded to city. A person who removes remains from a cemetery shall give
the city a copy of the record required by divisions (J) and (K) above of this
section, and the city shall keep the copy as a part of its records.
   (M)   Oversight of removals. The city shall have the right to oversee the
removal of remains from the cemetery.
   (N)   Permits required. The city shall require permits as may be provided by
law or order of a court of competent jurisdiction for removal or disinterment.
   (O)   State law controls. To the extent that the provisions of Tex. Health
and Safety Code § 711.004 or other applicable state law, now or in the future,
conflict with or supercede the provisions of this section concerning removals
and disinterments of remains, Tex. Health and Safety Code § 711.004 or other
applicable state law shall control.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.15 DEPOSIT AND USE OF FUNDS.
   The city, through its Finance Director, shall deposit all funds paid for
gravesites and other charges in a special cemetery fund. These funds shall be
invested and reinvested in accounts, securities and institutions as are
authorized by the laws of the state and not inconsistent with the city's
investment policy.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 93.16 SOLE AGREEMENT.
   This chapter and any amendment thereto shall constitute the sole and entire
agreement between the city and the gravesite owner and same shall be binding
upon his or her heirs, agents, assigns and successors. No statement, promise or
representation made by any city employee or official, contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, shall be binding upon the city. In the event of a
dispute as to the meaning of any of the provisions of this chapter, the
decision of the city shall be final.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 93.17 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   Reference to this chapter, or any amendment thereto, in the certificate of
ownership of a gravesite or in a letter, document, instrument or writing shall
have the same force and effect as if this chapter was fully set forth therein.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 93.18 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to the criminal penalties provided by the chapter and by state
law, the City Attorney or his or her designee may enforce the provisions of
this chapter through any and all civil remedies available. In that event,
persons against whom enforcement is sought and against whom a civil remedy is
granted, shall also be liable for damages, court costs, attorney's fees and
expenses reasonably related to the civil enforcement action.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, knowingly, recklessly
or negligently violate the provisions of this chapter. Any person who so
violates a provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, fined in an amount not to exceed $2,000 per violation.
(Ord. 662, passed 9-14-2004)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Applicability of chapter
   
94.03   Unlawful property conditions; declaration of nuisance
   
94.04   Duty to maintain lawns and premises
   
94.05   Notice of violation
   
94.06   Abatement of condition; liability for expenses
   
94.07   Authority to enter premises
   
94.08   Charges by the city
   
94.09   Lien against premises
   
94.10   Criminal offense
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way generally 20 feet in width used for public utility
purposes and as an alternate, secondary or emergency route for vehicle and
pedestrian traffic generally situated at the rear of a property lot.
   BRUSH. Any vegetation other than tall grass, tall weeds, trees or ornamental
shrubbery.
   BULKY WASTE. Household items such as stoves, refrigerators, water heaters,
washing machines, bedding, furniture, but does not include rubbish,
construction debris or hazardous waste.
   CITY. The City of Port Isabel, Texas.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials resulting from roofing,
construction, remodeling, repair or demolition, including waste materials
generated by a commercial contractor, and not including bulky waste, rubbish or
hazardous waste.
   CURB. The concrete or stone edging of a street or road.
   GARBAGE. Waste and trash generated by human habitation and businesses, but
does not include rubbish, bulky waste, construction debris or hazardous waste.
   GUTTER. The concrete trough, between the pavement of the street or road and
the curb, intended to channel the flow of water.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste which is defined or characterized by a governmental
agency as hazardous or requiring special disposition such as tires, petroleum
products and containers, automobile batteries and similar items.
   LITTER. Waste materials as defined by Tex. Health and Safety Code § 365.011.
   OCCUPANT. The resident, tenant, lessee, manager, supervisor or person in
charge of the premises and the person in whose name the utilities are billed.
If the occupant of the premises and the person to whom utilities are billed are
not the same persons, then each shall be and are hereby deemed to be the
OCCUPANT for purposes of this chapter. In the event the occupant is a business
entity, each officer, director, member, manager and partner of the entity shall
be and are hereby deemed to be the OCCUPANT for purposes of this chapter and
each shall be jointly and severally liable and criminally responsible for the
provisions of this chapter.
   OWNER. The fee title holder of the premises and the person in whose name ad
valorem taxes are billed. If the person to whom the ad valorem taxes are billed
is not the same person as the fee title holder, then each shall be and are
hereby deemed to be the OWNER for purposes of this chapter. In the event the
owner is a business entity, each officer, director, member, manager and partner
shall be and are hereby deemed to be the OWNER for purposes of this chapter and
each shall be jointly and severally liable and criminally responsible for the
provisions of this chapter.
   PERSON. Whether an owner or occupant as defined herein, means and includes
any individual, partnership, corporation, company, venture, association, trust,
estate, foundation, institution, organization, group, governmental agency and
any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties whether
operated for profit or not for profit.
   PREMISES. A lot, tract or parcel of land located within the city limits of
the city or within its extraterritorial jurisdiction used for residential,
commercial or any other purpose and includes that portion of the right-of-way
of the street or road adjacent thereto up to and including the curb and gutter
of the street or road.
   RUBBISH. Clean waste wood, wood products, yard waste, tree limbs and
trimmings, grass cuttings, shrubs, plants, weeds, leaves, printed material,
paper, pasteboard, rags, discarded clothing and similar household waste, but
not including bulky waste, construction debris or hazardous waste.
   TALL GRASS. Grass which exceeds 12 inches in height.
   TALL WEEDS. Vegetation other than trees or ornamental shrubbery which exceed
18 inches in height.
(Ord. 632, passed 11-25-2003)
§ 94.02 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the entire area within the
corporate limits of the city, to that area within 5,000 feet outside the city's
corporate limits, and, to the extent allowed by law, to the entire
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 632, passed 11-25-2003)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PROPERTY CONDITIONS; DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   The hereinafter described unlawful property conditions are hereby declared
to constitute a public nuisance. It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant
of any premises to permit or allow the following conditions to exist on the
premises:
   (A)   Accumulation of stagnant water;
   (B)   Holes, depressions, places or objects where water may accumulate and
become stagnant;
   (C)   Accumulation of carrion, filth, hazardous waste or other impure,
unwholesome or unsanitary matter;
   (D)   Tall grass, tall weeds or brush;
   (E)   Rubbish, construction debris, bulky waste, spilled or uncontained
garbage, loose papers, bagged garbage, discarded containers, broken glass,
litter or any other thing or substance which is objectionable, unsightly or
unsanitary;
   (F)   Accumulation of grass, clippings, rubbish, litter, weeds or dirt on
the curb or in the gutter;
   (G)   Bare or unpaved soil which, due to its elevation or location, after
rainfall, is transferred into the gutter by the flow of water or tracked onto
the street by vehicular traffic traveling from the premises; and
   (H)   Any condition, thing or substance which constitutes a nuisance or
health hazard.
(Ord. 632, passed 11-25-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 DUTY TO MAINTAIN LAWNS AND PREMISES.
   The owner and occupant of a premises shall be responsible for the regular
mowing and maintenance of premises and lawns, including regular cleaning of the
curb and gutter, in order to prevent the unlawful property conditions set forth
in §
94.03.
(Ord. 632, passed 11-25-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The city shall notify the owner and occupant of any premises in violation of
§
94.03 of this chapter. Notice shall be given in writing either by delivery in
person or by letter addressed to occupant of the premises and the owner of the
premises at the owner's address as recorded in the appraisal district records.
If service of the notice cannot be obtained by personal delivery or mail, the
city shall give notice as provided by Tex. Health and Safety Code § 342.006.
(Ord. 632, passed 11-25-2003)
§ 94.06 ABATEMENT OF CONDITION; LIABILITY FOR EXPENSES.
   (A)   If the owner or occupant of a premises does not remedy the unlawful
property condition within seven days of the giving of notice of violation, the
city may either:
      (1)   Remedy the condition itself; or
      (2)   Pay another person to remedy the condition.
   (B)   (1)   The owner and occupant of the premises are jointly and severally
liable for the expenses incurred by the city in remedying the unlawful property
condition.
      (2)   In addition, the expenses incurred by the city shall be assessed
against the premises as a lien.
(Ord. 632, passed 11-25-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 AUTHORITY TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The City Health Officer, an agent appointed by the city or an employee of
the city charged with the enforcement of health, environmental, safety or fire
laws may enter any premises in the city at a reasonable time to inspect,
investigate or abate a condition prohibited by §
94.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. 632A, passed 3-13-2007)
§ 94.08 CHARGES BY THE CITY.
   (A)   A statement of expenses shall be prepared by the city for expenses
incurred in remedying an unlawful property condition and the statement shall be
mailed to the owner and occupant. The charges shall be due and paid no later
than 30 days from the date of mailing of the city's statement of expenses.
   (B)   The charges for remedying an unlawful condition shall be calculated by
the Finance Director and shall be based on the cost to the city plus an
administrative and processing fee of 40% of the cost, plus applicable taxes.
The minimum charge shall be $100, plus applicable taxes.
   (C)   The charges for collection of garbage in or near the alley of a
premises which has accumulated, due to the discontinuation of garbage
collection service or due to the failure to apply and pay for garbage
collection service, shall be $50 per collection, regardless of whether the
collection is by city personnel or the city's regularly scheduled garbage
collection service provider.
(Ord. 632, passed 11-25-2003)
§ 94.09 LIEN AGAINST PREMISES.
   (A)   If the charges set forth in the city's statement of expenses are not
timely paid, the City Manager or Code Enforcement Officer shall file with the
County Clerk a statement of expenses in the form of a municipal lien.
   (B)   The lien shall state the name of the owner of the property, if known,
the legal description of the property, a brief description of the work done or
improvements made, the date of the work or improvements and the amount due to
the city, the amount to include all expenses, including attorney's fees and
filing fees, incurred in preparing and filing the lien.
   (C)   The amount due shall accrue annual interest in the amount of 10% from
the date of performance of the work or improvement.
   (D)   The lien shall be inferior only to tax liens and liens for street
improvements. Suit may be instituted by the City Manager in the name of the
city for recovery of the expenses and foreclosure of the lien.
(Ord. 632, passed 11-25-2003)
§ 94.10 CRIMINAL OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful and a criminal offense for any person who is an owner
or occupant, after the city has given notice under §
94.05, to permit or allow any of the unlawful property conditions prohibited by
§
94.03 to exist on a premises, or to interfere with the right of the city to
enter any premises for the purpose of inspecting, investigating or abating a
nuisance, or otherwise enforcing this chapter as granted in §
94.07 hereof.
(Ord. 632, passed 11-25-2003; Ord. 632A, passed 3-13-2007) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. A person who commits an offense under this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine in an
amount not to exceed $2,000 per offense.
   (B)   Civil remedies and enforcement. In addition to the criminal
enforcement and other remedial provisions provided by this chapter and by state
law, the City Attorney or his or her designee may enforce the provisions of
this chapter through any and all civil remedies available. The civil remedies
shall include the right to bring an action against any owner or occupant in
violation of the provisions of this chapter seeking injunctive relief and civil
penalties pursuant to Tex. Loc. Gov't Code §§ 54.016 and 54.017. In the event
of bringing a civil enforcement action, persons against whom enforcement is
sought and against whom a civil remedy is granted, shall be liable for civil
penalties, damages, court costs, attorney fees, and all costs and expenses
reasonably related to the civil enforcement action.
(Ord. 632, passed 11-25-2003)
CHAPTER 95: EXCAVATIONS AND CURB CUTS
Section
   
95.01   Permit required
   
95.02   Applications
   
95.03   Fees
   
95.04   Bond
   
95.05   Manner of excavating
   
95.06   Sidewalks
   
95.07   Restoring surface
   
95.08   Supervision
   
95.09   Tunneling required
   
95.10   Protective measures
   
95.11   Clearance for vital structures
   
95.12   Protection of traffic
   
95.13   Relocation and protection of utilities
   
95.14   Abandonment of substructures
   
95.15   Protection of adjoining property
   
95.16   Placement of excavated material
   
95.17   Cleanup
   
95.18   Protection of waterways
   
95.19   Breaking through pavement
   
95.20   Depth of structures
   
95.21   Backfilling
   
95.22   Trenches
   
95.23   Prompt completion of work
   
95.24   Emergency
   
95.25   Noise, dust and debris
   
95.26   Preservation of monuments
   
95.27   Inspections
   
95.28   Records
   
95.29   Appeal
   
95.30   Curb cuts
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the city
without having obtained a permit as is herein required, or without complying in
full with the provisions of this chapter or in violation of or variance from
the terms of any permit issued pursuant hereto.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for the permits shall be made to the City Secretary, and shall
describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof,
the purpose therefor and the person, firm or corporation doing the actual
excavating work and the name of the person, firm or corporation for whom or
which the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that the applicant
will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be done.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984)
§ 95.03 FEES.
   The fee for the permit shall be $50.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984)
§ 95.04 BOND.
   No permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has filed
with the City Secretary a bond in the sum of $50,000 conditioned to indemnify
the city for any loss, liability or damage that may result or accrue from or
because of the making, existence or manner of constructing any excavation. The
bond shall have as a surety a corporation licensed to do business in the state
which is approved by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984)
§ 95.05 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any way contrary to or at
variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper bracing shall be
maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground. No injury shall be done
to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making of the excavations and prior
thereto, notice shall be given to all persons maintaining any pipes, cables or
conduits, as well as to the City Building Inspector. The notice shall contain a
designation of which cables, pipes or conduits may be affected by the making of
the excavations. No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any plants
(including the roots thereof).
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. Prior to the use thereof, however, the applicant must secure approval
from the City Building Inspector.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 RESTORING SURFACE.
   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or under
any public street, alley or other public place in the city shall restore the
surface to its original condition if there is no pavement in place at the time
of the excavation. Refills shall be properly tamped down and any bracing in any
excavation shall be left in the ground. Any opening in a paved or improved
portion of a street, shall be repaired and the surface relaid by the applicant
in compliance with the ordinances of the city and under the supervision and
approval of the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 SUPERVISION.
   The Building Inspector shall from time to time inspect or cause to be
inspected all excavations and tunnels made in or under any public street, alley
or other public place in the city to see that the provisions of this chapter
and other ordinances of this city are complied with. Notice shall be given to
the Building Inspector at least ten hours before the work of refilling any
tunnel or excavation commences.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984)
§ 95.09 TUNNELING REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any portion of a street or
sidewalk in the city which is paved with a concrete or asphalt paving. When
necessary and where a proper permit has been secured, tunnels may be driven or
excavated under any pavement provided that upon completion of the work
involved, the tunnel shall be backfilled with compacted sand.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10 PROTECTIVE MEASURES.
   It shall be the duty of every person making an excavation in or upon any
public place, to place and maintain barriers and warning devices necessary for
the safety of the general public. Barriers, warning signs, lights and the like
shall conform to the requirements of all applicable city ordinances. Warning
lights shall be flares, torches, lanterns, electrical markers or flashers used
to indicate a hazard to traffic from sunset of each day to sunrise of the next
day. Torches shall be open wick or flame flares or bombs generally used in
connection with roadway repairs or construction and operating on kerosene or
similar fluid. Electrical markers or flashers shall emit light at sufficient
intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety.
Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not replace,
light sources. The City Building Inspector shall determine whether or not
lighting is sufficient under the terms of this chapter. The applicant shall
take appropriate measures to assure that during the performance of the
excavation work, traffic conditions as near as normal as possible shall be
maintained at all times so as to minimize inconvenience to the occupants of the
adjoining property and to the general public. When traffic conditions permit,
the City Manager may by written approval permit the closing of streets and
alleys to all traffic for a period of time prescribed by him or her, if in his
or her opinion it is necessary. Written approval may require that the permittee
give notification to various public agencies and to the general public. In
these cases, the written approval shall not be valid until notice is given.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 CLEARANCE FOR VITAL STRUCTURES.
   The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, valve housing
structures and all other vital equipment as designated by the Building
Inspector.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 PROTECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for two lanes of vehicle traffic
at all street intersections where possible and safe crossings for pedestrians
at intervals of not more than 300 feet. If any excavation is made across any
public street, alley or sidewalk, adequate crossings shall be maintained for
all vehicles and for pedestrians. If the street is not wide enough to hold the
excavated material without using part of the adjacent sidewalk, a passageway at
least one-half of the sidewalk width shall be maintained along the sidewalk
line.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility without the
written consent of the Building Inspector and the owner of the facility. If it
becomes necessary to relocate an existing facility, this shall be done by its
owner. No facility owned by the city shall be moved to accommodate the
permittee unless the cost of the work be borne by the permittee. The cost of
moving privately-owned facilities shall be similarly borne by the permittee
unless it makes other arrangements with the person owning the facility. The
permittee shall support and protect all pipes, conduits, poles, wires or other
apparatus which may be in any way affected by the excavation work, and do
everything necessary to support, sustain and protect them under, over, along or
across the work. The permittee shall secure approval of method of support and
protection from the owner of the facility. In case any of the pipes, conduits,
poles, wires or apparatus should be damaged, and for this purpose, pipe coating
or other incasement or devices are to be considered as part of a substructure,
the permittee shall promptly notify the owner thereof. All damaged facilities
shall be repaired by the agency or person owning them and the expense of the
repairs shall be charged to the permittee. It is the intent of this section
that the permittee shall assume all liability for damage to facilities and any
resulting damage or injury to anyone because of facility damage and the
assumption of liability is a contractual obligation of the permittee. Provided,
however, notwithstanding the foregoing in instances where damage is exclusively
due to the negligence of the owning utility, the utility shall bear the expense
of repair. The city shall not be made a party to any action because of anything
contained herein. It shall be and remain the obligation of the permittee to
inform itself as to the existence and location of all underground facilities
and protect the same against damage.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 ABANDONMENT OF SUBSTRUCTURES.
   Whenever the use of a substructure is abandoned, except the abandonment of
service lines designed to serve single properties, the person owning, using or
controlling, or having an interest therein shall, within 30 days after the
abandonment file with the Building Inspector a statement in writing giving in
detail the location of the substructure so abandoned. If the abandoned
substructure is in an area that will affect any installation of the city or
other public body, the owner shall remove the abandoned substructure or pay the
cost of its removal during the course of excavation for construction of the
facility owned by the city or any other public body.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.15 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   The permittee shall at all times and at his, her or its own expense preserve
and protect from injury any adjoining property by providing proper foundations
and taking other measures suitable for the purpose. Where in the protection of
property it is necessary to enter upon private property for the purpose of
taking protective measures, the permittee shall obtain consent from the owner
of private property for the purpose, and if he or she cannot obtain consent,
the Building Inspector may authorize him or her to enter the private premises
solely for the purpose of making the property safe. The permittee shall, at its
own expense, protect all buildings, walls, fences or other property likely to
be damaged during the progress of the excavation and shall be responsible for
all damage to public or private property or streets and roadways resulting from
its failure to properly protect and carry out the work. Whenever it may be
necessary for the permittee to trench through any lawn area, the area shall be
reseeded, or the sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after the
trenches have been backfilled as required by this chapter. All construction and
maintenance work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area
clean of earth and debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that
which existed before the work began. The permittee shall not remove, even
temporarily, any trees or shrubs which exist in parking strip areas, without
first obtaining the consent of the City Manager.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.16 PLACEMENT OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   (A)   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench
or in any street shall be piled and maintained in a manner as not to endanger
those working in the trench, pedestrians and other persons using the city
streets, and so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those
using streets, alleys or public thoroughfares as well as adjoining property.
Where the confines of the area being excavated are too narrow to permit the
piling of excavated material beside the trench, the Building Inspector shall
have the authority to require the permittee to haul the excavated material to a
storage site and then rehaul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling.
It shall be the permittee's responsibility to secure the necessary permission
and make all necessary arrangements for all required storage and disposal
sites.
   (B)   All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of the
trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as reasonably
possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specifically determined by
the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.17 CLEANUP.
   As the excavation work progresses, all streets, alleys and public
thoroughfares shall be thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish, excess earth, rock
and other debris resulting from the work. All cleanup operations at the
location of the excavation shall be accomplished at the expense of the
permittee and shall be completed to the satisfaction of the Building Inspector
of the city. From time to time as may be ordered by the Building Inspector, the
permittee shall, at his, her or its own expense, cleanup and remove all refuse
and unused materials of any kind resulting from the work, and upon failure to
do so within 24 hours after having been notified to do so by the Building
Inspector, the work may be done by the city and the cost thereof, both direct
and indirect, charged to the permittee, and if not paid within five days after
demand, the city shall have the right, and option of pursuing collection of the
same against both the permittee and the surety bond as required hereunder. In
addition to its damages, the city shall also be entitled to collect attorney's
fees reasonable in amount as determined by the court.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.18 PROTECTION OF WATERWAYS.
   (A)   The permittee shall maintain all natural and artificial waterways
within the city during the course of construction or excavation.
   (B)   In regard thereto, the permittee shall make provisions to eliminate
all surplus water, silt, slickings or other run-off pumped from the excavation
site and shall be responsible for any damage resulting from its failure to so
do.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.19 BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT.
   Prior to using any heavy equipment to break pavement, and prior to cutting
sidewalks, streets or alleys which are paved, the permittee shall obtain the
prior approval as to both the method and procedure to be used from the Building
Inspector of the city. The permittee shall not be required to repair pavement
damage existing prior to excavation unless the permittee's cuts result in small
floating sections that may be unstable, in the opinion of the City Building
Inspector, in which case the permittee shall remove and pave the entire area.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.20 DEPTH OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall, without written permission of the Building Inspector,
install any substructure, except manholes, vaults, valve casings, culverts and
catch basins at a vertical distance less than:
      (1)   Streets. Twenty-four inches below the established flow line of the
nearest gutter. If the flow line is not established, then the depth shall be at
a minimum of 24 inches below the surface of the nearest outermost edge of the
traveled portion of the street; and
      (2)   Other public places. The minimum depth of any substructure in any
other public place shall be 12 inches below the surface.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall impose a duty upon the permittee to
maintain the specifications as required herein upon subsequent changes of grade
in the surface unless the grade in the substructure interferes with the
maintenance of, or travel on, a public street.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 BACKFILLING.
   Fine material, free from lumps and stone, selected from the spoil shall be
thoroughly compacted around and under the substructure to the upper level of
the substructure. Above the upper level of the substructure, backfill material
shall be placed to the subgrade of the pavement in lifts consistent with the
type of soil involved and the degree of consolidation specified by the Building
Inspector. Broken pavement, large stones, roots and other debris shall not be
used in the backfill. The number and size of each lift shall be dependent upon
the type of soil involved. The backfill shall be done in a manner that will
permit the restoration of the surface to a density condition not less than that
existing prior to excavation unless otherwise specified. The Building Inspector
may require soil tests to be furnished by a recognized soil testing laboratory
or registered professional engineer specializing in soil mechanics when, in his
or her opinion, backfill for any excavation is not being adequately compacted.
In order for the resurfacing to be permitted, the tests must show that the
backfill material meets the minimum requirements as prescribed by the City
Manager. All expense of the tests shall be borne by the permittee.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.22 TRENCHES.
   The maximum length of opened trench permissible at any time shall be 30 feet
or one-half of the width of the street, whichever is less.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.23 PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK.
   After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with
diligence and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit
and shall promptly complete the work and restore the street to its original
condition or as near as may be, so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.24 EMERGENCY.
   (A)   When traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the general
public, or the public interests require, the Building Inspector shall have full
power to order, at the time the permit is granted, that a crew of personnel and
adequate facilities be employed by the permittee 24 hours a day so that the
excavation work may be completed as soon as possible.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the making of
excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for
the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs, provided
that the person making the excavation shall first apply to the Building
Inspector for a permit on the first working day after the work is commenced.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.25 NOISE, DUST AND DEBRIS.
   Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in a manner as to
avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and
occupants of neighboring property. The permittee shall take appropriate
measures to reduce to the fullest extent practicable in the performance of the
excavation work, all noise, dust and unsightly debris between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., and shall not use, except in case of emergency as herein
otherwise provided, any tool, appliance or equipment producing noise of
sufficient volume to disturb the occupants of the neighboring property.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.26 PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS.
   Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision, or a precise survey reference point, or a
permanent survey bench mark within the city shall not be removed or disturbed
or caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining permission in
writing from the City Manager so to do. The permission shall be granted only
upon the condition that the person applying for the same shall pay all expenses
incident to the proper replacement of the monument by the city (including, but
not limited to, the expenses of engaging the City Engineer to replace the
same).
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.27 INSPECTIONS.
   The Building Inspector shall make inspections as are reasonably necessary in
the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984)
§ 95.28 RECORDS.
   Every public utility after the enactment of this chapter shall maintain
records showing the location of all of its underground facilities, except those
facilities which connect a particular premise or building to a facility serving
more than one premise or building. Every public utility shall maintain
equipment which can locate the facilities in the field.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984)
§ 95.29 APPEAL.
   If the Building Inspector denies a permit or fails to act under any portion
of this chapter, the applicant may appeal any ruling or denial by the Building
Inspector to the City Commission. The decision of the City Commission on the
appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984)
§ 95.30 CURB CUTS.
   (A)   No person, group, business or other entity shall cut, break or
otherwise destroy or remove any section of street curb along any public street
or alley within the city unless and until an official permit has been obtained
from the city or state. The City Building Official is authorized to establish
procedures, provide instructions and appropriate permit forms and maintain
records on applications for issuance of approved curb cut permits. The minimum
amount of pavement which must be installed as a condition for granting a curb
cut shall be the full length of the curb cut as granted and to a depth of five
feet from the outside edge of the existing curbline or the property line,
whichever is greater. The grantee shall be responsible for all costs associated
with breaking and subsequent construction of an access driveway or parking
area.
   (B)   The Building Inspector, upon receiving all the information required,
may issue a permit for the work to be performed within the city's rights-of-way
or for the cutting of curbs, and all work shall be in strict compliance with
the permit and the written instructions of the Building Inspector.
   (C)   There shall be a fee of $25 for each permit issued and no permit may
be good for more than 60 days.
(Ord. 440A, passed 1-9-1996) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 440, passed 11-13-1984)
CHAPTER 96: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Prevention Code
   
96.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
96.02   Enforcement
   
96.03   Definition
   
96.04   Establishment of limits of districts in which storage of explosives and
blasting agents, storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks and
bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases is to be restricted
   
96.05   Amendments made in the Code hereby adopted
   
96.06   Modifications
   
96.07   Appeals
Fireworks
   
96.20   Possession and discharge
   
96.21   Sale
   
96.22   Exceptions
Fire Zones
   
96.35   Fire zone limits
   
96.36   Permits and inspections
   
96.37   Construction required within fire zone limits
   
96.38   Frame buildings
   
96.39   Roofs
   
96.40   Repairs and additions
   
96.41   Definitions
   
96.42   Arbitration
   
96.43   Fees
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire inspection fees, see §
150.06
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 96.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for a standard fire prevention code known as the Standard Fire
Prevention Code published by Southern Building Code Congress International
Inc., being particularly the 1976 edition thereof, of which a copy has been
filed in the office of the City Secretary, and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and the provisions
thereof shall be controlling for all buildings and structures.
(Ord. 273, passed 9-13-1965; Ord. 273A, passed 11-13-1978)
§ 96.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Fire Marshal, an official
appointed by the governing body of the city for that purpose, who shall have
the duties and powers conferred by the code upon the "Chief of the Fire
Department", and any reference: within the code to the "Chief of the Fire
Department", shall be held to mean the Fire Marshal of the city.
(Ord. 273, passed 9-13-1965)
§ 96.03 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPALITY. As used in the code hereby adopted, it shall be held to mean
the City of Port Isabel, Texas.
(Ord. 273, passed 9-13-1965)
§ 96.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS OF DISTRICTS IN WHICH STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND
BLASTING AGENTS, STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND TANKS AND
BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES IS TO BE RESTRICTED.
   The limits referred to in § 53b of the code hereby adopted as the limits of
the District in which the storage of explosives and blasting agents is
prohibited are hereby established as and the same are, the corporate limits of
the city. The limits referred to in § 74a of the code hereby adopted in which
storage of all liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited are hereby
established as all areas within the corporate limits of the city zoned other
than H-1 (Light Industrial) or H-1 (Heavy Industrial) by zoning regulations of
this city. The limits referred to in § 114 of the code hereby adopted, in which
bulk storage of liquified petroleum gas is restricted are hereby established as
and the same as the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 273, passed 9-13-1965)
§ 96.05 AMENDMENTS MADE IN THE CODE HEREBY ADOPTED.
   The Code hereby adopted is amended and changed in the following respects:
   (A)   Section 17, Article 1, is hereby amended for the purpose of adding
thereto the following subsection:
      Section 17. Permits.
      d. All permits required or authorized by this code shall be issued by the
Fire Marshal of the City of Port Isabel and no permit shall be issued for a
term of more than one year. The Fire Marshal may, at his or her discretion,
issue permits for less than the one-year period. No fees shall be charged for
any permits unless and until the governing body of this city adopts a schedule
of fees to be charged and prescribes the amount and manner of payment of the
fees by resolution of the governing body of the city without amendment of this
ordinance for that purpose.
   (B)   Subsection b of § 53, Article 5, is hereby amended to hereafter read
as follows:
      Section 53. General Requirements.
      b. The storage of explosives and blasting agents within the corporate
limits of the City of Port Isabel is hereby prohibited, except for wholesale
and retail stocks of small arms ammunition, fuses, lighters, fuse igniters and
safety fuses (not including cordeau detonant fuses) in quantities involving
less than 500 pounds of explosive material; and explosive-actuated power
devices, when employed in construction operations in highly populated areas, in
quantities involving less than 50 pounds of explosive material.
   (C)   Section 151, Article 15 is hereby amended to hereafter read as
follows:
      Section 151. Permit Required.
      No place of assembly as defined in § 150b shall be maintained, operated
or used as such without a permit, except that no permit, shall be required for
any place of assembly used solely as a place of religious worship or solely for
educational purposes.
   (D)   Subsection b of § 172, Article 17, is hereby amended to hereafter read
as follows:
         Section 172. Permit Required for Welding or Cutting.
         b.   A permit shall not be required of any company, corporation,
copartnership or owner-operator:
            (1)   Where the welding or cutting is performed in areas within the
City of Port Isabel zoned L-l (Light Industrial) or H-l (Heavy Industrial)
under the zoning regulations of the City of Port Isabel; or
            (2)   Having an approved permit system established for control of
the fire hazards involved as certified by the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 273, passed 9-13-1965)
§ 96.06 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal has power to modify any of the provisions of the code
hereby adopted upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his or
her duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the
code shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done.
   (B)   The particulars of the modification when granted or allowed and the
decision of the Fire Marshal thereon shall be entered upon the records to be
maintained by the Fire Marshal in the office of the City Clerk and a signed
copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Ord. 273, passed 9-13-1965)
§ 96.07 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Fire Marshal shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant
a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do
not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the Fire Marshal to the governing body of this city within 30 days from the
date of the decision of the Fire Marshal to the governing body of this city
within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Ord. 273, passed 9-13-1965)
FIREWORKS
§ 96.20 POSSESSION AND DISCHARGE.
   No person, firm, company, corporation or association shall cast, throw or
fire any squib, rocket, cracker, torpedo, grenade, gun, revolver, pistol, cap
or cartridge or other combustible fireworks of any kind in the city.
(Ord. 173A, passed 6-18-1956) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.21 SALE.
   No person, firm, company, corporation or association shall exhibit or have
in his or her possession, with intent to give away or sell or offer for sale or
sell, within the city, any squib, rocket, cracker, torpedo, grenade, gun,
revolver, pistol, cap or cartridge, or other combustible fireworks of any kind
in the city, provided, however, that this section shall not apply to the sale
of any article or articles by wholesalers to each other or to the sale of any
article or articles at wholesale to merchants conducting business entirely
without the city, or to the sale by wholesalers for private or public
demonstration as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 173A, passed 6-18-1956) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.22 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to apply to the sale, storage
or use of caps used or designed for use in toy pistols, nor to the sale,
storage or use of railroad track torpedoes or other signaling devices used by
railroads, nor to the sale, storage or use of flashlight composition by
photographers or dealers in photographic supplies, or prevent any public or
private demonstration or display of fireworks of any kind if conducted under
proper police supervision after application made and permit issued by the City
Commission, for the demonstration. The permit shall not be granted unless the
demonstration or display shall be of a character, and so located, discharged or
fired, as in the opinion of the City Commission, after proper inspection, shall
not be hazardous to property or endanger any person or persons.
(Ord. 173A, passed 6-18-1956; Ord. 173B, passed 6-24-1958)
FIRE ZONES
§ 96.35 FIRE ZONE LIMITS.
   (A)   Fire zone limits for Fire Zone Number One. The following shall be and
are hereby declared to be the limits of Fire Zone Number One:
      Beginning at the intersection of the northerly property line and the City
Limits Line, City of Port Isabel, Cameron County, Texas, of Block No, 73 and
thence in a westerly direction along Maxan Street and the northerly property
lines of Blocks 73, 56, and 47, to the northwesterly corner of Block 47; thence
in a southerly direction along the westerly property line of Block 47 to the
southwesterly corner of Block 47; thence in an easterly direction along Powers
Street and the southerly property lines of Blocks 47, 56, and 73 to the
intersection of the City Limits Line; and thence in a northerly direction with
the meanders of the City Limits Line to the point of beginning.
   (B)   Fire zone limits for Fire Zone Number Two. The following shall be and
are hereby declared to be the limits of Fire Zone Number Two:
      Beginning at the intersection of the City Limits Line, City of Port
Isabel and the northerly property line of Block 72 and thence in a westerly
direction along Houston Street and the northerly property lines of Blocks 72,
59, 46, 33, 20, 6, City Park, 122, and 124 to the northwesterly corner of Block
124; thence in a southerly direction along with the westerly property lines of
Blocks 124 and 125 to the southwesterly corner of Block 125; thence in an
easterly direction along with the southerly property lines of Blocks 125, 121,
120, 8, 22, 35, 48, 60, and 74 to the southeasterly corner of Block 74; thence
in a northerly direction along the easterly property line of Block 74 to its
intersection with the City Limits Line; thence in a northerly direction along
with the meanders of the City Limits Line to the point of beginning. The area
of Fire Zone Number One is to be excepted from Fire Zone Number Two and each
are to be regulated by their building restrictions herein after designated.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-4-1954)
§ 96.36 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   No wall, structure, building, or part thereof, shall be hereafter
built, enlarged or altered, until a plan of the proposed work, together with
specifications of materials to be used, shall have been submitted to the City
Building Inspector and/or City Secretary, who shall, if in accordance with the
provisions herein contained, issue a written building permit, in triplicate,
for the proposed work. Permits shall be kept on file with the City Secretary.
   (B)   Structures or buildings hereafter erected without a permit, or not in
accordance with the permit, shall be removed.
   (C)   All structures or buildings to be erected in any fire zone, except
one- and/or two-family residences, shall have structural drawings or plans, and
specifications, signed by the individual and/or firm preparing the drawings or
plans and specifications.
   (D)   No building shall be moved from without to within any of the fire zone
limits, until a permit shall have been issued therefor. No permit shall be
issued unless construction is in accordance with this subchapter.
   (E)   The designated Building Inspector shall inspect, as often as practical
construction in progress to see that all provisions of this subchapter are
being complied with.
   (F)   Note: All plans and specifications submitted to the Secretary and/or
City Building Inspector, shall comply with all ordinances of the city and with
Tex. Revised Civil Statutes Article 3271A.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-4-1954) Penalty, see §
96.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire inspection fees, see §
150.06
§ 96.37 CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED WITHIN FIRE ZONE LIMITS.
   (A)   Fire Zone Number One.
      (1)   No building or structure of wooden, ironclad (whether on wood or
metal supports), stucco or veneer type construction, or any building whose
walls contain wood supports shall be permitted except as indicated in §
96.39. No building shall hereafter be built, enlarged or altered except in
accordance with this subchapter.
      (2)   The thickness of walls shall not be less than given below:
         (a)   Brick bearing walls shall not be less than 12-inches thick,
except that small one story buildings with a floor area of 750 square feet or
less may have walls eight-inches thick; and
         (b)   Reinforced concrete walls shall be in no case less than eight-
inches thick.
      (3)   Hollow building tile or blocks, of either clay or cement product
may be used as filler or curtain walls, provided the walls be supported or
reinforced concrete beams, footings and/or foundations, and by adequate
reinforced concrete columns, spaced not more than 16 feet apart; walls to be
not less than 12-inches thick. Small one story buildings of less than 500
square feet floor area, may have eight-inch hollow tile walls.
      (4)   Hollow building tile or blocks, of either clay or cement product
may be used as filler or curtain walls, provided the walls be supported or
reinforced concrete beams, footings and/or foundations, and by adequate
reinforced concrete columns, spaced not more than 16 feet apart; walls to be
not less than 12-inches thick. Small one story buildings of less than 500
square feet floor area, may have eight-inch hollow tile walls.
      (5)   Hollow building tile or blocks, of either clay or cement product,
may be used as filler or curtain walls, provided the walls be supported on
reinforced concrete foundations, and by adequately designed structural steel
columns and beams, to carry building loads. Columns shall be spaced not more
than l6 feet apart and securely anchored to foundations. Walls shall not be
less than 12-inches thick. Where structural steel frame is used, all structural
steel shall be fireproofed for a four-hour rating in accordance with the
National Fire Code, as published by the National Fire Protection Association.
      (6)   Solid stone walls shall be four inches thicker than brick walls or
like construction.
      (7)   All exterior walls, party walls and division fire walls, shall have
parapets extending at least 18 inches above the roof line, and the parapets
shall be at least 12-inches thick, except where eight-inch walls are permitted
as above, in which case parapets may be eight inches thick,
   (B)   Fire Zone Number Two. No building shall hereafter be built, enlarged
or altered, except in accordance with this subchapter.
      (1)   For all stores, shops, commercial and/or industrial buildings,
hotels, motels and the like, where the public is invited, where the building
lines come closer than four feet to either or both of the side property lines,
the wall thickness shall not be less than given below:
         (a)   Brick bearing walls shall not be less than 12-inches thick,
except that one story buildings, with properly designed buttresses of brick,
spaced not more than 14 feet apart and of a minimum thickness of 12 inches, may
have eight-inch walls, providing that all roof loads are introduced in the wall
line at the centers of the buttresses; and
         (b)   Brick curtain or filler type walls shall not be less than eight-
inches thick, and shall be provided with a designed structural frame of
reinforced concrete foundations, columns and header or tie beams.
      (2)   Reinforced concrete walls shall not be less than six-inches thick.
      (3)   Hollow building tile or blocks of either clay or cement product,
may be used as bearing walls for small one story buildings of not more than 750
square feet floor area, providing that the roof beams are horizontal; and with
walls not less than eight-inches thick.
      (4)   Hollow building tile or blocks of either clay or cement product,
may be used as curtain or filler walls, provided that the walls be supported on
reinforced, concrete beams and/or footings, and by adequate reinforced concrete
columns and tie or header beams. Concrete columns shall not be spaced more than
16 feet apart. Walls shall not be less than eight-inches thick.
      (5)   Brick, hollow building tile or block of either clay or cement
product, may be used as filler or curtain type walls, provided the walls be
supported on reinforced concrete foundations, and by adequate structural steel
columns and beams, designed to carry building loads. Where structural steel
frame is used, all structural steel shall be fireproofed for a two hour rating
in accordance with the National Fire Codes, as published by the National Fire
Protection Association.
      (6)   Solid stone walls shall be four inches thicker than brick walls of
like construction.
      (7)   All exterior walls, party walls and division fire walls, shall have
parapets extending at least 12 inches above the roof line and the parapets
shall be at least eight-inches thick.
      (8)   All residences of masonry and/or concrete wall design, where
residence does not incorporate the parapet walls in its design, shall have a
minimum side clearance to the side property line of three feet on both sides.
This clearance shall be measured from either the building line or the roof eave
line, using the one closest to the side property line.
      (9)   All residences of wood frame, veneer, stucco or veneer type
construction, and buildings whose walls contain wood supports shall have a
minimum side clearance distance of five feet on both sides to the side property
lines. This clearance shall be measured from either the building line or the
roof eave line, using the one that is closest to the side property line.
      (10)   All commercial and/or industrial buildings or structures of
wooden, ironclad or asbestos product (whether on wood or metal supports) shall
have a minimum side clearance distance of six feet to the side property lines.
This clearance shall be measured from either the building line or the roof eave
line, using the one closest to the side property line.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-4-1954)
§ 96.38 FRAME BUILDINGS.
   The following frame structures are permissable in fire limits of Fire Zone
Number One:
   (A)   Temporary one story frame buildings for use of builders; and
   (B)   Wooden fences not over eight feet high without roof covering.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-4-1954) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.39 ROOFS.
   (A)   All buildings or structures in all fire zones, hereafter constructed
shall have incombustible roof coverings.
   (B)   No roofing on an existing roof shall be renewed or repaired to a
greater extent than 10% of the roof surface, except in conformity with this
ordinance and in no instance shall more than one permit be issued each existing
building in any one year.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-4-1954) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.40 REPAIRS AND ADDITIONS.
   (A)   Any existing building not conforming with the requirements of this
subchapter within any of the fire zone limits, which may hereafter be damaged
by fire, decay or in any other manner, amounting to more than 50% of its value
exclusive of the foundation, shall not be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be
removed.
   (B)   Extensions, remodeling or additions to existing buildings shall not be
considered repairs, and shall not be permitted except when conforming with §
96.37.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-4-1954)
§ 96.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEAM. A more or less horizontal member of a structural frame used to
transport building loads into columns or other beams or into foundations.
   BLOCK. A fabricated building material, with plane surfaces made of cement
product or clay and used in masonry work.
   BRICK. A building or paving material made from moist clay and hard-burned in
a kiln.
   BUILDING. A structure having four walls, a floor and a roof.
   BUILDING LOAD. The weight and/or the internal stresses in the various
structural members imposed, by roof, floor and dead weight of the building
itself.
   CEMENT PRODUCT. Any unit that has portland cement as one of its components.
   COLUMN. A more or less vertical member of a structural frame used to
transport building loads from one elevation to another.
   CONCRETE. Concrete is a product obtained by having portland cement, fine
aggregate (sand), course aggregate (gravel or crushed stone) and water, in its
composition,
   CURTAIN WALL. A building wall that does not carry any building loads other
than its own weight and that of any openings included in the limits of the
wall.
   DESIGNED. Having had a structural analysis made of the structure and sizes
of members designated as a result of the requirements made by the structural
analysis,
   EXTERIOR WALL. Any wall which has one side exposed to the outside or any
wall common to two buildings but which definitely separates the two buildings.
   FLOOR AREA. The number of square feet included in a building by taking the
extreme outside dimensions of the foundations of the building.
   FOOTINGS. That structural portion of a building that carries building loads
into the ground by means of separate or continuous structural member or beams.
   FILLER WALL. See CURTAIN WALL.
   FIRE DIVISION WALL. A wall in a building that separates the building into
two or more sections and that goes from the building foundations through the
roof structure to a parapet as required for the Fire Zone.
   FIREPROOFING. A fireproof material that is placed around a structural
member.
   FOUNDATION. The portion of the structural frame that transmits building
loads into the ground.
   FRAME BUILDING. A building that has its structural frame made of wood.
   HOLLOW BUILDING TILE. A structural building material with plane sides and
having air cavities in the center made from moist clay, molded and fired in a
kiln.
   IRON CLAD. A building having an exterior covering of sheet metal.
   LOAD. The aggregate weight imposed by live and dead loads on a building
frame, to whatever point is under consideration.
   PARAPET. A wall that extends above the roof line of a building.
   PARTY WALL. A wall that is common to two or more buildings.
   REINFORCED CONCRETE. Concrete (as previously described) with the addition of
steel bars,
   REINFORCING STEEL. Steel bars that are put in a material to add to the
strength of that material.
   ROOF BEAM. A beam at the roof level designed to support all roof loads.
   SPECIFICATIONS. A written description of the materials that are to be put in
a proposed building.
   STONE. A natural stone that has been quarried for use as a building
material.
   STRUCTURE. Any manner of building, edifice, form or support.
   STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS. Drawings in which the structural frame necessary to
carry building loads are shown and/or detailed.
   STRUCTURAL STEEL FRAME. A structural frame designed to carry building loads
fabricated of steel beams, columns and the like.
   STUCCO. A plaster material used generally on the outside of buildings.
   THICKNESS. That dimension that is measured at 90 degrees to the length of
the member.
   VENEER. An outer coating of a material that is other than the material of
the structural frame.
   WALL. The vertical portion of a structure that encloses the building or
structure.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-4-1954)
§ 96.42 ARBITRATION.
   Whenever an application for permit to repair any existing building already
located within any fire zone limits, is made by any person or firm, and the
City Commission and the applicant disagree on the extent of repairs to be made,
and a permit is denied by the designated Building Inspector, then the City
Commission shall appoint a competent and disinterested person, and the
applicant shall appoint a competent and disinterested person, which the two
persons shall select a third member, and those three persons shall appraise the
building, examine the plan of the proposed work, and the specifications and
labor to be used in the repairing or rebuilding of the building, and make a
signed written report of their findings to the City Commission. If the report
reflects clearly that the building or repairing would be a violation of this
subchapter, then the application for permit shall be denied by the City
Commission, and if the application for permit be denied by the City Commission,
and if the report reflects that the person seeking the permit has complied with
the subchapter, the requested rebuilding or repairing is not in violation of
the subchapter, then the City Commission shall issue a permit for the proposed
rebuilding or repairing.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-4-1954)
§ 96.43 FEES.
   The fee for a building permit shall be $2.50 per $1,000 estimated
construction costs, or fraction thereof, but the minimum fee shall be $5.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-4-1954)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Fire Prevention Code. Any person, firm, corporation or agent who shall
violate any provision of §§
96.01 through
96.07 or fail to comply therewith or with any of the requirements thereof shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each person, firm, corporation or agent shall be
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation of any of the provisions of §§
96.01 through
96.07 are permitted or continued; and upon conviction of any violation the
persons shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not to exceed $200.
   (B)   Fireworks. Any person, firm, corporation, company or association who
shall violate any of the provisions of §§
96.20 through
96.22, or suffer or allow the same to be violated, shall upon conviction
thereof be subject to a fine of not more than $100.
   (C)   Fire zones. Any person, firm or corporation, who shall violate any
part of the provisions of this §§
96.35 through
96.43, or who shall fail to comply with any of its requirements shall be
subject to a fine in any sum not to exceed $200, and each and every day's
continuance of any violation of the provisions of §§
96.35 through
96.43 shall constitute and be deemed as a separate offense.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-4-1954; Ord. 173A, passed 6-18-1956; Ord. 273, passed 9-13-
1965; Ord. 273A, passed 11-13-1978)
CHAPTER 97: LIBRARY
Section
   
97.01   Library established
   
97.02   Library Board composition and officers
   
97.03   Library Board member duties and responsibilities
   
97.04   Library Director
   
97.05   Library Director duties and responsibilities
   
97.06   Library rules and regulations
§ 97.01 LIBRARY ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established in the city a public library, which shall
hereafter be known as the City Library.
(Ord. 372, passed 2-27-1978)
§ 97.02 LIBRARY BOARD COMPOSITION AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   Composition. The Board shall be composed of five members. The Library
Director shall be an ex officio, non-voting member of the Board.
   (B)   Qualifications. Not less than three members of the Board shall be
residents of the city.
   (C)   Appointment. Board members shall be appointed by the City Commission.
All appointments will be made to take effect on the date of the Board's annual
meeting, with the exception of an appointment to fill the unexpired term of a
member who resigns, is removed from the Board, or becomes unable to serve for
any reason whatsoever.
   (D)   Term. Each Board member shall serve a term of two years; provided,
however, three of the Board members shall serve an initial term of one year,
with two members of the Board serving an initial term of two years. No Board
member shall serve more than two consecutive terms.
   (E)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation,
but may be reimbursed for any personal expense incurred in the performance of
their duties.
   (F)   Removal of members. The City Commission shall have the power to remove
from office any or all of the members of the Board at any time, with or without
cause.
   (G)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held on the
third Monday of every January, April, July and October at 4:30 p.m. in the
library boardroom, unless otherwise ordered by the Chairperson upon reasonable
notice to the members of the Board.
   (H)   Annual meeting.  The annual meeting shall be held on the third Monday
in July of each year for the purpose of electing officers, receiving reports of
officers and committees, and for all other business that may arise.
   (I)   Special meetings. A special meeting of the Board may be called by the
Chairperson or upon written request of a majority of the members. The call for
a special meeting will state the purpose for such meeting. Not less than 72
hours' notice of the special meeting shall be given to the members of the Board
unless, in the opinion of the Chairperson, an emergency exists that
necessitates the meeting to be held upon shorter notice.
   (J)   Quorum. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
   (K)   Officers. The officers of the Board shall consist of a Chairperson,
Vice-Chairperson and Secretary. The officers shall perform the duties
prescribed by this chapter and by the parliamentary authority adopted by the
Board.
   (L)   Election of officers. Officers shall be elected annually by the Board
at each annual meeting of the Board and shall serve one-year terms. Officers
may be re-elected for consecutive terms.
   (M)   Committees. The Chairperson shall appoint committees, standing or
special, when deemed necessary to carry out the duties and responsibilities of
the Board. The Chairperson shall be an ex officio member of all committees.
   (N)   Parliamentary authority. The rules contained in Robert's Rules of
Order, Newly Revised, shall govern the actions of the Board, except to the
extent they are inconsistent with this chapter or any special rules of order
adopted by the Board.
(Ord. 372-A, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 97.03 LIBRARY BOARD MEMBER DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The duties and responsibilities of a Library Board member shall include:
   (A)   Attending Board meetings.
   (B)   Acting in an advisory capacity to the City Manager and City Commission
in matters that pertain to the library.
   (C)   Receiving suggestions and recommendations from citizens relating to
library service.
   (D)   Referring complaints, compliments and suggestions to the Library
Director.
   (E)   Knowing how the library is organized and its functions.
   (F)   Knowing the collection, the staff and the activities of the library in
order to communicate knowledgeably with citizens and elected officials.
   (G)   Recognizing that the Library Director and others on the staff are
professionals in the field of library management and operations, and respecting
their expertise.
   (H)   Remembering that the Board's role is to make recommendations to the
City Manager and City Commission.
   (I)   Acquiring an awareness of public library standards and library trends.
   (J)   Becoming informed about state and national library laws, and actively
supporting state and national library legislation that would improve and extend
library service.
   (K)   Supporting intellectual freedom and the right to access in the public
library.
(Ord. 372-A, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 97.04 LIBRARY DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Library Director shall be subject to appointment, supervision and
removal by the City Manager, and shall serve as administrative head of the city
public library. The Library Director shall supervise the maintenance and use of
the library, and shall maintain an appropriate set of books or other suitable
records in which shall be kept all receipts and expenditures of the library,
and a complete listing of all books, periodicals, manuscripts, furniture,
furnishings, instruments, apparatus or other property or equipment purchased
for or donated to the library. The Library Director shall have authority to
maintain order in and about the library premises. The Library Director shall
prepare an annual report to the Board, the City Manager and the City
Commission, and shall submit all such reports as may be required or requested
by the Board, the City Commission, or other state, national or local agency.
The Library Director shall prepare a budget to be submitted to the Board for
review and transmittal to the City Manager for inclusion in the annual budget
of the city.
   (B)   The Library Director shall have the power to appoint, employ and
remove such assistants, employees and personnel as may be deemed necessary for
the efficient administration of the affairs of the library, and to prescribe
and fix their duties, scope of authority and qualifications in accordance with
the annual library budget as adopted by the City Commission, and the
classification and compensation plan established by the City Commission. All
assistants, employees and personnel of the library shall be governed by the
same personnel rules and classification and compensation plan as is established
for all other employees of the city.
(Ord. 372-A, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 97.05 LIBRARY DIRECTOR DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Library Director shall include:
   (A)   Meeting with the Library Board at regularly scheduled meetings. If the
Library Director is not available to attend a regularly scheduled meeting of
the Library Board, the Library Director can designate a substitute to attend
such meeting, subject to approval of the City Manager.
   (B)   Helping prepare the meeting agenda with the Board Chairperson.
   (C)   Keeping the Board and City Manager informed of the activities,
acquisitions and new personnel of the library.
   (D)   Informing the Board regarding budget and financing implications.
   (E)   Guiding the Board with professional expertise.
   (F)   Directing the care and maintenance of the library building and
equipment.
   (G)   Preparing the annual budget proposal.
   (H)   Overseeing the expenditures of the budget.
   (I)   Assuming the responsibility for the monthly and annual reports of
library services and activities.
   (J)   Attending meetings, workshops, seminars and conferences of
organizations appropriate to the library and management fields.
   (K)   Supervising the selection and processing of all library materials and
equipment.
   (L)   Keeping informed of library trends through professional reading.
(Ord. 372-A, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 97.06 LIBRARY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The general rules and regulations for the operation and use of the
library shall be promulgated by the Library Director and approved by the City
Manager. The books, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, manuscripts, CDs, DVDs or
other property of the library shall be the property of the city; any person
injuring or defacing any such property shall be liable to account therefor to
the Library Director. The Library Director shall have authority to establish
fines for any person retaining any such book, newspaper, magazine, pamphlet,
manuscript or other property beyond the expiration of the time that, by the
rules of the library, such property may be kept.
   (B)   Every person and parent or guardian of a child under the age of 17
years, who shall take or borrow from the library any book, pamphlet,
periodical, paper, CD, DVD or other property except in accordance with the
rules of the library, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the sum of $200
for each offense.
   (C)   Every person and parent or guardian of a child under the age of 17
years, who shall take or borrow from the library any book, pamphlet,
periodical, paper, CD, DVD or other property and neglect, refuse or fail to
return the same, within two weeks after the date of mailing a notice by
certified mail, with return receipt requested, to his address noted on the
current library card, may be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the sum of $200
for each offense, plus all fines normally assessed by the library for each
day's violation of its rules.
   (D)   Every person and parent or guardian of a child under the age of 17
years, who shall willfully or wantonly cut, mutilate, mark, tear, write upon,
deface or otherwise destroy or injure, in whole or in part, any book, pamphlet,
periodical, map or document, CD, DVD, picture, written, engraved or printed
paper, or any other library property belonging to the library, or shall suffer
any such injury to be inflicted while such property is in his or her custody,
or shall willfully or wantonly injure any of the furniture or property in the
building of the library, or shall willfully or wantonly mark or deface or in
any way injure the library or any part thereof, or any fixtures therein or
appurtenances thereto, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the sum of $200
for each offense.
   (E)   Any person and parent or guardian of a child under the age of 17 years
who has authorized such child to have borrowing privileges, who violates any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the sum of $200
for each offense.
(Ord. 372-A, passed 5-10-2011)
CHAPTER 98: CITY MUSEUM
Section
   
98.01   Name
   
98.02   Mission
   
98.03   Location
   
98.04   City Museum and Historical Preservation Board
   
98.05   Powers of museum
   
98.06   City is owner
   
98.07   Amendments
   
98.08   Dissolution
§ 98.01 NAME.
   The city will officially name the city museum City Historical Museum.
(Ord. 568, passed 1-23-1996; Ord. 568A, passed 4-23-1996)
§ 98.02 MISSION.
   The mission of the museum is to:
   (A)   Preserve, protect and enhance the landmarks and districts which
represent distinctive elements of the city's historic, architectural,
archeological and cultural heritage;
   (B)   Promote economic prosperity and welfare of the community by
encouraging the most appropriate use of the property within the city;
   (C)   Encourage stabilization, restoration and improvements of the
properties and their values;
   (D)   Foster civic pride in the accomplishments of the past;
   (E)   Protect and enhance the city's attractiveness to visitors and the
support and stimulus to the economy thereby provided;
   (F)   Ensure the harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and development of
the city;
   (G)   Provide a review process to protect the rights of citizens and
property owners for the appropriate preservation and development of important
cultural, architectural, historic and archeological resources;
   (H)   Maintain a generally harmonious appearance of both historic and modern
structures through the use of complimentary scale, form, color, proportion,
texture and material; and
   (I)   Encourage stabilization, restoration and improvements of the
properties and their values.
(Ord. 568, passed 1-23-1996; Ord. 568A, passed 4-23-1996)
§ 98.03 LOCATION.
   The official location of the museum is 317 East Railroad Street, Port
Isabel, Texas.
(Ord. 568, passed 1-23-1996; Ord. 568A, passed 4-23-1996)
§ 98.04 CITY MUSEUM AND HISTORICAL PRESERVATION BOARD.
   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the City Museum and
Historical Preservation Board, hereinafter referred to as the Board.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of seven members, with an addition of one ex-
officio to be appointed by the City Commission if possible; an architect or
planner, if available an engineer a historian or historical society member an
attorney two residents of Laguna Madre Area.
   (B)   At least four members must be city residents and have a known
interest, competence or knowledge in historic preservation in the city, and as
a whole shall represent the ethnic makeup of the city.
   (C)   Board members shall serve three years, except the initial term of two
members shall be one year, two members two years and three members three years.
   (D)   The Board will elect their officers annually.
   (E)   The Board shall be empowered to:
      (1)   Make recommendations for volunteers, employment and staff and
professional consultants as necessary to carry out the duties of the Board;
      (2)   Prepare rules and procedures as necessary to carry out the business
of the Board, which shall be ratified by the City Commission;
      (3)   Adopt criteria for the designation of historic, architectural and
cultural landmarks and the delineation of historic districts, which shall be
ratified by the City Commission;
      (4)   Conduct surveys and maintain an inventory of significant
historical, architectural and cultural landmarks and all properties located in
historic districts within the city;
      (5)   Recommend the designation of resources as landmarks and historic
districts;
      (6)   Create committees from among its membership and delegate to these
committees responsibilities to carry out the purposes of this chapter;
      (7)   Maintain written minutes which record all actions taken by the
Board and the reasons for taking such actions;
      (8)   Recommend conferral of recognition upon the owners of landmarks or
properties within districts by means of certificates, plaques or markers;
      (9)   Increase public awareness of the value of historic, cultural and
architectural preservation by developing and participating in public education
programs;
      (10)   Make recommendations to the city government concerning the
utilization of state, federal or private funds to promote the preservation of
landmarks and historic districts within the city;
      (11)   Approve or disapprove applications for certificate of
appropriateness pursuant to this act;
      (12)   Prepare and submit twice annually to the City Commission a report
summarizing the work completed the previous year;
      (13)   Recommend yearly budget on operation and maintenance of the City
Historical Museum;
      (14)   Prepare specific design guidelines for the review of landmarks and
districts;
      (15)   Propose tax abatement program for landmarks or districts if
feasible;
      (16)   Accept on behalf of the city government the donation of
preservation easements and development rights as well as any other gift of
value for the purpose of historic preservation, subject to the approval of the
City Commission; and
      (17)   Recommend fees, after consultation with the City Administration
and planning and zoning, for services provided.
(Ord. 568, passed 1-23-1996; Ord. 568A, passed 4-23-1996)
§ 98.05 POWERS OF MUSEUM.
   The city shall designate certain powers of the museum with regards to the
ability to receive donations of money and objects and that those donations are
tax deductible for the donor, the right to hold property, to enter into
contracts, to appoint employees and to conduct educational activities.
(Ord. 568, passed 1-23-1996; Ord. 568A, passed 4-23-1996)
§ 98.06 CITY IS OWNER.
   The city is the owner of all assets including all objects accessioned to the
museum.
(Ord. 568, passed 1-23-1996; Ord. 568A, passed 4-23-1996)
§ 98.07 AMENDMENTS.
   The City Commission will approve all amendments of this governing document.
(Ord. 568, passed 1-23-1996; Ord. 568A, passed 4-23-1996)
§ 98.08 DISSOLUTION.
   Upon the dissolution of the museum, the city shall, after paying or making
provision for payment of all the liabilities of the museum, dispose of all of
the assets of the museum through transfer to an organization or organizations
of similar purpose to the City Historical Museum.
(Ord. 568, passed 1-23-1996; Ord. 568A, passed 4-23-1996)
CHAPTER 99: NUISANCES
Section
Abandoned Motor Vehicles
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Location or presence of abandoned motor vehicles within city deemed
public nuisance; exceptions
   
99.03   Abatement or removal order; contents; service
   
99.04   Removal with permission of owner or occupant
   
99.05   Disposal of abandoned motor vehicles
   
99.06   Abandoned motor vehicles; seizure and auction
   
99.07   Authority to enforce
   
99.08   Application
Noise
   
99.20   Prohibition
   
99.21   Purpose
   
99.22   Use of sound amplification devices on public property within the
vicinity of Washington Park and Arturo Galvan Coastal Park
Open Burning
   
99.35   Prohibition
Abandoned Refrigerators
   
99.50   Prohibition
 
   
99.99   Penalty
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, watercraft, outboard motor is
abandoned if it:
      (1)   Is inoperable, is more than five years old, and has been left
unattended on public property for more than 48 hours;
      (2)   Has remained illegally on public property for more than 48 hours:
      (3)   Has remained on private property without the consent of the owner
or person in charge of the property for more than 48 hours: or
      (4)   Has been left unattended on the right-of-way of a designated
county, state or federal highway for more than 48 hours.
   ABANDONED NUISANCE VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is at least ten years old
and is of a condition only to be junked, crushed or dismantled.
   DEMOLISHER. Any person whose business is to convert a motor vehicle into
processed scrap or scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck or dismantle motor
vehicles.
   OUTBOARD MOTOR. An outboard motor subject to registration under Tex. Parks
and Wildlife Code Chapter 31.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
   STORAGE FACILITY. Includes a garage, parking lot or established for the
servicing, repairing or parking of motor vehicles.
   WATERCRAFT. A vessel subject to registration under Tex. Parks and Wildlife
Code
Chapter 31.
(Ord. 156A, passed 7-24-1972; Ord. 156B, passed 7-14-2009)
§ 99.02 LOCATION OR PRESENCE OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES WITHIN CITY DEEMED
PUBLIC NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
   The location or presence of any abandoned motor vehicle on any lot, tract,
parcel of land or portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or
unimproved, within the city shall be deemed a public nuisance and it shall be
unlawful for any person or persons to cause or maintain the public nuisance by
wrecking, dismantling, rendering inoperable, abandoning or discarding their
vehicle, watercraft, outboard motor on the property of another or to suffer,
permit or allow the same to be placed, located, maintained or exist upon their
own real property; provided that this section shall not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
storage facility in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or
other public or private property; or
   (B)   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner
on private property in connection with the business of a licensed vehicle
dealer or a junkyard.
(Ord. 156A, passed 7-24-1972; Ord. 156B, passed 7-14-2009)
§ 99.03 ABATEMENT OR REMOVAL ORDER; CONTENTS; SERVICE.
   (A)   Whenever any public nuisance exists in the city in violation hereof,
the Chief of Police, who shall administer this subchapter, or Code Enforcement
Officer shall send, by certified or registered mail with a five-day return
requested, to the owner of the real property or the occupant, if any of the
premises whereon the public nuisance exists to abate or remove the same. The
notice shall specify the nature of the public nuisance: specify that it must be
removed and abated within ten days after the delivery date of the certified
mail receipt of the notice; and specify that a request for a public hearing
under division (B) below hereof must be made before expiration of the ten-day
period. If the notice is returned undelivered by the United States post office,
official action by the city to abate the nuisance shall be continued to abate
not less than ten days from the date of the return.
   (B)   A public hearing prior to the removal of the vehicle, watercraft,
outboard motor or part thereof as a public nuisance shall be held before the
governing body of the city or any other board, commission or official of the
city, as designated by the governing body, when the hearing is requested by the
owner or occupant of the premises on which the vehicle is located within ten
days after the delivery date of the certified mail receipt of the notice to
abate the nuisance. Any resolution or order requiring the removal of a vehicle
or part thereof shall include a description of the vehicle and the current
identification number and license number of the vehicle, if available at the
site. If the owner or occupant fails to comply with the resolution or order,
they shall be subject to the penalty set out in §
99.99.
(Ord. 156A, passed 7-24-1972; Ord. 156B, passed 7-14-2009) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 REMOVAL WITH PERMISSION OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   If, within ten days after receipt of notice from Chief of Police, or his or
her duly authorized agent, to abate the nuisance, as herein provided, the owner
or occupant of the premises shall give his or her written permission to the
Chief of Police, or his or her duly authorized agent for removal of the
abandoned motor vehicle, watercraft, outboard motor, from the premises, the
giving of permission shall be considered compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 156A, passed 7-24-1972; Ord. 156B, passed 7-14-2009)
§ 99.05 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   If a public nuisance is not abated by the owner or occupant after
notice is given in accordance with this subchapter, official action shall be
taken by the city to abate the nuisance. Abandoned motor vehicles, watercraft,
outboard motor or parts thereof may be disposed of by removal to a scrap yard,
demolishers, or any suitable site operated by the city for processing as scrap
or salvage, which removal or process shall, be consistent with division (B)
below of this section. An abandoned motor vehicle, watercraft, outboard motor
disposed transferred to a demolisher by a form acceptable to the State Highway
Department (Form #MV D71-5). The transfer receipt must be listed on the
demolisher's inventory list and surrendered to the State Highway Department in
lieu of the certificate of title under the provision of Vernon's Ann. P.C.
Article1436-2.
   (B)   After a vehicle has been removed pursuant to this section, it shall
not be reconstructed or made operable by any person.
   (C)   Notice shall be given to the State Highway Department within five days
after the date of removal identifying the vehicle or part thereof.
(Ord. 156A, passed 7-24-1972; Ord. 156B, passed 7-14-2009) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.06 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES; SEIZURE AND AUCTION.
   (A)   Authority to take abandoned motor vehicles into custody.
      (1)   A law enforcement agency may take into custody an abandoned motor
vehicle, watercraft or outboard motor found on public or private property.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency may use agency personnel (Code Enforcement
Officer), equipment and facilities or contract for the personnel, equipment and
facilities to remove, preserve, store, send notice regarding and dispose of an
abandoned motor vehicle, watercraft or outboard motor taken into custody by the
agency.
   (B)   Taking abandoned motor vehicles into custody. A law enforcement agency
shall send notice of abandonment to:
      (1)   The last known registered owner of each motor vehicle, watercraft
or outboard motor taken into custody by the agency or for which a report is
received;
      (2)   Each lien holder recorded under Chapter 501 Tex. Transportation
Code, § 501.002(9) for the motor vehicle or under Tex. Parks and Wildlife Code
Chapter 31, for the watercraft or outboard motor;
      (3)   Inform the owner and lien holder of the right to claim the item not
later than the twentieth day after the date of the notice on payment of:
         (a)   Towing, preservation and storage charges; or
         (b)   Garage keeper's charges and fees.
      (4)   State that failure of the owner or lien holder to claim the item
during the period specified, is a waiver by that person of all right, title and
interest in the item; and consent to the sale of the item at a public auction.
(Ord. 156B, passed 7-14-2009) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.07 AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE.
   The Chief of Police or Code Enforcement Officer may enter upon private
property, at any reasonable time, for the purposes specified in this subchapter
to examine vehicles, watercrafts, outboard motors or parts thereof, obtain
information as to the identity of property and to remove or cause the removal
of a vehicle or parts thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this
subchapter. The Chief of Police shall have authority to issue all orders
necessary to enforce the subchapter.
(Ord. 156A, passed 7-24-1972; Ord. 156B, passed 7-14-2009) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.08 APPLICATION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall affect ordinances that permit immediate
removal of a vehicle, watercraft and outboard motor left on public property
which constitutes an obstruction to traffic.
(Ord. 156A, passed 7-24-1972; Ord. 156B, passed 7-14-2009)
NOISE
§ 99.20 PROHIBITION.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate or cause to be
used or operated, any mechanical or electrical device, machine, apparatus or
instrument to intensify or to amplify or to reproduce the human voice, or any
other sound, on any public right-of-way within the city, unless explicitly
otherwise provided for and regulated by city ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be at all times unlawful for any person to permit or allow
any musical instruments, phonograph, radio or other loud-speaking or noise-
making device or attachment to be played or operated on any premises under his
or her ownership, control or management, within the city in a manner and in
volume as to be unreasonable, offensive or disturbing either to the public on
the rights-of-way or to the owners or occupants of other premises in the
vicinity.
(Ord. 282A, passed 8-14-1990; Ord. 282B, passed 3-9-1999) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.21 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prevent any noise in or near, or on any
public street, alley, boulevard, thoroughfare within any of the corporate
limits of the city, which is reasonably calculated to disturb the peace and
good order of the persons owning, using, or occupying property adjacent to
public streets, alleys, boulevards and thoroughfares within any of the
incorporated limits of the city.
(Ord. 282A, passed 8-14-1990; Ord. 282B, passed 3-9-1999)
§ 99.22 USE OF SOUND AMPLIFICATION DEVICES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY WITHIN THE
VICINITY OF WASHINGTON PARK AND ARTURO GALVAN COASTAL PARK.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Means and includes and shall be construed to mean and
include all streets, sidewalks, rights-of-way, parks, utility stations or other
property owned by or reserved for the city or another public entity.
      SOUND AMPLIFICATION DEVICES. Means and shall be construed to mean any
bullhorn, megaphone, loudspeaker, organ, horn, drum, trumpet or other device,
powered or un-powered, capable of projecting or amplifying any sound audible to
the human ear.
      VICINITY OF ARTURO GALVAN COASTAL PARK. Means and shall be construed to
mean the upland sections of the park, as well as all submerged and tidally-
influenced lands within 100 feet of the upland portion of the park.
Additionally, the vicinity of Arturo Galvan Coastal Park means and shall be
construed to mean 2nd Street, continuing north from the intersection of North
Shore Drive, for a distance of 150 feet.
      VICINITY OF WASHINGTON PARK. Means and shall be construed to mean the
area bounded to the north by West Adams Street, to the east by South Longoria
Street, to the south by East Monroe Street and to the west by South Cisneros
Street.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section is not and shall not be held to be applicable
to:
      (1)   Any loudspeaker that is less than one inch in diameter, provided
that it is not connected by wired or wireless connection to more than four
loudspeakers, the total diameter of which, as calculated by adding the diameter
of all connected loudspeakers, cannot exceed two inches.
      (2)   Any event held or sponsored by the city.
   (C)   Enforcement. The duly constituted authorities of the city, including
the police department, Fire Marshal, code enforcement officer, City Secretary
and others having the duty of enforcing the ordinances of the city, shall
enforce the provisions of this section and allow no person to use a sound
amplification device on public property in the vicinity of Washington Park or
Arturo Galvan Coastal Park in violation of this section.
(Ord. 689, passed 8-2-2016)
OPEN BURNING
§ 99.35 PROHIBITION.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation to burn or cause to be burned any trash,
shavings, straw or other combustible substance within the city limits except at
and within the confines of the city dump.
(Ord. 197, passed 9-3-1958) Penalty, see §
99.99
ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS
§ 99.50 PROHIBITION.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation within the corporate limits of the city to
abandon, store or junk any refrigerator, ice box, cold storage box, deep freeze
or any container having attached or affixed to the door thereon a spring lock
or latch fastener or lock that permits the opening of the door from the outside
only, without first removing the door from the refrigerator, ice box, cold
storage box, deep freeze or container so abandoned, stored or junked. Provided
that this provision shall not apply or be deemed to apply to any refrigerator,
ice box, cold storage box, deep freeze or container, new or used, stored inside
of stores or the warehouse thereof offered for sale and not accessible to
children at play.
(Ord. 142, passed 1- -1954) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Abandoned motor vehicles. Upon conviction for violation of any
provisions of §§
99.01 through
99.08 relating to the maintaining of a public nuisance as described herein or
in permitting or allowing the public nuisance to exist, the violator shall be
punished by a fine of not exceeding $200 and each day that the nuisance shall
continue after the time for abatement as herein set out shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Noise.  
      (1)   Every person convicted of a violation of §§
99.20 and
99.21 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $200.
      (2)   (a)   A violation of any provision of §
99.22 shall be a misdemeanor offense and upon conviction thereof a person shall
be fined no less than $100 and not more than the maximum fine of $500 permitted
under applicable law and such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day or portion thereof in which the violation is
continued or permitted.
         (b)   The local code enforcement and law agency are authorized to
issue citations for any violations of §
99.22.
   (C)   Open burning. Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision
of §
99.35 on conviction be fined in any sum not less than $10 nor more than $200.
   (D)   Refrigerator. Any person who shall omit or refuse to comply with, or
who violates any of the provisions of §
99.50 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in any sum not to exceed $200 for each offense, and each day a
violation shall exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 142, passed 1- -1954; Ord. 197, passed 9-3-1958; Ord. 156A, passed 7-24-
1972; Ord. 282A, passed 8-14-1990; Ord. 156B, passed 7-14-2009; Ord. 689,
passed 8-2-2016)
CHAPTER 100: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Use of City Parks
   
100.01   Definitions
   
100.02   Unlawful acts
   
100.03   Use of city parks for events
   
100.04   Sales at public parks
   
100.05   Applicability
City Park Regulations
   
100.20   Hours
   
100.21   Exceptions
   
100.22   City dock exception
   
100.23   Signs to be posted
   
100.24   Prohibiting drilling and mining
City Dock Regulations
   
100.35   Fees
   
100.36   Rules and regulations
   
100.37   Duration at city dock
Baseball Park
   
100.50   Fees
   
100.51   Little League Association
   
100.52   Adult softball league
   
100.53   Permission for other groups
 
   
100.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking of vehicles and watercraft, see §§
72.01 et seq.
   Parks and Recreation Board, see §§
32.040 et seq.
USE OF CITY PARKS
§ 100.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Alcohol, or any beverage containing more than one-half
of 1% of alcohol by volume, which is capable of use for beverage purposes,
either alone or when diluted, as defined by the Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code §
1.04.
   CHAMBER. The Port Isabel Chamber of Commerce.
   CITY. The City of Port Isabel, Texas and its departments.
   DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION. The Director of the city's Parks and
Recreation Department, or his or her duly authorized representative.
   EVENTS. Receptions, parties, cook-offs, festivals and fund raising events of
a social, charitable or non-profit nature.
   PUBLIC PARKS. Any land, facility or building owned or maintained by the city
for recreational purposes including all designated parks, playgrounds and the
museum and Chamber locations.
(Ord. 449, passed 6-25-1985; Ord. 615, passed 5-10-2001)
§ 100.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit or attempt to commit in a
public park any one or more of the following acts:
   (A)   To hitch, fasten, lead, drive or let loose any animal, reptile or fowl
of any kind, provided that this shall not apply to dogs when led by a cord or
chain not more than six-feet long, except in designated areas;
   (B)   To ride or drive any horse or other animal, except in designated
areas. To ride, drive or go at a rate of speed faster than speed limits as
posted on standard signs, upon any bicycle, motorcycle, automobile or any other
vehicle whatsoever, upon any drive or street in any park of the city, or to
ride or drive any motorcycle, automobile or other motorized vehicle upon any
walk in the park, except in designated areas;
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this code, to carry or discharge any
firearms, firecrackers, rockets, torpedoes or any other fireworks, airguns, BB
guns, bows and arrows or slingshots; or to hit golf balls except in designated
areas;
   (D)   To damage, cut, break, injure, deface or disturb any tree, shrub,
plant, rock, building, cage, pen, monument, fence, bench or other structure,
apparatus or property; or to pluck, pull up, cut, take or remove any shrub,
bush, plant or flower; or to mark or write upon, paint or deface in any manner
any building, monument, bench or other structure;
   (E)   To cut or remove any wood, turf, grass, soil, rock, sand, gravel or
fertilizer;
   (F)   To pollute the water of any fountain, pond, lake or stream or other
water area in and surrounding the city;
   (G)   To make or kindle a fire, except in picnic stoves, braziers, fire pits
or designated areas provided for that purpose;
   (H)   To wash dishes or to empty saltwater or other waste liquid elsewhere
than in sinks provided for that purpose;
   (I)   To leave garbage cans, bottles, papers or other refuse elsewhere than
in receptacles provided therefor;
   (J)   To participate or engage in any activity on any public park area when
the activity will create a danger to the public or may be considered a public
nuisance. Particular locations may be designated within park areas for specific
activities;
   (K)   To camp, sleep or stay overnight on any park property;
   (L)   To remain, stay or loiter in any public park except during daylight
hours unless a special permit for nighttime use has been obtained from the
Director of Parks and Recreation;
   (M)   Except as otherwise provided in the rules and regulations of the
Community Center, to possess or consume any alcoholic beverages;
   (N)   To disturb in any manner any picnic, meeting, service, concert,
exercise or exhibition;
   (O)   To distribute, post, place or erect any advertising, handbill,
circular, bill, notice, paper or other advertising device without prior
permission of the City Commission;
   (P)   To sell or offer for sale any food, drinks, confections, merchandise
or services unless the person has a written agreement or a permit issued by the
City Commission; and
   (Q)   To practice, carry on, conduct or solicit for any trade, occupation,
business or profession, or to circulate any petition of whatsoever kind or
character without approval of the City Commission.
   (R)   To carry, posses or introduce any glass or ceramic bottle, lamp, jar
or container.
   (S)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to drill a well for the purpose of
exploring for or producing oil or gas, or to mine for any purpose within the
limits of the Galvan, Pompano and Washington Parks or within 250 feet of any
point located within the limits of Galvan, Pompano and Washington Parks.
      (2)   Drilling for water wells to be used to supply on-site irrigation or
recreational purposes shall be permitted, provided such drilling has been
approved by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department.
(Ord. 449, passed 6-25-1985; Ord. 449-A, passed --; Ord. 690, passed 12-13-
2016) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.03 USE OF CITY PARKS FOR EVENTS.
   (A)   Public parks may be used for city-sponsored and Chamber-sponsored
events. To the extent necessary, public parks may be temporarily closed to the
public and an admission fee may be charged for attendance at the events, or the
exclusive use of a park for a period of time not to exceed four hours may be
granted to a person or group provided that the event organizer has first
registered with the city at least two weeks in advance and paid a fee of $50.
The granting or denial of a permit to use a city park shall be within the sole
discretion of the City Manager. The use of the city baseball park is excepted
from this section, and remains subject to provisions of §§
100.50 through
100.53.
   (B)   The use of amusement devices is not permitted within a city park.
Amusement devices include, but are not limited to: inflatable slides, bouncers,
fun houses, carousels, trains, mechanical rides, roller coasters, trampolines
or other temporary equipment that is used primarily for the purposes of
amusement. Upon application to the City Manager, schools, religious
institutions and non-profit groups registered with the appropriate state or
federal authorities shall be permitted to use amusement devices, provided that
they have not previously used such devices within the calendar year and, in the
case of a non-profit, furnished proof of liability insurance in the amount of
at least $1,000,000 naming the city as an additional insured, or in the case of
a school, furnished a resolution by the board of trustees agreeing to indemnify
and hold the city harmless against any cause of action arising from the use of
the amusement device.
(Ord. 615, passed 5-10-2001; Ord. 615-A, passed 10-24-2017)
§ 100.04 SALES AT PUBLIC PARKS.
   In connection with city-sponsored and Chamber-sponsored events, there may be
sold or offered for sale food, drinks, alcoholic beverages, confections,
merchandise and services.
(Ord. 615, passed 5-10-2001)
§ 100.05 APPLICABILITY.
   Sections 100.03 and 100.04 shall apply only to city-sponsored and Chamber-
sponsored events at public parks as defined herein. All other uses of public
parks shall continue to be governed by §
100.02.
(Ord. 615, passed 5-10-2001)
CITY PARK REGULATIONS
§ 100.20 HOURS.
   All city parks except for the city dock will be closed from the hours of 11:
00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. on Sundays through Thursdays and from 12:00 a.m. until
6:00 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays.
(Ord. 486, passed 2-24-1987)
§ 100.21 EXCEPTIONS.
   If any organized sports activity occurring in the city parks begins before
the closing hour, it will be allowed to proceed to its natural conclusion
regardless of the hour without violating this subchapter. This exception is
allowed because of the nature of sporting events which can extend beyond their
normal periods which is beyond control of the participants.
(Ord. 486, passed 2-24-1987)
§ 100.22 CITY DOCK EXCEPTION.
   (A)   If any organized activity other than an organized sports activity
anticipates that it might remain on a city park premise beyond the closing
hour, the representative of the activity will be required to obtain an extended
hour permit which will allow those individuals involved in the activity to
remain on the premises of the city park one additional hour beyond the closing
hour for that evening. The City Secretary shall have the authority to issue the
permit. The fee for the permit shall be $ . Each additional evening shall
require a separate permit.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to enter upon the premises of any city
park except the city dock during the hours in which the parks are closed except
in those instances listed in §
100.21 and division (A) above.
(Ord. 486, passed 2-24-1987) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.23 SIGNS TO BE POSTED.
   The city shall post signs in the city parks at open and obvious locations
which contain the hours in which the parks are closed and also contain notice
that entry upon city park property during the hours in which the parks are
closed without a permit is a violation of this subchapter subject to imposition
of the fine listed herein.
(Ord. 486, passed 2-24-1987)
§ 100.24 PROHIBITING DRILLING AND MINING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drill a well for the purpose of exploring for
or producing oil and/or gas, or to mine for any purpose within the limits of
the Galvan, Pompano and Washington Parks or within 250 feet of any point
located within the limits of Galvan, Pompano and Washington Parks.
   (B)   Drilling for water wells to be used to supply on-site irrigation or
recreational purposes shall be permitted, provided such drilling has been
approved by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department.
(Ord. 03-10-2015-01, passed 3-24-2015; Am. Ord. 690, passed 12-13-2016)
CITY DOCK REGULATIONS
§ 100.35 FEES.
   The following rates shall be paid to the city by boat owners or boat
operators docking pleasure boats at the city dock.
 
For boats not using electricity          $0.05 per foot per day
For boats requiring the use of110 volts  $0.20 per foot per day
For boats requiring the use of 220 volts $0.25 per foot per day
No charge shall be made to bona fide Sea Scout boats staying less than one
week
 
(Ord. 374, passed 6-12-1978)
§ 100.36 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Boat owners or operators shall sign an agreement on a form furnished
by the city with the following conditions set forth:
      (1)   The city shall not be held responsible for any accident or injury
to owners, operators, crew-members or guests while the boat is docked at the
city dock;
      (2)   The city shall not be held responsible for any damage incurred by
the boat while docked at the city dock;
      (3)   Owners or operators agree to pay for any and all damage caused to
the city dock; and
      (4)   In the event that the boat should sink at the city dock, the owner
or operator shall raise the boat within ten days, and remove it from the city
dock.
   (B)   No commercial boat shall be allowed to dock or operate at the city
dock except in an emergency. A commercial boat is defined, as one that is
engaged in carrying freight for hire, crew boats, work boats, shrimp boats, bay
shrimp boats or crab boats.
   (C)   No major engine repairs or hull work shall be performed on any boat
docked at the city dock. Minor engine repairs and topside painting may be
performed.
   (D)   At all times a 50-foot length of dock space shall be reserved for any
boat that may need emergency docking.
   (E)   Fees and making application shall be disregarded during a hurricane
alert. Boats may dock in any available space until hurricane or alert has
passed.
(Ord. 374, passed 6-12-1978) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.37 DURATION AT CITY DOCK.
   (A)   Application for use of the city dock shall be for a period not
exceeding ten days.
   (B)   An extension of time shall be permitted when boat owner or operator
can show good cause for an extension.
(Ord. 374, passed 6-12-1978)
BASEBALL PARK
§ 100.50 FEES.
   (A)   A fee of $7 per game per day shall be charged for the use of the city
baseball park by the Port Isabel Adult Softball League for all league games.
   (B)   A fee of $14 per game per day shall be charged for the use of the city
baseball park for all tournaments sponsored by the Port Isabel Adult Softball
League.
(Ord. 491, passed 5-12-1987)
§ 100.51 LITTLE LEAGUE ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   No fee shall be charged to the Port Isabel Little League Association
for its use of the city baseball park.
   (B)   During the entire day or night in which the Little League Association
is using the city baseball park, regardless of whether it is also being used by
the Port Isabel Adult Softball League, the Little League Association shall have
the right to operate the concession area and pay all expenses and retain all
revenues earned during the time.
(Ord. 491, passed 5-12-1987)
§ 100.52 ADULT SOFTBALL LEAGUE.
   (A)   During the entire day or night in which only the Port Isabel Adult
Softball League is using the city baseball park, the city shall operate the
concession area or designate someone to operate it, and the city shall pay all
expenses and retain all revenues earned therefrom.
   (B)   During the entire day or night in which the Port Isabel Adult Softball
League shall sponsor a tournament, the city shall operate the concession area
or designate someone to operate it, and the city shall pay all expenses and
retain all revenues earned therefrom.
(Ord. 491, passed 5-12-1987)
§ 100.53 PERMISSION FOR OTHER GROUPS.
   Usage of the city baseball park by any other group or entity is not allowed
without prior permission of the city through its Park Director or City Manager.
(Ord. 491, passed 5-12-1987)
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Use of public parks.
      (1)   Any act committed upon public park property which is prohibited by
§
100.02 shall be cause for the arrest of any person so committing the prohibited
act by any law enforcement officer of the city, and the prosecution of the
person by the City Attorney. Jurisdiction for any suit brought to enforce a
penalty for a violation of §
100.02 shall be in the municipal court of the city.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
100.20 through
100.23 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $200 for each violation hereof and each
separate entry onto the park premises during the hours prohibited shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   City dock. Any person, firm, corporation or agent who shall violate
any provision of §§
100.35 through
100.37 or fail to comply therewith or with any of the requirements thereof
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each person, firm, corporation or agent shall
be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any violation of any of the provisions of §§
100.35 through
100.37 are permitted or continued; and upon conviction of any violation the
persons shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not to exceed $200.
   (C)   Baseball park. Any person, firm of corporation violating any provision
of §§
100.50 through
100.53 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $200 for each violation hereof and each day
the violation shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 374, passed 6-12-1978; Ord. 449, passed 6-25-1985; Ord. 486, passed 2-24-
1987; Ord. 491, passed 5-12-1987)
CHAPTER 101: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
101.01   General
   
101.02   Definitions
Procedure and Permit Requirements
   
101.15   Permit required
   
101.16   Approval or disapproval
   
101.17   Special requirements
   
101.18   Revocation
   
101.19   Restoration
Persons Requiring Permits
   
101.30   Contractor requirements
   
101.31   Contract work by city prepared construction plans
   
101.32   City forces and public utility requirements
Emergency Situations
   
101.45   Emergency situations
 
   
101.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 101.01 GENERAL.
   (A)   Any person who undertakes to perform any work upon, in, under, above
or about any public street, highway, roadway, alley or sidewalk, hereafter
collectively called public right-of-way, which requires that the street be
partially or completely closed for construction and/or maintenance operation
which work shall require excavation within or occupancy of the whole or a
portion of the width of any public right-of-way by equipment, materials, debris
or workers shall use barricades, signals, flags, flares and all other traffic
control and warning devices and procedures about the work area during the
duration of the work within the public right-of-way of the type and in the
manner required by the Uniform Barricading Standards adopted herein below. The
persons shall also be required to obtain a permit from the responsible person
if the specifications stated in §
101.16 are applicable, with the exception of the State Department of Highways
and Public Transportation conducting work on any state designated system. In
these cases no permit is required. This permit must be acquired before
construction is begun. Purpose of the permit is to ensure that ample
consideration has been given to the effect of the construction work on the flow
of traffic.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the permit-holder to provide, erect,
place and maintain all warning signs, traffic control devices and barricades
required by the Texas Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices or the
responsible person. All such signs, devices and barricades should be in good
condition, clean and legible and shall be of the type required by the Texas
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices; provided that the responsible person
may authorize the use of different or special devices and equipment if, in his
or her opinion, such equipment will be at least as effective for its intended
purpose as that set forth for such purpose in the Texas Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices. When additional regulatory signs are deemed necessary
by the responsible person such signing will be installed as directed by the
designated department along with such regulatory signs as are required to be
provided by the city as required by the Manual.
(Ord. 111A, passed - -) Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 101.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Port Isabel.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person or group of persons entering into an agreement with
the city.
   DETOUR. An alternate route in which vehicular traffic is directed around a
street which is closed.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state, that calls for immediate action.
   MANUAL. The "Manual on Uniform Barricading Standards."
   PERMIT. A written letter of approval from the responsible person or his or
her appointed representative.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any public street, highway, roadway, alley, or
sidewalk.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. The responsible person of the designated department of
the City of Port Isabel, Texas or any appointed representative.
   SHALL, SHOULD AND MAY. The word SHALL is a mandatory condition, the word
SHOULD is an advisory condition to insure safe operation conditions, and the
word MAY is a permissive condition.
   STREETS AND ALLEYS. The term STREET shall mean a traveled way for vehicular
traffic, whether designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway,
throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place or however otherwise
designated.
      (1)   ALLEYS. Minor traveled ways which are used primarily for vehicular
service access to the back or the side of properties otherwise abutting on a
street.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Those which carry traffic from minor streets to
the major system of arterial streets and highways including the principal
entrance streets of a residential development and streets for circulation
within such a development.
      (3)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARES OR ARTERIAL STREETS. Principal traffic arteries
more or less continuous across the city which are intended to connect remote
parts of the city and which are used primarily for fast or heavy volume traffic
and shall include but not be limited to each street designated as a major
street on the major street plan.
      (4)   MINOR STREETS. Those which are used primarily for access to
abutting residential properties which are intended to serve traffic within a
limited residential district.
(Ord. 111A, passed - -)
PROCEDURE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 101.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   When a permit is required, the permit application shall, unless otherwise
authorized by the responsible person for good cause shown, be filed with the
responsible person at least five days prior to the day the applicant seeks to
first close or block any part of the roadway and shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   The name, telephone number, local address and principal place of
business of the applicant;
   (B)   The name and day and night telephone number of the engineer,
foreperson or other person who will be in charge of the construction or repairs
for which the application is requested;
   (C)   The times of the day and total number of calendar days the applicant
seeks to block the roadway;
   (D)   A statement signed by the applicant, or a person authorized to bind
the applicant, that the applicant, will indemnify and forever hold the city
harmless against each and every claim, demand or cause of action that may be
made or come against it by reason of or in any way arising out of the closing
or blocking of the roadway by the applicant under a permit from the city, if a
permit is granted;
   (E)   A standard barricading layout showing placement of barricades, cones
and informational signs used on the project;
   (F)   An explanation as to the nature or type of work that is to be
performed along with its location; and
   (G)   Any other information deemed necessary by the responsible person.
(Ord. 111A, passed - -)
§ 101.16 APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   The responsible person shall either approve or disapprove the
application in five business days after it is submitted. The responsible person
may approve an application either as applied for or subject to special
requirements, as provided in §
101.17 which special requirements shall be endorsed on the permit when issued
and become a part thereof. If an application is not approved, the responsible
person shall so notify the applicant, in writing, stating the reasons for
disapproval. An applicant may, if he or she so desires, undertake the revision
of the unapproved application and re-submit it to the responsible person who
shall approve, approve subject to special requirements, or disapprove the
amended application within two business days.
   (B)   The responsible person may disapprove applications for permits under
this subchapter only for the following reasons:
      (1)   The proposed barricading, channelizings, signing, warning or other
traffic control procedures or the equipment therefor do not comply with the
requirements of the Manual;
      (2)   The nature of the work to be performed or its location is such that
the work may, without imposing any undue hardship on the applicant, be
performed without the necessity of blocking or closing the roadway;
      (3)   The work or the manner in which it is to be performed will violate
a city ordinance or a state statute;
      (4)   Failure to furnish all of the information required by this
subchapter or, except for good cause shown, to file the application within the
time prescribed by the subchapter; and
      (5)   Misrepresenting or falsifying any information in the application.
(Ord. 111A, passed - -)
§ 101.17 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The responsible person may at the time he or she approves an
application or anytime after a permit is issued require:
      (1)   The use or specific location of additional barricades, signals,
signs or other traffic control or safety devices or the pursuance of special
traffic control or safety procedures;
      (2)   The work be performed only at certain hours during the day or
night, or during specified days of the week;
      (3)   Only a specified area or not more than a specified number of lanes
shall be blocked at the same time or at specified times of the day;
      (4)   The materials and equipment used in the work site and dirt removed
from any excavation be located other than in the vehicle traffic lanes of the
roadway; and
      (5)   All equipment be moved from the traffic lanes and any excavation in
the traffic lanes be covered or filled with materials of sufficient strength
and construction to permit vehicular traffic to pass over the excavation during
all or part of the peak traffic periods or at night.
   (B)   When requirements are deemed necessary by the responsible person in
the interest of public safety and to avoid traffic congestion, any special
requirements shall be endorsed on the permit and shall be a part thereof.
(Ord. 111A, passed - -)
§ 101.18 REVOCATION.
   Any designated responsible person or his or her authorized representatives
may revoke a permit issued hereunder if any of the permit holder's barricading,
signing, channelizing, warning or other traffic control procedures or the
equipment at the work site do not comply with the requirements of the Manual,
or with any special requirements imposed by the responsible person. The permit
holder, or the person named as responsible for or in charge of the work in the
permit, shall first be notified of the failure or defect and be given a
reasonable time, the length of time to be determined by the responsible person
and not to exceed 24 hours, to correct same before the permit is revoked. In
the event a permit issued under this subchapter is revoked, it shall be
unlawful to continue to block the roadway, except to restore the site to its
proper condition as required herein.
(Ord. 111A, passed - -) Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 101.19 RESTORATION.
   In the event a permit is revoked, the permit holder shall immediately
commence operations to restore the work area within the roadway to its proper
condition, the work to be completed within 24 hours. In addition, except as
required to restore the work area to its proper condition, the permit holder
shall remove all equipment, men, materials and debris from the roadway. In the
event the restoration is not done, the city shall be authorized, at its
election, to take charge of the work and restore the premises to its proper
condition and shall be entitled to recover from the permit holder by civil
action the actual expenses incurred by the city in restoring the premises,
including, but not limited to, cost of labor, materials, overhead, rental of
any equipment used by the city in restoring the site and attorney fees, and for
those purposes, the city shall have a right of action against any bonds in
effect running from the holder of the permit to the city, conditioned upon
compliance with the ordinances of the city in the performance of the work.
(Ord. 111A, passed - -) Penalty, see §
101.99
PERSONS REQUIRING PERMITS
§ 101.30 CONTRACTOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any contractor undertaking any work whether of his or her own, or
under contract for any other person, and the work is within a city street and
requires that a set of plans be drawn up due to the extensive and/or complex
nature of the work will be subject to the provisions set forth in this section,
and must file for a permit before beginning construction. Proof must also be
shown that he or she has obtained approval by other affected agencies of the
city to actually perform the work.
   (B)   A plan must be prepared by the contracting agency showing where work
is to be performed. The plan will include a standard barricading layout showing
placement of barricades, cones and informational signs used on the project. In
most cases, layouts will be similar to those shown in the latter part of the
attached Manual. Deviation from the Manual will be allowed only with approval
of the responsible person or his or her appointed representative.
   (C)   The plan as mentioned in division (B) above must be submitted a
minimum of five business days prior to actual beginning of the construction
work. This time period will allow the designated department the opportunity to
survey the construction site in an attempt to uncover any traffic problems
which might develop as a result of the barricading.
   (D)   Each contractor or construction agency will provide with his or her
barricading plan a listing of all persons directly responsible for the safety
on each project to include an address or a telephone listing at which the
person can be reached at any hour of the day if a hazardous condition develops.
(Ord. 111A, passed - -)
§ 101.31 CONTRACT WORK BY CITY PREPARED CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   In the event the contractor undertakes work based on plans prepared by
the designated department, all detour and barricading requirements will be
inserted as part of the construction plans.
   (B)   In this situation, the contractor's acceptance of the construction
project will serve as indication that he or she understands the layout and is
responsible subject to the penalties established in the attached Manual.
(Ord. 111A, passed - -)
§ 101.32 CITY FORCES AND PUBLIC UTILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All city forces, as well as public utility companies performing
construction work within a street which requires that a set of plans be drawn
up due to the extensive and/or complex nature of work, will be subject to the
same requirements established in §
101.30 above. The work would include major street construction (street cuts,
street widening and the like), water and sewerage line laying or relocation or
off-street construction which requires that a portion of the adjacent roadway
be barricaded.
   (B)   Construction work performed by city forces or utility companies, minor
enough so that a set of plans need not be drawn up will not be subject to the
same requirements established in §
101.30 above. The work includes minor street construction (re-surfacing,
patching, striping), minor utility work (usage of manholes so that a lane must
be barricaded) and the like. These forces will be required, however, to comply
with all other provisions set forth in the Manual as to the construction site
barricade layout and signing. In addition, the responsible person or his or her
authorized representative shall be contacted before the construction work is
begun and be informed of the location and nature of construction. This work
shall not be performed during the peak hour congestion periods of 7:00 a.m. to
9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., unless approved by the responsible
person.
(Ord. 111A, passed - -)
EMERGENCY SITUATIONS
§ 101.45 EMERGENCY SITUATIONS.
   The requirements as mentioned above are to be used for all planned
construction projects. In the event of an emergency type situation,
notification of work to be done can be made by telephone directly to the
responsible person or his or her appointed representative, thereby, bypassing
the requirements mentioned above. Under these conditions the contractor or
agency will still be required to follow the basic barricading standards as
outlined in the attached Manual.
(Ord. 111A, passed - -)
§ 101.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $200.
Each day of the violation shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty
shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any other rights or remedies the city
may have.
(Ord. 111A, passed - -)
CHAPTER 102: WATERCRAFT
Section
   
102.01   Prohibition
   
102.02   Anchorage
   
102.03   Refuse and waste material
   
102.04   Discharge of bilges
   
102.05   Speed
   
102.06   Removal of hulks
   
102.07   Collision; dock damage
   
102.08   Enforcement officer
   
102.09   "The Fingers" restrictions
 
   
102.99   Penalty
§ 102.01 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for the master, owner, operator or agent of any boat,
vessel or other watercraft within the harbor limits of the city or using the
navigable waters lying within the territorial limits of the city, or for any
other person to do any of the acts prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 262, passed 9-14-1964) Penalty, see §
102.99
§ 102.02 ANCHORAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to anchor, moor, place or anywise leave within the
Small Boat Harbor of the city or in any of the navigable waters located within
this city any vessel, skiff, barge, houseboat, raft or other watercraft
whatsoever in any manner so that the same will obstruct the free navigation of
the waters.
(Ord. 262, passed 9-14-1964) Penalty, see §
102.99
§ 102.03 REFUSE AND WASTE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful to throw, discharge or deposit or permit to be thrown,
discharged or deposited from or out of any vessel, barge or other watercraft of
any kind into the waters of the Small Boat Harbor or in any of the navigable
waters situated within the city, or upon the shores or banks thereof, or upon
the wharves or dock of the city, any refuse, rubbish or unwholesome or decayed
matter of any kind or any waste substance or material, or permit any materials
of any kind to go into the waters of the city that would constitute an
impediment or danger to navigation or a nuisance to health.
(Ord. 262, passed 9-14-1964) Penalty, see §
102.99
§ 102.04 DISCHARGE OF BILGES.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause or permit to be deposited, thrown,
discharged or to escape into the waters of the Small Boat Harbor of the city or
into any of the waters situated within the territorial limits of the city, any
inflammable liquid, petroleum, petroleum products, coal, tar or any other
carbonaceous material or substance, product or compound thereof, or bilge
water, or any other element containing any of the materials or substances.
(Ord. 262, passed 9-14-1964) Penalty, see §
102.99
§ 102.05 SPEED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any boat, vessel or other watercraft
on the following described navigable waters within the territorial limits of
the city at a speed in excess of three nautical miles (three knots) per hour/
three and three-eighths mph or at a speed that would cause a wake of six or
more inches:
      (1)   The part of the entrance channel extending from the city's Small
Boat Harbor to the Laguna Madre lying between and extending from the Small Boat
Harbor to the posts, buoys or other navigational aids marking the entrance to
the channel;
      (2)   The Small Boat Harbor of the city;
      (3)   All of the navigable channels lying and being situated in the
Modern Venice Subdivision of the city; and
      (4)   The part of the navigable channel extending from the city's Small
Boat Harbor at its intersection with State Highway 100, southwesterly to its
intersection with the city limits line of the city.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting the operator of any
boat, vessel or other watercraft from taking action, including excessive speed,
necessary to avoid collision or injury to person or property.
(Ord. 262, passed 9-14-1964; Ord. 262B, passed 8-25-1987) Penalty, see §
102.99
§ 102.06 REMOVAL OF HULKS.
   In the event a boat, vessel or other watercraft shall sink from any cause
and the position of the boat, vessel or other watercraft is such as to be an
obstruction to the navigation of any of the navigable waters within the
territorial limits of the city, it shall be unlawful for the person having
charge of the vessel, master, owner or agent, to fail or refuse to raise and
remove the same within 15 days from and after the receipt of notice from the
City Secretary, requiring him or her to raise and remove the same, and every
day the vessel remains unmoved after the receipt of the notice shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. 262, passed 9-14-1964) Penalty, see §
102.99
§ 102.07 COLLISION; DOCK DAMAGE.
   In the event of a collision between vessels or in the event any damage is
done to the docks, wharves or other property of the city, by any boat, vessel
or other watercraft, the collision or damage must be reported to the Chief of
Police of the city within 24 hours of the occurrence by the owner or operator
of the vessel or vessels involved; the report shall be in writing and shall set
forth the time, place, causes nature and consequence of the collision or
occurrence.
(Ord. 262, passed 9-14-1964)
§ 102.08 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Chief of Police is hereby specifically authorized and empowered to
enforce the provisions of this chapter within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 262, passed 9-14-1964)
§ 102.09 "THE FINGERS" RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person may attempt to take any fish, shrimp, green turtle,
loggerhead or terrapin by the use of a seine, drag, fike, setnet, trammelnet,
trap, dam or weir from the navigable waterways known as "the Fingers" within
the city limits.
   (B)   The area designated as "the Fingers" is shown by the highlighted
portion of Exhibit A, attached to Ordinance 262A hereto and made a part hereof
for all purposes, a copy of which is available in the office of the City
Secretary.
   (C)   The Planning Department of the city shall set out and maintain buoys,
stakes and other markers showing the limits within which division (A) above of
this section applies.
(Ord. 262A, passed 9-27-1982) Penalty, see §
102.99
§ 102.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the terms of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in any sum not less
than $1 nor more than $200.
   (B)   A person who violates §
102.08(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction is punishable by a fine
of not less than $25 nor more than $200.
(Ord. 262, passed 9-14-1964; Ord. 262A, passed 9-27-1982)
CHAPTER 103: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
103.01   Declaration of policy
   
103.02   Definitions
   
103.03   Sale or rental of housing
   
103.04   Financing of housing
   
103.05   Provision of brokerage service
   
103.06   Exemptions and exclusions
   
103.07   Complaints
   
103.08   Investigation and attempt at conciliation by Chairperson
   
103.09   Certification of violation to City Attorney; City Attorney may
institute proceedings
   
103.10   Issuance of subpoenas in aid of enforcement
   
103.11   Authority of Chairperson to delegate
   
103.12   Cooperation with Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
   
103.13   Unlawful intimidation
   
103.14   Dismissal of proceedings subject to federal precedence
   
103.15   Dismissal of proceedings upon commencement of trial
 
   
103.99   Penalty
§ 103.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the city to bring
about, through fair, orderly lawful procedures the opportunity for each natural
person to enjoy a good, wholesome and decent dwelling without regard to his or
her race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental
handicap, status as a student, marital status, parenthood, sexual orientation
or age.
   (B)   It is further declared that this policy is grounded upon recognition
of the inalienable right of each natural person as a human being to provide for
himself, herself and his or her family a dwelling according to his or her own
choosing; and further, that the denial of the rights through considerations
based upon race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical or
mental handicap, status as a student, marital status, parenthood, sexual
orientation or age is detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city and constitutes an unjust denial or deprivation of the
inalienable right which is properly within the power of government to prevent
and is the proper responsibility of government to prevent.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977)
§ 103.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGE. The calendar age of an individual 18 years of age or over.
   CREED. Any set of principles, rules, opinions and precepts formally
expressed and seriously adhered to or maintained by a person.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Human Relations Department or authorized
assistant.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act which is unlawful under this Code.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed and intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more persons
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereof of any building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. A single individual or a group of individuals living together under
one common roof.
   MAJOR LIFE ACTIVITIES. Functions such as, but not limited to, caring for
one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking,
breathing, learning and working.
   MARITAL STATUS. An individual's status as a single, married, divorced,
widowed or separated person.
   PARENTHOOD. A person's status as a parent or legal guardian of a child or
children under the age of 18.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HANDICAP. Any physical or mental impairment which
substantially limits one or more major life activities.
   PHYSICAL OR MENTAL IMPAIRMENT.
      (1)   Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement or
anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems:
neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including
speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic
and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
      (2)   Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation,
organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness and specific learning
disabilities.
   SENIOR ADULT. A person 55 years of age or older.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 362A, passed 6-27-1989)
§ 103.03 SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to refuse to:
      (1)   Sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to refuse to
negotiate for the sale or the rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or deny,
a dwelling to any person because of race, color, creed, religion, sex, national
origin, physical or mental handicap, status as a student, marital status
parenthood, sexual orientation or age;
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, creed, religion,
sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap, status as a student, marital
status, parenthood, sexual orientation or age;
      (3)   Make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental
handicap, status as a student, marital status, parenthood, sexual orientation
or age, or an intention to make any preference, limitation or discrimination;
      (4)   Represent to any person because of race, color, creed, religion,
sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap, status as a student, marital
status, parenthood, sexual orientation or age, that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available; or
      (5)   Profit, or with the hope or expectation of profit, to induce or
attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling by representations
regarding the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or
persons of a particular race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin,
physical or mental handicap, status as a student, marital status, parenthood,
sexual orientation or age.
   (B)   Provided, however, nothing in this section shall be construed to
prohibit or make unlawful any legitimate exercise of business judgment or any
valid exercise of freedom of contract not based upon considerations of race,
color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap,
status as a student, marital status, parenthood, sexual orientation or age.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977) Penalty, see §
103.99
§ 103.04 FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part of making commercial real estate loans, to deny a
loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rates, duration or other terms or conditions of a loan or other
conditions of a loan or other financial assistance, because of the race, color,
creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap, status as a
student, marital status, parenthood, sexual orientation or age of the person or
of any person associated with him or her in connection with the loan or other
financial assistance for the purpose of the loan or other financial assistance,
or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or other occupants of
the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which the loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977) Penalty, see §
103.99
§ 103.05 PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate broker's
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in terms or conditions of access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental
handicap, status as a student, marital status, parenthood, sexual orientation
or age.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977) Penalty, see §
103.99
§ 103.06 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions and exclusions are:
      (1)   Hereof all transactions involving the rental of units in dwellings
containing living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than
four families living independently of each other if the owner actually
maintains and occupies one of the units as his or her residence;
      (2)   The rental of single room in a dwelling containing living quarters
occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than one family if the person
offering the room for rental actually maintains and occupies the remainder of
the dwelling as his or her residence and not more than four rooms are offered;
and
      (3)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
the private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses
at any one time: provided further, that in the case of the sale of any single-
family house by a private individual owner not residing in the house at the
time of the sale or who was not the most recent resident of the house prior to
the sale, the exemption granted by this division shall apply only with respect
to one sale within any 24-month period: provided further, that the bona fide
private individual owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title
to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of,
more than three single-family houses at any one time: provided further, that
the sale or rental of any single-family house shall be excepted from the
application of this chapter only if the house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman,
or of the facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings or of any employee or agent, salesman or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
103.03(A)(3) of this chapter; but nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious association, or
society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to the persons, unless membership in the
religion is restricted on account of race, color, creed, religion, sex,
national origin, physical or mental handicap, status as a student, marital
status, parenthood, sexual orientation or age.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a bona fide private club not in
fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977)
§ 103.07 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter referred to
as "person aggrieved") may file a complaint with the Chairperson of the Board.
The complaints shall be in writing and shall identify the person alleged to
have committed or alleged to be about to commit the discriminatory housing
practice and shall set forth the particulars thereof. The Chairperson of the
Board is directed to prepare and adopt from time to time standard complaint
forms and to furnish them without charge to any person aggrieved. The
Chairperson of the Board and his or her staff and employees may assist in the
clerical preparation of the complaints.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board shall receive and accept notification and
referral of complaints from the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
pursuant to the provisions of Title VIII, Fair Housing, Civil Rights Act of
1968, Pub. L. No. 90-284, 90th Congress, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq. and
shall treat the complaints hereunder in the same manner as complaints filed
directly by the person aggrieved with the Chairperson of the Board.
   (C)   If, in the course of any investigation as provided in §
103.08 hereof on a complaint filed with or referred to the Chairperson of the
Board, he or she shall receive credible evidence and shall have probable cause
to believe that the person or persons named in the complaint have committed or
are about to commit a discriminatory housing practice on grounds not stated in
the complaint, the Chairperson of the Board may prepare and file a
supplementary complaint upon his or her own motion and in his or her own name
and the supplementary complaint shall thereafter be treated in the same manner
as an original complaint filed by a person aggrieved.
   (D)   If in the course of any investigation as provided in §
103.08 hereof on a complaint filed with or referred to the Chairperson of the
Board, he or she shall receive or discover credible evidence and shall have
probable cause to believe that the person or persons named in the complaint
have committed or are about to commit a discriminatory housing practice or
practices as to which no complaint has been filed, the Chairperson of the Board
may prepare and file a complaint upon his or her own motion and in his or her
own name and the complaint shall thereafter be treated in the same manner as a
complaint filed by a person aggrieved.
   (E)   If at any time the Chairperson of the Board shall receive or discover
credible evidence and shall have probable cause to believe that any person or
persons have committed or are about to commit a discriminatory housing practice
or practices as to which no complaint has been filed or is about to be filed,
the Chairperson of the Board may prepare and file a complaint upon his or her
own motion and in his or her own name and the complaint shall thereafter be
treated in the same manner as a complaint filed by a person aggrieved.
   (F)   Upon the filing or referral of any complaint, the Chairperson of the
Board shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or persons named in the
complaint who allegedly committed or are about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice.
   (G)   A complaint under the four subsections shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall
state the facts upon which the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice
are based. Complaints may be reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A
respondent may file an answer to the complaint against him or her and, with the
leave of the Chairperson of the Board, which shall be granted whenever it would
be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his or her answer at any time. Both
complaints and answers shall be subscribed and sworn to before an officer
authorized to administer oaths.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977)
§ 103.08 INVESTIGATION AND ATTEMPT AT CONCILIATION BY CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint as herein provided, the Chairperson of
the Board shall cause to be made a prompt investigation of the matter stated in
the complaint.
   (B)   In connection with the investigation, the Chairperson of the Board may
interrogate and take and record the testimony and statements of the persons as
may voluntarily appear and as he or she may lawfully require to appear and the
Chairperson of the Board may examine, record and copy the records and documents
as may be voluntarily submitted to him or her and as he or she may lawfully
enter and examine.
   (C)   During or after the investigation the Chairperson of the Board shall,
if it appears that a discriminatory housing act has occurred or is about to
occur, attempt by informal endeavors to effect conciliation in the matter,
including voluntary discontinuance of any discriminatory housing practice,
rectification of the discriminatory housing practice complained of, voluntary
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and receipt of adequate
assurances of future voluntary compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing said or done in the course of the informal endeavors at
conciliation shall be made public in a way as to make public identification of
the person or persons named in the complaint without the written consent of the
persons involved.
   (E)   Nothing said or done in the course of the informal endeavors at
conciliation may be used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this
chapter without the written consent of the person concerned.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977)
§ 103.09 CERTIFICATION OF VIOLATION TO CITY ATTORNEY; CITY ATTORNEY MAY
INSTITUTE PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   If the Commission shall determine that a discriminatory housing
practice violation of this chapter has occurred and if a hearing before the
Commission on the complaint alleging such violation has been waived or if the
Commission has held a hearing on the complaint of such violation and the
efforts of the Commission to secure voluntary discontinuance, rectification,
voluntary compliance and assurances of future voluntary compliance have been
unsuccessful, the Commission shall cause the Chairman of the Board to certify
in writing to the City Attorney that such discriminatory housing practice
violation has occurred and request the City Attorney to forthwith institute
civil proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to secure compliance
with this chapter and to enforce the rights granted or protected by this
chapter or to forthwith prosecute such violation in the Corporation Court of
the City of Port Isabel.
   (B)   Upon certification by the Chairman of the Board pursuant to the
direction of the Commission, the City Attorney shall, upon sufficient evidence,
institute a civil proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction or institute
a charge in the Corporation Court of the City of Port Isabel, as to him or her
shall seem most effective to further the policy of this chapter and to secure
the rights sought to be secured and protected thereby. Promptly following his
or her determination either to institute a civil proceeding or to institute a
charge in the Corporation Court of the City of Port Isabel, the City Attorney
shall notify the respondent of the type of action he or she proposes to
institute.
      (1)   If the City Attorney shall determine to institute civil proceedings
in a court of competent jurisdiction, he or she shall proceed at law or in
equity, by injunction, mandamus, or such other remedy as shall seem
appropriate, to secure compliance with this chapter and to enforce the rights
granted or protected by this chapter.
      (2)   If the City Attorney shall determine to institute a charge in the
Corporation Court of the City of Port Isabel, he or she shall institute such
charge against the alleged violator or violators of this ordinance and
prosecute the same to final conclusion.
      (3)   The certification to the City Attorney and the actions provided
herein to be taken by the City Attorney shall be cumulative of all other
remedies and procedures for the effectuation and enforcement of this chapter
and the prosecution of alleged violators of this chapter.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977)
§ 103.10 ISSUANCE OF SUBPOENAS IN AID OF ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In connection with any investigation by the Chairperson under the
provisions of §
103.08 and in connection with the conduct of any hearings before the Commission
under the provisions of §
103.09, the Commission may issue subpoenas to compel the appearance of persons
and to compel access to or the production of records and documents to the same
extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas were
issued in aid of a prosecution before the Corporation Court of the city.
   (B)   The Commission may issue, upon its own motion, subpoenas in the name
of the Commission.
   (C)   Upon written application to the Commission, the Chairperson shall be
entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the name
of the Commission. Subpoenas issued at the request of the Chairperson shall
state on their face that they were issued at the request of the Chairperson.
   (D)   Upon written application to the Commission, a respondent shall be
entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the name
of the Commission. Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall state
they were issued at his or her request.
   (E)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, the
person may petition the Commission to revoke or modify the subpoena. The
Commission shall grant the petition if it finds that the subpoena requires
appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires
production of evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation,
that it does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be
produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   (F)   If any person shall wilfully and unlawfully fail or neglect to attend
and testify or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or
other evidence, if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena
of the Commission, the Commission shall cause the Chairperson of the Board to
certify the facts to the City Attorney, together with a copy of the subpoena
and request the City Attorney to forthwith institute a charge in the
Corporation Court of the city and to prosecute the same to conclusion.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977)
§ 103.11 AUTHORITY OF CHAIRPERSON TO DELEGATE.
   The Chairperson may delegate any of his or her functions, duties and powers
to employees in the office of the Chairperson, including functions, duties and
powers with respect to investigating, conciliating, hearing determining,
ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to any work, business or
matter under this chapter.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977)
§ 103.12 COOPERATION WITH SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT.
   The Commission and the Chairperson are authorized and encouraged to
cooperate with the Secretary for Housing and Urban Development pursuant to the
provisions of Title VIII, Fair Housing, Civil Rights Act of 1968, Pub. L. No.
90-284, 90th Congress, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq. and may render the
service to the Secretary as they shall deem appropriate to further the policies
of this chapter and may accept reimbursement from the Secretary for services
rendered to assist him or her in carrying out the provisions of the above cited
federal law. In furtherance of the cooperative efforts, the Commission may
enter into written agreements with the Secretary pursuant to the above cited
federal law.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977)
§ 103.13 UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether or not acting under color of
law, by force or threat of force to wilfully injure, intimidate or interfere
with, or attempt to injure, intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, creed, religion, sex,
national origin, physical or mental handicap, status as a student, marital
status, parenthood, sexual orientation or age and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been or in order to intimidate
the person or any other person or class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap, status as a
student, marital status, parenthood, sexual orientation or age, in any of the
activities, services organizations or facilities described in this section; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to discourage
the person or any other person from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap, status as a
student, marital status, parenthood, sexual orientation or age, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in this section, or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceable assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity so to participate.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977) Penalty, see §
103.99
§ 103.14 DISMISSAL OF PROCEEDINGS SUBJECT TO FEDERAL PRECEDENCE.
   If a complaint has been filed with the Chairperson under the provisions of
this chapter and if the complainant shall have filed with the Secretary for
Housing and Urban Development under the provisions of Title VIII, Fair Housing,
Civil Rights Act of 1968, Pub. L. No. 90-284, 90th Congress, a similar
complaint arising out of the same transaction and if the Secretary shall act on
the complaint on the ground that this chapter does not afford rights and
remedies substantially equal to those afforded under federal law and that,
therefore, the federal proceeding takes precedence over the proceeding under
this chapter, then the proceedings under this chapter shall be dismissed.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977)
§ 103.15 DISMISSAL OF PROCEEDINGS UPON COMMENCEMENT OF TRIAL.
   If a complaint has been filed with the Chairperson under the provisions of
this chapter and if the complainant shall have initiated a court proceeding in
a federal or state court upon a similar complaint arising out of the same
transaction, when the court proceeding shall come to trial, the proceedings
under this chapter shall be dismissed.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977)
§ 103.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any one or more of the provisions of §§
103.03,
103.04,
103.05 or
103.13 of this chapter shall upon conviction of each violation thereof be
punished for each violation by a fine of not more than $200.
   (B)   Any person who wilfully and unlawfully fails or neglects to attend and
testify or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or
other evidence, if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena
of the Commission shall upon conviction thereof be punished by a fine of not
more than $200.
(Ord. 362, passed 4-11-1977)
CHAPTER 104: EVENTS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
104.01   Definitions
   
104.02   Event sponsor
   
104.03   Permission of City Commission required
   
104.04   Pre-approval process
   
104.05   Scheduling and duration of event
   
104.06   Maximum interval of transit
   
104.07   Single group required
   
104.08   Use of law enforcement
   
104.09   Placement of traffic control devices
   
104.10   Actual cost to be reimbursed
   
104.11   All permits subject to approval by affected jurisdictions
   
104.12   Permits subject to revocation
   
104.13   Fees
   
104.14   Waivers
 
   
104.99   Penalty
§ 104.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EVENT. Any function, rally, race, contest, assembly, or gathering that
occurs at a defined point in time.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, sidewalk, alley, or easement, including a
state highway, within the corporate limits of the City of Port Isabel.
   USE. Any use by participants in an event that is distinguishable from the
ordinary and customary use of the public rights-of-way by the general public,
or which requires the closure of all or part of a public rights-of-way, or
which delays or hinders the ordinary and customary use of the public rights-of-
way by the general public.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.02 EVENT SPONSOR.
   All events must be sponsored by an organization or person who agrees to be
responsible for the conduct of the event and compliance with the ordinances of
the City of Port Isabel and the laws of the State of Texas. The event sponsor
must identify a natural person who agrees to be personally liable for the
conduct of the event.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.03 PERMISSION OF CITY COMMISSION REQUIRED.
   At least 90 days prior to the start of any event, the event sponsor shall
request permission of the City of Port Isabel, via its City Commission, for the
conduct of the event within the corporate limits of the City of Port Isabel.
The granting of permission for an event shall be at the sole discretion of the
City Commission. Upon approval by the City Commission, the City Secretary shall
issue an event permit to the event sponsor.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.04 PRE-APPROVAL PROCESS.
   In order to request permission from the City of Port Isabel, the event
sponsor shall first contact the Chief of Police, the Director of Public Works,
and the Fire Marshal, and using the form provided by the city, obtain approval
of his or her plans for the event. Those officers of the city, as well as the
City Manager, shall be entitled to request of the event sponsor any information
deemed necessary for the review of the event, including sponsor background,
resumes of sponsor personnel, event financial information, sponsor financial
information, traffic plan, event plans, schedule, and estimate of number of
attendees.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.05 SCHEDULING AND DURATION OF EVENT.
   (A)   Restricted dates. No event on SH 100 shall be permitted to be held
between Labor Day and Memorial Day, nor during the month of March, nor in the
week preceding Easter, nor on Easter Day.
   (B)   Restricted times. No event on SH 100 shall be permitted before 5:00
a.m. nor after 11:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   Length of event. No event on SH 100 shall be permitted to extend
longer than three hours.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.06 MAXIMUM INTERVAL OF TRANSIT.
   (A)   During an event, the maximum interval at which the first and last
participant in the event may transit any point on SH 100 within the corporate
limits of the City of Port Isabel is 30 minutes. The event sponsor shall
require any participant who transits a single point on SH 100 beyond the
maximum interval to immediately discontinue their participation in the event.
   (B)   This requirement may be waived by the Chief of Police at his or her
discretion.
   (C)   The event sponsor shall furnish, at his or her expense, a vehicle or
vehicles capable of removing any discontinued participant from the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.07 SINGLE GROUP REQUIRED.
   (A)   In the case of events in which the participants ride horses,
motorcycles, or bicycles, all the participants shall proceed in a single group
during the entire time they remain on SH 100 or the Queen Isabella Causeway.
The event sponsor shall be required to immediately discontinue the
participation in the event of any participant not within the single group.
   (B)   This requirement may be waived by the Chief of Police at his or her
discretion.
   (C)   The event sponsor shall furnish, at his or her expense, a vehicle or
vehicles capable of removing any discontinued participant from the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.08 USE OF LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   All traffic control by law enforcement within the corporate limits of the
city shall be provided by the Port Isabel Police Department, unless express
permission has been given by the Chief of Police for the use of another law
enforcement agency.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.09 PLACEMENT OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The placement of traffic control devices related to the event within the
corporate limits of the city shall be by the Port Isabel Public Works
Department, unless express permission has been given by the Director of Public
Works.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.10 ACTUAL COST TO BE REIMBURSED.
   The event sponsor shall be liable for the payment of the actual cost of all
city material, equipment, and personnel used in connection with the event,
including, but not limited to, the cost of clean-up following the event. The
city may require the event sponsor to pre-pay the estimated cost of city
materials, equipment, and personnel.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.11 ALL PERMITS SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY AFFECTED JURISDICTIONS.
   All approvals granted by the city shall be subject to the approval of any
other municipality within which the event will also occur, as well as the
approval of the Texas Department of Transportation for any use of the Queen
Isabella Causeway. In the event approval of the event is not granted by any
other municipality or the Texas Department of Transportation, the event permit
shall be invalid, and any fees paid shall be forfeited to the city.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.12 PERMITS SUBJECT TO REVOCATION.
   In the event that an event sponsor fails to comply with the regulations set
forth in this chapter, any ordinance of the city, or any law of the State of
Texas or the United States, the permit shall be revoked.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.13 FEES.
   (A)   Application fee. The application for an event permit for an event
taking place on SH 100 shall be subject to the payment of an application fee of
$100. No application fee will be collected for events on other rights-of-way.
   (B)   Permit fee. The issuance of a permit shall be subject to the payment
of a permit fee as follows:
      (1)   Events on SH 100 lasting less than one hour, $100;
      (2)   Event on SH 100 lasting between one to two hours, $250;
      (3)   Event on SH 100 lasting between two to three hours, $500; and
      (4)   All other events, $50.
   (C)   Additional fees required. All events on SH 100 ending after 10:30 a.m.
shall pay an additional fee of $500.
   (D)   Waivers. The payment of fees shall be waived for the City of Port
Isabel, the Port Isabel Chamber of Commerce, and the Point Isabel ISD.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.14 WAIVERS.
   The City Commission shall have the power to waive any provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 104.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter is a Class C misdemeanor, and upon conviction, is
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 698, passed 4-10-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   SALES OF ALCOHOL
         
111.   CARNIVALS
         
112.   FOOD BUSINESSES
         
113.   HOME OCCUPATIONS
         
114.   PEDDLERS
         
115.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
         
116.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
         
117.   VEHICLES FOR SALE
         
118.   WRECKER SERVICES
         
119.   OIL AND GAS
         
120.   AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: SALES OF ALCOHOL
Section
   
110.01   Fees
   
110.02   Extended hours
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 FEES.
    It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell beer, wine
or mixed beverages within the limits of the city, or operate longer hours,
without the person, firm or corporation having first obtained a license by
paying to the City Secretary, an annual fee as set forth herein, or to engage
in any business for which a permit or license is required by the Alcoholic
Beverage Code and paying to the city the following, which shall not exceed 50%
of the fee charged by Senate Bill 285 (Chapter 278, Acts of the 68th
Legislature, Regular Session, 1983, compiled in the Alcoholic Beverage Code,
Vernons Tex. Civil Statutes), to wit:
Alcoholic Beverage Code Section Fee Charged by City
Alcoholic Beverage Code Section           Fee Charged by City
12.02 Brewer's permit                     $750.00
13.02 Nonresident brewer's permit         $750.00
14.02 Distiller's and rectifier's permit  $750.00
16.02 Winery permit                       $37.50
18.02 Wine bottler's permit               $112.50
19.02 Wholesaler's permit                 $937.50
20.02 General Class B wholesaler's permit $150.00
21.02 Local Class B wholesaler's permit   $37.50
22.02 Package store permit                $150.00
23.02 Local distributor's permit          $50.00
24.02 Wine only package store permit      $37.50
25.02 Wine and beer retailer's permit     $87.50
 
Alcoholic Beverage Code Section Fee Charged by City
Alcoholic Beverage Code Section            Fee Charged by City
26.02 Wine and beer retailer's off-premise $30.00
      permit
      Mixed beverage permit (to be charged
28.02 after third year following issuance  $375.00
      of permit)
31.02 Caterer's permit                     $250.00
37.02 Nonresident seller's permit          $75.00
46.02 Bonded warehouse permit              $75.00
62.02 (a)(1) Licensed manufacturing        $375.00
      establishment permit (First)
      (2) Second establishment             $750.00
      (3) Third, fourth and fifth          $2,137.50 for each establishment
      establishments
      (4) Each establishment in excess of  $4,200.00 each
      five
64.02 General distributor's license        $150.00
65.02 Local distributor's license          $37.50
66.02 Branch distributor's license         $37.50 per year or fraction of a
                                           year
67.02 Importer's license                   $10.00 per year or fraction of a
                                           year
69.02 Retail dealer's on-premise license   $75.00
70.02 Retail dealer's on-premise late      $125.00
      hours license
71.02 Retail dealer's off-premise license  $30.00
 
(Ord. 358A, passed 1-14-1985; Ord. 358B, passed 6-25-1985; Ord. 474, passed 12-
9-1986) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 EXTENDED HOURS.
   The sale of mixed beverages and the offer to sell them by the holder of a
mixed beverages late hours permit and the sale, offer to sell and delivery of
beer or wine by a holder of a retail dealer's on-premises late hours service is
approved to allow the above activities to occur between midnight and 2:00 a.m.
on any day.
(Ord. 481, passed 1-27-1986)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Extended hours. Any person, firm or corporation violating any
provision of §
110.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $200 for each violation hereof and each day
the violation shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 481, passed 1-27-1986)
CHAPTER 111: CARNIVALS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Application requirements
   
111.03   Applicant's responsibility
   
111.04   Indemnification
   
111.05   Action on application
   
111.06   Application and permit fees
   
111.07   Deposit for cleaning and other costs
   
111.08   Issuance of permits
   
111.09   Permit term
   
111.10   Sanitary facilities
   
111.11   Electrical inspection
   
111.12   Time, place and manner of operation
   
111.13   Regulations
   
111.14   Security
   
111.15   Modification or revocation of permit
   
111.16   Violation of law
   
111.17   Exceptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Carnival Indemnity Agreement
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARNIVAL. Includes a carnival, circus, tent show, amusement ride, traveling
show, side show, festival and fair.
   PERMITTED LOCATION. The site designated in the application for the location
of the carnival which has been granted a permit for operation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, company, venture,
association, trust, estate foundation, institution, organization, group,
governmental subdivision or agency, or any other entity recognized by law as
the subject of rights and duties whether operated for profit or not for profit.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.02 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every person (hereinafter referred to as applicant) desiring to
conduct or operate a carnival within the city limits shall make application
(typewritten) for a permit to the City Secretary and file the same with the
City Secretary at least two weeks prior to the time when it is desired to
conduct or operate the carnival. The application shall give the name and
permanent address of the owner of the carnival and, if the carnival is not
owned by an individual, the application shall fully identify the owners and
shall also show the name of the manager or other officer in charge of the
carnival. In every event, the application shall identify the on-site person in
active charge and control of conducting and operating the carnival. The
application shall show the proposed location and a letter from the owner or
owners of the location authorizing the use of the land shall be submitted with
the application. If the proposed location is not readily identifiable by lot
and block number, a plat of the location shall be submitted with the letter.
The application shall further give a list of each and every show, ride, booth
and other business and attraction operated in connection with the carnival
listing them by name and with a description of each show or attraction and, if
any are not owned by applicant, a complete identification of the owner shall be
submitted, together with proof of insurance as required herein.
   (B)   If the applicant intends to operate amusement rides as that term is
defined in Tex. Insurance Code Article 21.60, § 2(1), the applicant shall also
submit with the application a current certificate for each amusement ride
stating that the insurance required by Tex. Insurance Code Article 21.60, § 4
(a)(2), is in effect and will be in effect throughout the period during which
the amusement rides will be operated in the city. In addition, the applicant
shall submit with the application a current inspection certificate as required
by Tex. Insurance Code Article 21.60, § 4(a)(1) for each amusement ride.
   (C)   In addition to the insurance required herein for carnivals with
amusement rides, the applicant shall submit with his or her application proof
of insurance underwritten by an insurance company authorized to do business in
the state in an amount of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence which insures
the applicant, and all other persons and activities operated in connection,
with the carnival, against liability for injury to persons or damage to
property arising out of operation of the carnival.
   (D)   If the applicant intends to use animals as part of the carnival the
applicant shall submit with his or her application proof of a current license
issued by the State Board of Health pursuant to Tex. Health and Safety Code
Chapter 824 et seq., or a license issued pursuant to 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq.
During the operation of the carnival, the applicant shall make all animals,
animal housing and display areas available for inspection by the City Animal
Control Officer and his or her agents.
   (E)   The applicant, and every other person if not an employee of applicant,
who intends to sell food or drink at the permitted location shall apply for a
mobile food unit permit from the City Health Inspector and no food or drink may
be sold at the permitted location without a permit having been issued and the
appropriate fee for the permit having been paid. During the operation of the
carnival, the applicant shall make the entire carnival premises available for
inspection by the City Health Inspector at all times and, upon request, shall
provide unrestricted access to documentation relating to food and drinks sold
at the carnival to the City Health Inspector.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.03 APPLICANT'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The applicant shall be responsible for and civilly liable for every wrongful
or tortious act or omission of every person acting on behalf of the carnival or
conducting business at the permitted location as if the person were an employee
of applicant.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.04 INDEMNIFICATION.
   Prior to being granted a permit, the applicant shall agree and sign a
written agreement with the city provided with the application indemnifying and
holding harmless the city from any claims of injury to persons or damage to
property and further shall acknowledge that the applicant has completely read
and understands this chapter and all existing carnival regulations and agrees
to be bound by their terms.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.05 ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   After the application is submitted to the City Secretary, the City Secretary
shall refer the same to the City Manager and Police Chief for action and, if
the City Manager and Police Chief are convinced from the evidence submitted and
any other research they may conduct that the applicant for the carnival has met
the requirements of this chapter, the City Manager and Police Chief may approve
the application.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.06 APPLICATION AND PERMIT FEES.
   Upon submission of the application to the City Secretary, the applicant
shall tender a nonrefundable application processing fee in the amount of $100.
Upon approval of the application and prior to issuance of the permit, the
applicant shall tender a nonrefundable permit fee in the amount of $50 per day
of permitted activity.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.07 DEPOSIT FOR CLEANING AND OTHER COSTS.
   To provide for the costs of necessary cleaning of nearby city property, the
permitted location and property surrounding or nearby the permitted location
after the conclusion of the carnival, a deposit in addition to the above permit
fees shall also be required in the amount of $500. After inspection and
approval of these areas at the conclusion of the carnival by a person
designated by the City Manager, the deposit shall be refunded. If the applicant
has failed to clean the permitted location, surrounding properties, and all
nearby city property to a satisfactory condition, this deposit shall be used to
reimburse the city for the costs of cleaning these properties. If the cost of
cleaning is less than $500, the unused portion of the deposit may be refunded.
In addition to cleaning, the deposit shall also be applied by the city for any
other costs or payments required by this chapter or regulations enacted
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.08 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Upon approval of the application for a permit by the City Manager and Police
Chief and payment of the fees, deposit and meeting all other requirements, the
City Secretary shall issue a permit to the applicant to operate the carnival in
the city.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.09 PERMIT TERM.
   The permit issued shall allow one appearance in the city and shall be good
only for as many days as it operates continuously in the city but in no event
more than ten consecutive days. A new permit is required each time the carnival
returns to the city.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.10 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   The carnival shall furnish a sufficient number of toilet facilities for all
patrons and employees, as determined by the Health Inspector. The toilet
facilities shall be regularly cleaned and acceptable for use by a person of
ordinary sensibilities.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.11 ELECTRICAL INSPECTION.
   Prior to the initiation of operation of the carnival, the electrical
connections, wiring and outlets shall be inspected by a licensed electrician
approved by the City Building Official to minimize danger of electrocution,
fire, short circuit or any other electrical problem. The applicant shall be
responsible for retaining the services of the licensed electrician and for
paying the licensed electrician for the inspection.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.12 TIME, PLACE AND MANNER OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The carnival shall be allowed to operate between 10:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. No generators shall be allowed to operate after 10:30 p.m. and no music or
other noise shall be created from the permitted location after 10:30 p.m.
   (B)   No application for a carnival shall be approved nor permitted if the
nearest point of the proposed location is within 300 feet of a school, house of
worship, funeral home, nursing home or residence.
   (C)   No employee of the carnival or other person shall reside overnight on
the permitted location unless accommodations suitable for overnight living,
such as recreational vehicles or trailers, are provided. No camping, lodging in
tents or sleeping in vehicles shall be allowed.
   (D)   The permitted location and all surrounding property shall be cleaned
for litter twice daily.
   (E)   No application for a carnival shall be approved nor permitted unless
the proposed location shall have adequate off-street parking nor if the
proposed location shall cause traffic congestion or a potential traffic hazard.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999) Penalty, see §
111.12
§ 111.13 REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager, with the Police Chief, Building Official, Health
Inspector, Animal Control Officer and City Secretary, shall have authority to
promulgate and amend regulations concerning all aspects of carnival activities
not inconsistent with this chapter.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.14 SECURITY.
   The applicant shall provide licensed peace officers or licensed security
officers for the protection of patrons and their property and for the
protection of persons residing or working nearby and nearby property. Security
officers shall be city police officers or shall be approved by the Police
Chief. At least one officer shall be required from opening until 10:30 p.m. or
until 30 minutes after closing if earlier than 10:00 p.m. Depending upon the
size and location of the carnival, the Chief of Police may require up to three
officers to be present. In the event of any reported act of violence or threat
to a patron or person residing or working near the permitted location, or of
theft of, damage to or trespass upon a patron's property or property located
near the permitted location, the Police Chief may require the applicant to
provide additional security officers not to exceed four during daylight hours
and eight after sunset.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.15 MODIFICATION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   In the event of:
      (1)   Any threat, act of violence or injury to a patron or other person
on or nearby the permitted location;
      (2)   Any theft of, damage to or trespass upon any patron's or other
person's property located on or nearby the permitted location; or
      (3)   Any false, misleading, deceptive, act or practice conducted upon a
patron by any person associated with the carnival activities, the applicant
shall immediately report the same to the Police Chief.
   (B)   After investigation by the Police Chief of any event described in
division (A) above, the Police Chief with the concurrence of the City Manager
may amend the applicant's permit to modify or exclude one or more of the
carnival activities, including the right to exclude certain persons associated
with the carnival operation from the permitted location.
   (C)   In the event the applicant fails or refuses to comply with the
modification or exclusion of one or more carnival activities as allowed in
division (B) above, the City Manager may revoke the applicant's permit.
   (D)   In the event any carnival activity or any person employed by or
associated with the carnival violates the provisions of this chapter or the
city regulations for carnivals, the City Manager may revoke the applicant's
permit.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.16 VIOLATION OF LAW.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For any person to operate a carnival without first obtaining a permit
from the city;
   (B)   For any applicant to make a false or misleading statement in the
application for a permit;
   (C)   For any applicant to submit false or misleading materials required to
be submitted with the application; and
   (D)   For any applicant to fail to abide by the terms of this chapter or any
city regulation for carnivals.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to street fairs, parades or bazaars, composed
in whole or in part of local residents for charitable and benevolent purposes
and without profit. None of the requirements, provisions or fees of this
chapter may be waived by the City Commission or the City Manager.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
111.16 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished
by a fine not to exceed $2,000.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
APPENDIX A: CARNIVAL INDEMNITY AGREEMENT
   The City of Port Isabel, Texas, its officers, agents, and employees
(hereinafter collectively called "City") shall not be liable or responsible
for, and shall be saved and held harmless by                       (hereinafter
called "Applicant") from and against any and all suits, actions, losses,
damages, claims, or liability of any character, type, or description, including
all expenses of litigation, court costs, and attorney's fees for injury or
death to any person, or injury to any property, received or sustained by any
person or persons or property, arising out of, or occasioned by, directly or
indirectly, the operation of Applicant's carnival in the City of Port Isabel,
including claims and damages arising in part from the negligence of city.
   It is the expressed intent of the parties to this Agreement that the
indemnity provided for in this agreement is an indemnity extended by Applicant
to indemnify and protect city from the consequences of city's own negligence,
however, that the indemnity provided for herein shall apply only when the
negligent act of the city is a contributory cause of the resultant injury,
death, or damage, and shall have no application when the negligent act of the
city is the sole cause of the resultant injury, death, or damage, unmixed with
the legal fault of Applicant or another person or entity.
   Applicant herein further acknowledges he or she has read Ordinance 475C, and
the current regulations for carnivals, fully understands their terms and agrees
to obey and be bound by their terms and conditions.
(Ord. 475C, passed 2-23-1999)
CHAPTER 112: FOOD BUSINESSES
Section
Mobile Food Unit Operations
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Mobile food units prohibited
   
112.03   Civil enforcement
Retail Food Stores and Food Service Establishments
   
112.15   Definitions
   
112.16   Adoption of state rules
   
112.17   Permit required; roadside food vending prohibited
   
112.18   Application for permit
   
112.19   Inspection by Health Department and records access
   
112.20   Issuance of permit
   
112.21   Permit fees
   
112.22   Record of permit holders and reports
   
112.23   Term and renewal of permit
   
112.24   Display of permit
   
112.25   Inspection sheets to be kept
   
112.26   Suspension or revocation of permit; hearing
   
112.27   Correction of violations after inspection
   
112.28   Examination and condemnation of food and hold order
   
112.29   Procedure when infection suspected
   
112.30   Submission of plans
   
112.31   Notification, reporting and consumer notice requirements
   
112.32   Civil enforcement
   
112.33   Exceptions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
MOBILE FOOD UNIT OPERATIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Port Isabel, Texas.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked or processed edible substance, ice, beverage or
ingredient used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human
consumption.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place open to the general public or where,
for distinct payment, food or drink is prepared or served for human
consumption, whether served and consumed on the premises or off the premises.
The term includes mobile food units.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A wheeled or vehicle mounted food service establishment
designed to be readily moveable.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, company, venture,
association, trust, estate, foundation, institution, organization, group,
governmental subdivision or agency and any other entity recognized by law as
the subject of rights and duties whether operated for profit or not for profit.
(Ord. 592A, passed 3-26-2002)
§ 112.02 MOBILE FOOD UNITS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mobile food unit within the
city. Any person currently operating a mobile food unit with a valid food
service establishment permit and a valid mobile food unit license shall be
allowed to continue in operation until the expiration date of the mobile food
unit license.
(Ord. 592A, passed 3-26-2002) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to the criminal enforcement provided herein, the City Attorney
or his or her designee may enforce the provisions of this subchapter through
any and all civil remedies available. In that event, persons, against whom
enforcement is sought and against whom civil remedies are granted, shall be
jointly and severally liable for all damages, court costs, attorney's fees and
all costs and expenses reasonably related to the civil enforcement action.
(Ord. 592A, passed 3-26-2002)
RETAIL FOOD STORES AND FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 112.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person seeking a permit to operate a retail food store or
food service establishment and every person to whom a permit has been issued.
   CITY. The City of Port Isabel, Texas.
   EMPLOYEE. Any individual working in a food service establishment or retail
food store, whether paid or unpaid, full-time or part-time, on a temporary or
permanent basis, or an independent contractor.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked or processed edible substance, ice, beverage or
ingredient used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human
consumption.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place open to the general public or where,
for distinct payment, food or drink is prepared or served for human
consumption, whether served and consumed on the premises or off the premises.
The term includes temporary food service establishments and mobile food units.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Health Department of the city.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The person designated by the City Manager to enforce this
subchapter and state law relating to food service establishments and retail
food stores.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A wheeled or vehicle mounted food service establishment
designed to be readily moveable. In addition to the requirements of this
subchapter, MOBILE FOOD UNITS shall comply with additional ordinance
requirements of the city.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, venture, association, trust,
estate, foundation, institution, organization, group, governmental subdivision
or agency, and any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and
duties whether operated for profit or not for profit.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. The individual present in a food service establishment or
retail food store who is the apparent manager or supervisor of the food service
establishment or retail food store at the time of inspection or delivery of
notice. If no individual is the apparent supervisor, then any employee present
is the PERSON IN CHARGE.
   RETAIL FOOD STORE. Any establishment where the only food offered for sale to
ultimate consumers is that which is intended for off-premises consumption.
   ROADSIDE FOOD VENDORS. A person who operates a mobile food store from a
temporary location adjacent to a public roadway or highway. A ROADSIDE FOOD
VENDOR is classified herein as a retail food store.
   TEMPORARY FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. A food service establishment that
operates at a fixed location for a period of time of not more than 14
consecutive days in conjunction with an event or celebration.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.16 ADOPTION OF STATE RULES.
   The laws of the state and the Rules of the State Department of Health
governing food service sanitation and retail food store sanitation, as now
existing and as may be amended or changed hereafter, are hereby adopted and
made a part of this subchapter as if fully set out herein, and the provisions
thereof shall govern all matters covered herein within the city. The provisions
of this subchapter are in addition to state laws and rules governing food
service sanitation and retail food store sanitation.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.17 PERMIT REQUIRED; ROADSIDE FOOD VENDING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food service
establishment or retail food store within the city without a valid permit
issued to him or her by the Health Department of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a roadside food
vendor within the city.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999; Ord. 590A, passed 3-26-2002) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.18 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person desiring to operate a food service establishment or retail food
store within the city shall make a written application for the permit on forms
to be provided by the City Health Department. The application shall, at a
minimum, include the following information:
   (A)   The applicant's full name, office address and telephone number,
including the address and telephone number of the home office, if any, and
whether the applicant is an individual, partnership, corporation or other
entity; and, if other than an individual, sufficient information to fully
identify the ownership of the applicant;
   (B)   The location and type of food service establishment or retail food
store;
   (C)   If the application is for a temporary food service establishment, it
shall include the inclusive dates of the proposed operation of the
establishment;
   (D)   A copy of the applicant's sales tax permit showing its tax location in
the city;
   (E)   A statement by the applicant that he or she is not delinquent upon any
account owed to the city or otherwise indebted to city, the accounts and
indebtedness including, but not limited to, unpaid taxes, garbage collection
fees, assessments, fines, and permit and license fees; and
   (F)   The signature of the applicant or applicants.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.19 INSPECTION BY HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND RECORDS ACCESS.
   Upon receipt of the application, the Health Department shall make an
inspection of the food service establishment or retail food store to determine
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and state law. The Health
Department may make inspections thereafter as it shall deem necessary to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and state law. The Health
Department shall be permitted to examine the records of the establishment or
store to obtain information pertaining to food and supplies as well as persons
employed.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.20 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   When inspection by the Health Department reveals that the applicable
requirements of this subchapter and state law have been met, including the
payment of a permit fee as required, and finds that the applicant is not
delinquent in any amount due to the city, a permit shall be issued to the
applicant by the Health Department.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.21 PERMIT FEES.
   The annual permit fee to be paid by each applicant shall be as follows:
 
For each establishment having one and not more than 2 employees, annually  $25
For each establishment having at least 2 but not more than 5 employees,    $50
annually
For each establishment having at least 6 but not more than 10 employees,   $100
annually
For each establishment having more than 10 but not more than 20 employees, $200
annually
For each establishment having more than 20 but not more than 30 employees, $300
annually
For each establishment having more than 30 employees, annually             $400
For each temporary food establishment, a 14 day fee                        $100
 
 
For each mobile food unit, an annual fee     $100
For each roadside food vendor, an annual fee $100
 
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.22 RECORD OF PERMIT HOLDERS AND REPORTS.
   Files shall be kept by the Health Department of the city of all
establishments who hold a permit under this subchapter. The file shall include
the permit application, permit copy or receipt, all inspection reports, all
other reports and all other documents related to the operation and requirements
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.23 TERM AND RENEWAL OF PERMIT.
   A permit required by this subchapter shall be valid for a period of one year
from the date of issuance thereof, unless the same is sooner revoked or
suspended as herein provided, or unless the holder of the permit shall change
the location of his or her place of business or sells or otherwise disposes of
the business or materially changes the character of the business. Upon the
expiration of any permit and within seven days thereafter, a person conducting
or operating the business or vehicle shall apply for and secure renewal thereof
in the same manner as herein provided.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.24 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   Each permit issued under this subchapter shall at all times be kept publicly
displayed in a conspicuous place in or about the place of business, premises or
vehicle.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.25 INSPECTION SHEETS TO BE KEPT.
   Inspection sheets prepared by the City Health Officer on prior inspections
must be kept on the premises to be produced upon request of the Health Officer.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.26 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT; HEARING.
   (A)   The Health Officer or, in his or her absence his or her designee in
consultation with the City Manager, may, without prior notice or hearing,
suspend any permit to operate a food service establishment or retail food store
if the operation of the food service establishment or retail food store
constitutes a substantial and imminent hazard to public health. Suspension is
effective immediately upon written notification and all food service operations
shall immediately cease. Whenever a permit is suspended in accordance with this
division, a hearing shall be held before the City Commission as soon as
possible.
   (B)   Whenever a permit is suspended, except in the case of a substantial
and imminent hazard to public health as provided for in division (A) above of
this section, the applicant or person in charge shall be notified in writing
that the permit will be suspended on a specified date and that an opportunity
for hearing by the City Commission will be provided if a written request for a
hearing is filed with the Health Officer by the applicant within five days. All
food service operations shall cease upon the date specified in the notice
pending the hearing. If no request for hearing is filed within five days, the
suspension is sustained. The Health Officer may terminate the suspension at any
time if reasons for the suspension no longer exist.
   (C)   The Health Officer, after providing opportunity for a hearing by the
City Commission, may revoke a permit for serious violation or repeated
violation of any of the requirements of this subchapter or for interference
with the Health Department in the performance of its duties. Prior to
revocation, the Health Officer shall notify the applicant or person in charge,
in writing, of the reasons for which the permit is subject to revocation and
the permit may be revoked at the end of five days following service of the
notice. If the City Commission determines after the hearing that revocation is
warranted or if a written request for a hearing is not filed with the Health
Officer by the applicant within the five-day period, the revocation is
sustained.
   (D)   A notice provided for in this section is properly served when it is
delivered in person to the applicant or the person in charge of the permitted
business, premises or vehicle or when it is sent by registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the applicant. A
copy of the notice shall be filed in the records of the Health Department.
   (E)   The hearings provided for in divisions (A), (B) and (C) above of this
section shall be conducted at a time and place designated in the written
notice. Based upon recorded evidence of the hearings, the City Commission shall
make final findings and shall sustain, modify or rescind any notice or order
considered in the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be
furnished to the applicant by the City Commission.
   (F)   The City Commission may delegate the responsibility and authority for
the hearings provided in this section to a panel, consisting of five adult
residents of the county. The selection and appointment of this alternate panel
may be made by the City Commission or the City Commission may delegate the
selection and appointment to the City Manager.
   (G)   Whenever a revocation of a permit has become final the applicant with
a revoked permit may make written application for a new permit.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.27 CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS AFTER INSPECTION.
   When a food service establishment or retail food store upon inspection
receives a rating score of less than 70, the food service establishment or
retail food store shall initiate corrective action on all identified violations
within 24 hours and shall complete them within 72 hours unless a written
extension is given by the Health Officer. One or more reinspections will be
conducted at reasonable time intervals to verify corrections. In the case of
mobile food units and temporary food service establishments all violations
shall be corrected within 24 hours. If violations are not corrected within 24
hours, the establishment or unit shall immediately cease food service
operations until authorized to resume by the Health Department.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.28 EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF FOOD AND HOLD ORDER.
   Food may be examined or sampled by the Health Department as often as
necessary for enforcement of this subchapter. The Health Department may, upon
written notice to the applicant or person in charge, specifying with the
particular reasons therefor, place a hold order on any food which it believes
is adulterated or mis-branded in accordance with the provisions of Tex. Health
and Safety Code §§ 431.001 through 438.001 and all rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder. The Health Department shall tag, label or otherwise
identify any food subject to the hold order. No food subject to a hold order
shall be used, served or moved from the establishment. The Health Department
shall permit storage of food under conditions specified in the hold order,
unless storage is not possible without risk to public health, in which case
immediate destruction shall be ordered and accomplished. The hold order shall
state that a request for hearing may be filed within five days and that if no
hearing is requested the food shall be destroyed. A hearing shall be held if so
requested, and on the basis of the evidence produced at the hearing the hold
order may be vacated, or the applicant or person in charge of the food may be
directed by written order to denature or destroy the food or to bring it into
compliance with the provisions of the state rules on food service sanitation
and the state rules on retail food store sanitation.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.29 PROCEDURE WHEN INFECTION SUSPECTED.
   When the Health Department has reasonable cause to suspect the possibility
of disease transmission from any food service establishment or retail food
store employee, it may secure medical history of the suspected employee or make
any other investigation as may be indicated and shall take appropriate action.
The Health Department may take any or all of the following measures:
   (A)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all food service
establishments and retail food stores;
   (B)   The immediate closing of the food service establishment or retail food
store concerned until, in the opinion of the Health Department, no further
danger of disease outbreak exists;
   (C)   Restriction of the employee's services to some area of the
establishment or store where there would be no danger of transmitting disease;
and
   (D)   Require adequate medical and laboratory examination of the employee
and of other employees.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.30 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   Whenever a food service establishment or retail food store is constructed or
extensively remodeled and whenever an existing structure is converted to use as
a food service establishment, properly prepared plans and specifications for
the construction, remodeling or conversion shall be submitted to the Health
Department for review and approval before a building permit for the
construction, remodeling or conversion may be issued and before construction,
remodeling or conversion is begun. The plans and specifications shall indicate
the proposed layout, arrangement, mechanical plans, construction materials of
work areas, plumbing fixtures, and the type and model of proposed fixed
equipment and facilities. The Health Department shall approve the plans and
specifications if they meet the requirements of state rules on food service
sanitation and the state rules on retail food store sanitation. No food service
establishment shall be constructed, extensively remodeled or converted except
in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Health Department.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.31 NOTIFICATION, REPORTING AND CONSUMER NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every food service establishment and retail food store issued a permit
under this subchapter shall be obligated to notify the Health Officer of every
instance of a report or complaint of contaminated food or of illness caused by
or associated with food prepared by, served by or sold by the establishment or
store or otherwise associated with the establishment's or store's business
premises. The notification shall be by telephonic or verbal communication
immediately (within one hour) after the establishment's or store's first
knowledge of the report or complaint of illness.
   (B)   Following the telephonic or verbal notification, the establishment or
store shall submit a written report on a form provided by the Health Department
which must be received by the Health Department within three days of the
establishment's or store's first knowledge of the report or complaint of
contaminated food or of illness. In the case of illness, the report shall fully
identify the person complaining of illness, the date and time of illness, the
food or drink or other suspected cause of illness, type of illness, the extent
of medical attention needed, an explanation of the establishment's or store's
investigation into the allegation, and what remedial steps, if any, have been
or will be taken. In the case of contamination, the report shall fully identify
the person complaining of the contamination, the date, time and place of
discovery of the contamination, the type of food or drink contaminated, the
type of contamination, the cause of contamination, an explanation of the
establishment's or store's investigation into the allegation, and what remedial
steps, if any, have been or will be taken. In case of illness and
contamination, the establishment and store shall preserve any evidence for the
Health Officer.
   (C)   Every food service establishment and retail food store holding a
permit under this subchapter shall display a consumer notice prepared by the
Health Department summarizing the requirements of this section. The notice
shall be no less than eight inches by ten inches in size and shall at all times
be kept publicly displayed in a conspicuous place near the point of sale of the
place of business, premises or vehicle. Establishments with drive through
windows shall display the notice near the service window in addition to any
other point of sale within the establishment.
   (D)   Every employee shall be made aware by the applicant of the provisions
of this section. The applicant, person in charge and manager are all
responsible for compliance with the notification, reporting and consumer notice
display requirement. A failure to timely notify, report or display the consumer
notice under this section shall be considered a serious violation under §
112.26(C) herein and shall constitute grounds for suspension or revocation of
permit.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.32 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to the criminal enforcement and other remedial provisions
provided herein, the City Attorney or his or her designee may enforce the
provisions of this subchapter through any and all civil remedies available. In
that event, persons, against whom enforcement is sought and against whom civil
remedies are granted, shall be jointly and severally liable for all damages,
court costs, attorney's fees and all costs and expenses reasonably related to
the civil enforcement action.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.33 EXCEPTIONS.
   A permit shall not be required under this subchapter for food served at
local events such as festivals, cook-offs and church bazaars, composed in whole
or in part by local residents for charitable or civic purposes, so long as such
events do not occur more than twice a year per entity.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Mobile food unit operations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mobile food unit
within the city.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (A) above herein
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed $2,000.
      (3)   This is a strict liability offense for which no mens rea is
required for prosecution.
   (B)   Retail food stores and food service establishments.
      (1)   Any person who violates a provision of §§
112.15 through
112.33 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished
by a fine not to exceed $2,000.
      (2)   Violations of the provisions of §§
112.15 through
112.33 are strict liability offenses for which no mens rea is required for
prosecution.
(Ord. 590, passed 2-9-1999; Ord. 590A, passed 3-26-2002; Ord. 592A, passed 3-
26-2002)
CHAPTER 113: HOME OCCUPATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Permit required
   
113.03   Occupations listed
   
113.04   Conformity to standards
   
113.05   Inspections
   
113.06   Application for permits
   
113.07   Conditional use permits
   
113.08   General provisions
   
113.09   Enforcement
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any business or commercial activity that is conducted or
petitioned to be conducted from property that is zoned for residential use.
   HOME OCCUPATION CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit authorized by the City
Commission only after a public hearing by the Zoning Commission.
   HOME OCCUPATION PERMIT. A permit issued for home occupation that is
authorized by this chapter without hearing.
(Ord. 576, passed 5-27-1997)
§ 113.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No home occupation shall be permitted without the prior issuance of a home
occupation permit or conditional use permit.
(Ord. 576, passed 5-27-1997) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 OCCUPATIONS LISTED.
   A home occupation permit for the following home occupations shall be issued
by the Building Official upon application to the Building Code Enforcement
Department and payment of the permit fee, without hearing, provided that the
home occupation is conducted solely and singly by the applicant, who shall
reside on the premises, does not constitute a significant impact upon the
neighborhood, and conforms to all the rules and regulations of §
113.04:
   (A)   Dressmaking, sewing and tailoring;
   (B)   Painting, sculpturing or writing;
   (C)   Telephone answering;
   (D)   Home crafts, such as model making, rug weaving, lapidary work and
cabinet making;
   (E)   Tutoring, limited to one student at a time;
   (F)   Home cooking and preserving;
   (G)   Computer programming; and
   (H)   Secretarial service.
(Ord. 576, passed 5-27-1997)
§ 113.04 CONFORMITY TO STANDARDS.
   All home occupations, whether authorized by permit or conditional use
permit, shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Permitted home occupations shall not be conducted in any building on
the premises other than the building which is used by the occupant as the
private dwelling; and, furthermore, that not more than one room may be used for
the purpose.
   (B)   No interior or exterior business sign shall be permitted unless
authorized by the sign regulations for residential districts.
   (C)   There shall be no exterior garage storage of business equipment,
materials, merchandise, inventory or heavy equipment.
   (D)   The set aside for home occupations shall not exceed 20% of the total
floor area of the residence.
   (E)   Permitted home occupations shall not include the employment of any
persons not residing on the premises in the performance of the occupation.
   (F)   The use of mechanical equipment, vehicle or boat repair, body work or
any automotive service other than is usual for purely domestic or hobby
purposes is prohibited.
   (G)   Merchandise shall not be displayed or offered for sale either within
or outside of the residence.
   (H)   The operation of any wholesale or retail business, unless it is
conducted entirely by mail, and does not involve the sale, shipment or delivery
of merchandise on the premises, is prohibited.
   (I)   Any manufacturing business or activity which produces noxious matter
or perceptible noise beyond the lot line is prohibited.
   (J)   Trucks shall not operate out of residential districts.
   (K)   Conditional use permits shall not be granted when it appears to the
City Commission that the proposed home occupations will constitute a fire
hazard to neighboring residences, will adversely affect neighboring property
values, or will constitute a nuisance or otherwise be detrimental to the
neighbors because of excessive traffic, excessive noise, odors or other
circumstances.
   (L)   In order to guarantee that a home occupation, once authorized, will
not become a nuisance to the neighbors or otherwise violate these guidelines,
the Zoning Commission may recommend and the City Commission may impose
reasonable conditions necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
   (M)   An applicant for permit or conditional use permit must reside at the
location of the proposed home occupation.
   (N)   Garage sales are permitted without special permit provided they meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Sales are no longer than three days;
      (2)   Sales are held no more than twice yearly;
      (3)   Sales are conducted on the owner's property. Multiple family sales
are permitted if they are held on the property of one of the participants;
      (4)   No goods purchased for resale may be offered for sale;
      (5)   No consignment goods may be offered for sale.
      (6)   Directional signs may be placed on the street right-of-way;
      (7)   All directional and advertising signs shall be freestanding and
removed after completion of the sale;
      (8)   All directional and advertising signs placed on private property
shall have the owners' permission; and
      (9)   No directional or advertising signs may be larger than two feet by
three feet.
(Ord. 576, passed 5-27-1997)
§ 113.05 INSPECTIONS.
   There may be one annual inspection for each year by the Chief Building
Official covered by a permit or conditional use permit. In addition, the Chief
Building Official or his or her designee, shall have the right at any
reasonable time, upon reasonable request, to enter and inspect the premises
covered by the permit for safety and compliance purposes.
(Ord. 576, passed 5-27-1997)
§ 113.06 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   The annual fee for permits and conditional use permits issued under
this section shall be $25 per year.
   (B)   Permits and conditional use permits shall expire one year from the
date granted and may be renewed without additional hearings, subject to the
provisions of this section, by completing the renewal form described by the
Building Code Enforcement Department and paying the annual permit fee. Failure
to timely apply for renewal, and/or failure to pay for the annual permit or
conditional use permit, shall be grounds for revocation of a permit or a
conditional use permit.
(Ord. 576, passed 5-27-1997)
§ 113.07 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Conditional use permits granted by this section shall be temporary in
nature and shall be granted to a designated person who resides at a residential
address. They are not transferable from person to person or from address to
address.
   (B)   Applications for home occupation conditional use permits shall be
filed with the Building Department, together with the filing fee of $200. The
application shall be forwarded to the Zoning Commission for a public hearing.
All hearings shall be at public meetings of the Zoning Commission. Legal notice
of all hearings shall be given as required for petitions for rezoning,
variances and other conditional uses. Upon approval at its hearing, the Zoning
Commission shall make findings of fact and recommendations to the City
Commission.
(Ord. 576, passed 5-27-1997)
§ 113.08 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Should a home occupation permit holder or conditional use permit
holder die or move to a new location, the existing permit shall be
automatically terminated, except that, in the case of death, should a surviving
spouse or child residing at the same address desire to continue the home
occupation, written notice to that effect shall be given to the Building
Department, and the City Commission may authorize continuation of that permit
without further hearing.
   (B)   Permits and conditional use permits, once granted, may be revoked by
the City Commission for cause after hearing before the City Commission.
Complaints seeking the revocation of the permit shall be filed with the
Building Department and may be initiated by the Zoning Commission or any three
residents of the block (both sides where the home occupation is being
conducted). Publication and notice requirements shall be the same as for home
occupation conditional use permit application hearings.
   (C)   All business being conducted at property zones for residential use on
the effective date of this chapter shall have 30 days thereafter to apply for
the necessary permit or conditional use permit.
   (D)   Persons who were conducting a business from property zoned for
residential use on the effective date of this chapter must make application
under §
113.06 but may continue to conduct the business pending final determination of
their application. Should the City Commission deny the petition for conditional
use permit, all persons shall immediately cease their business activities from
the residential premises.
(Ord. 576, passed 5-27-1997)
§ 113.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Code Enforcement Officer to enforce
this chapter. Appeal from the decision of the Building Office may be made to
the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 576, passed 5-27-1997)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $100 for each
offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 576, passed 5-27-1997)
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS
Section
   
114.01   Conditions for peddling and vending of wares
   
114.02   Public rights-of-way
   
114.03   Leaflets
   
114.04   Vacant property prohibition
   
114.05   Exemptions
   
114.06   Fee
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 CONDITIONS FOR PEDDLING AND VENDING OF WARES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set up outdoor display facilities for
merchandise of any nature upon any property within the city, unless the same
owner, operator or concessionaire is also the owner lessee or tenant of the
permanent structure located on the same property and in full compliance with
the zoning and building code of the city. It shall be the duty of the person to
immediately move the temporary display facilities into the permanent structure
anytime they have been advised there is the possibility of high winds or other
dangerous weather conditions that could cause the blowing or moving of the
structure to exist unless the same can be immediately housed within a permanent
structure.
(Ord. 552, passed 8-9-1994) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct any type of solicitation or
commercial activity within the public rights-of-way of the city, unless
otherwise explicitly provided for and regulated by city ordinance. It shall be
unlawful to place leaflets, handouts, bills or other devices upon cars located
in the public right-of-ways without the owner's permission. Charitable
solicitation in the public rights-of-way may be exempted from this section by
the City Commission upon application therefor on a case-by-case basis. All
charitable solicitation requests must not be disruptive to pedestrian or
vehicular traffic and must be conducted in a manner which is neither offensive
to persons nor interferes with the business of owners or occupants of property
near the right-of-way.
(Ord. 552, passed 8-9-1994; Ord. 552A, passed 3-9-1999) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 LEAFLETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to conduct any type of
solicitation or commercial activity within the public rights-of-way of the city
and or place leaflets, handouts, bills or other devices upon cars without the
owner's permission or in a manner that the same will blow from the car and
constitute litter within the town. Charitable solicitations may be exempted by
the City Commissioners from this section upon application thereof and proof
that the same will not be disruptive or be conducted in a manner as to offend
people or property.
(Ord. 552, passed 8-9-1994) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 VACANT PROPERTY PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to conduct any business or
commercial activity upon or from unimproved vacant property within the town. No
business or commercial use may be conducted from any property that does not
have permanent improvements, parking, sanitation and meet other requirements of
the building and zoning codes of the city.
(Ord. 552, passed 8-9-1994) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   Charitable (IRS) qualified and municipal organizations are specifically
exempt from this chapter.
(Ord. 552, passed 8-9-1994)
§ 114.06 FEE.
   The cost of license shall be $15 per day up to three days. Any person or
entity receiving a license shall be subject to inspection for sanitation and
shall be required to comply with all city and state health regulations.
(Ord. 552, passed 8-9-1994)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 552, passed 8-9-1994)
CHAPTER 115: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Distributions, sales or exhibits
   
115.03   Performances or exhibitions
   
115.04   Exceptions
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFFENSIVE. The work or exhibition taken as a whole appeals to the prurient
interest and lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL. Any material which is commonly known as
pornographic and is pictorial or written material depicting human sexual
intercourse, masturbation, bestiality, oral intercourse, anal intercourse,
human and animal intercourse, excretory functions, homosexual acts, touching of
clothed or unclothed genitals or pubic areas of humans, flagellation or torture
by or upon a person in the context of a sexual relationship or sexual
stimulation. The materials shall be judged without regard to any covering which
may be affixed or printed over the material in order to obscure genital areas
in a depiction of what otherwise falls within the definition of this term.
Works of art or of anthropological significance are not included within the
definitions of this term.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT PERFORMANCE OR EXHIBITION. Any performance or exhibit
including any play, motion picture, film, act, dance, showing or other
exhibition performed before an audience that depicts human sexual intercourse,
human nudity, the male or female genitals or the display of the female breasts.
Exhibitions of work of art or of displays of anthropological significance are
not included within the definition of this term.
(Ord. 417, passed 7-25-1983)
§ 115.02 DISTRIBUTIONS, SALES OR EXHIBITS.
   No person shall distribute, sell or exhibit to any other person any
offensive or sexually explicit material within 2,000 feet of a church, public
or private school, any city-owned property or a district restricted to
residential use under the zoning ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 417, passed 7-25-1983) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 PERFORMANCES OR EXHIBITIONS.
   No person shall produce, present, direct, promote or participate in any
offensive, sexually explicit performance or exhibition within 2,000 feet of a
church, public or private school, any city-owned property or a district
restricted to residential use under the zoning ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 417, passed 7-25-1983) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   It is specifically provided herein that §§
115.02 and
115.03 hereinabove shall not apply to proscribed activity being conducted
within the confines of a private home so long as the same does not constitute a
public nuisance, a public disturbance and is further not conducted for profit
or in aid of profit.
(Ord. 417, passed 7-25-1983)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provision of this chapter is guilty of a
separate offense for each day or portion of a day during which the violation is
committed, continued or permitted and each offense is punishable by
confiscation and fine not to exceed $200 for each offense. Any material so
found and observed by a complainant herein would not be subject to total
confiscation unless a hearing is first provided; however, any material may be
seized as evidence for any prosecution hereunder.
(Ord. 417, passed 7-25-1983)
CHAPTER 116: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Application for owner's license
   
116.03   Limitation on number
   
116.04   Taxes; nonpayment
   
116.05   Issuance of owner license
   
116.06   Records of owners
   
116.07   Daily manifest
   
116.08   Vehicle license
   
116.09   Identification of vehicle
   
116.10   Telephone required
   
116.11   Record of drivers
   
116.12   Operator license
   
116.13   Stands
   
116.14   Cruising prohibited
   
116.15   Soliciting business and illegal conduct
   
116.16   Passengers' rights
   
116.17   Residency requirements
   
116.18   Inspector of taxicabs
   
116.19   Fees on owner and vehicle license
   
116.20   Revocation or suspension
   
116.21   Liability insurance
   
116.22   Fares; rates
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISE or CRUISING. The movement of unoccupied taxicabs, limousines or
shuttle buses over the public streets of the city in search of prospective
passengers for hire.
   DOME LIGHT. A device to be placed on the front exterior portion of the roof
of every taxicab which is electrically connected with the taxicab meter, will
illuminate, and will indicate when the taxicab is being operated for hire and
when the taxicab is vacant and available for hire by a passenger. The DOME
LIGHT will be white with black lettering.
   DRIVER. A person who drives or operates a taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus.
   LIMOUSINES. A chauffeured motor vehicle used for hire over the public
streets of the city which is not available on demand, is arranged more than
four hours prior to its use for hire, and is operated under a contract or
agreement for its exclusive use by one or more passengers during a period of
time.
   OWNER. Any person having the right to control a taxicab’s, limousines’ or
shuttle buses’ operations and who benefits from the collection of revenues
derived from the operation of taxicabs in the city, but does not include a
driver as herein defined. The word OWNER shall include any person with a
substantial interest in the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus operations of the
owner licensed under this chapter. A person has a substantial interest in the
licensee’s taxicab operation if:
      (1)   The person has any ownership interest in the taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus operation;
      (2)   The person has any financial interest in the taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus operation including, without limitation, a profit interest, loan,
lease or any other type of financial arrangement or scheme;
      (3)   The person receives any benefit from the taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus operation in an amount exceeding $100 per year;
      (4)   The person, in seeking an application for a taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus owner license, is acting in whole or in part for the benefit of or
in concert with a person already holding a taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus
owner license;
      (5)   The person is related to the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus
owner licensee within the second degree of consanguinity or affinity as defined
by the Texas Government Code; and
      (6)   Operates any service that provides for the dispatch of taxicabs or
vehicles for hire via electronic or telephonic communication if such vehicles
are dispatched on demand, or any commercial service where requests for
transportation are transmitted or made available via telephonic or electronic
communication, otherwise known as “ride sharing” or “transportation network
companies.”
   PERSON. Any individual, sole proprietor, partnership (general or limited),
corporation, joint venture, limited liability company, limited liability
partnership, association, trust, estate, foundation, institution, organization,
group, governmental subdivision or agency, and any other entity recognized by
law as the subject of rights and duties whether operated for profit or not for
profit.
   SHUTTLE BUSES. A chauffeured motor vehicle with a rated capacity greater
than nine persons which operates along a fixed route according to a schedule
published at least 24 hours in advance, with at least one point along its route
located more than ten miles from the corporate limits of the city, and which is
not operated for the exclusive use of any passenger.
   SPECIAL SERVICE VEHICLES. A chauffeured vehicle used to transport the aged,
students, participants in aid programs, the handicapped or the infirm by a
municipal entity, motor bus operator or social service agency, otherwise known
as “para-transit.”
   TAXICAB. Every chauffeured motor vehicle with a rated capacity of nine
persons or less used for hire over the public streets of the city. The term
shall not include motor buses operation with the city pursuant to state and
federal permits or by a municipality, ambulances, special service vehicles,
limousines, shuttle buses, or other vehicles that may be defined by this
section.
   WAITING TIME. The time as may be consumed or lost at the special instance
and request of a passenger after the taxicab has arrived at its originating
point to make a trip and before reaching the passenger’s final destination, and
no charge shall be made against a passenger for any time lost on account of any
other delay whatsoever.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--)
§ 116.02 APPLICATION FOR OWNER'S LICENSE.
   (A)   All applications for a taxicab owner license under this chapter shall
be filed with the Inspector of Taxicabs on forms furnished by the City
Secretary for that purpose. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, age and residence of the applicant and his or her
customary occupation, if a natural person. If the applicant is a partnership,
the name, age and residence of all partners, general and limited. If the
applicant is a corporation, its name, date and place of incorporation, the
address of its principal place of business, the names and residences of all its
officers and directors, and the names and residences of all its stockholders
owning 10% or more of the total issued capital stock each, and showing the
percentage of the total issued capital stock owned by each of them, the total
amount and nature of its authorized capital stock, the amount thereof fully
paid up, as well as a duly certified copy of its charter and bylaws and if
applicant is a foreign corporation, a duly certified copy of its permit to do
business in the state;
      (2)   If a natural person, the length of time applicant has been a
resident of the city;
      (3)   The trade name, if any, under which the applicant proposes to
operate, which must not be the same, or substantially similar, to the name of
any currently licensed taxi cab company. The Inspector of Taxicabs shall be the
sole judge of the similarity, or lack thereof, of any name.
      (4)   The address of the place of business from which the applicant
purposes to operate;
      (5)   The make, type, model, capacity and condition of the taxicabs,
limousines or shuttle buses proposed to be operated; the design and color
schemes of each taxicab and the lettering and marks to be used thereon;
      (6)   The number of taxicabs, limousines or shuttle buses for which a
permit is desired, and proof that these taxicabs, limousines or shuttle buses
are registered to the applicant;
      (7)   Full information pertaining to the extent, quality and character of
the service that applicant purposes to render;
      (8)   A full and complete statement of the experience, if any, the
applicant has had in rendering taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus service in the
city or elsewhere; if the applicant is a partnership and each partner, general
and limited; if the applicant is a corporation, a like statement for the
corporation and each of its officers, directors and shareholders; and
      (9)   A copy of the applicant's valid Texas driver's license and a copy
of insurance policy showing the current coverage as required by this chapter.
      (10)   A statement of whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any violation of a motor vehicle law or criminal ordinance of the city, or of
the laws of the State of Texas, or of any other state, or of the United States
or any foreign country and, if so, a statement giving the particulars of each
offense, the time and place of conviction thereof, and the court in which
convicted.
      (11)   Two photographs, front and side view, and two sets of fingerprints
of the applicant, such finger prints to be made under the supervision and
direction of the Inspector of Taxicabs.
      (12)   The proposed color scheme of the taxicabs, which must be distinct
from any currently licensed taxicab company. The Inspector of Taxicabs shall be
the sole judge of the distinctiveness of any color scheme.
   (B)   In considering whether or not to grant an application for the
company’s license to operate vehicles for hire as taxicabs, limousines or
shuttle buses within the city, the Inspector of Taxicabs shall consider the
following:
      (1)   The probable permanency and quality of the service to be provided
by the applicant, the experience gained in rendering the service in the city or
similar service elsewhere, and the past record and experience of the applicant
in adjusting claims and paying judgments, if any, to claimants;
      (2)   The financial ability of the applicant to respond in damages to
claims or judgments arising by reason of injury to persons or damage to
property resulting from the operation of a taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus;
      (3)   The condition of the taxicabs, limousines or shuttle buses to be
used;
      (4)   The character of the applicant. If the applicant is a partnership,
business entity or corporation, the character of the owners, partners,
officers, directors, managers and shareholders will be considered, along with
their criminal history, if any;
      (5)   The Inspector of Taxicabs is authorized and directed, to make such
investigation, as he or she may deem necessary to determine the fitness of the
applicant for such license. Such investigation may include testing the
applicant’s knowledge of the city streets and thoroughfares on such terms as
the City Manager may prescribe;
      (6)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony or serious crime
enumerated under Article 42A.054 of the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, a
sexually violent offense under the definition provided in Article 62.001 of the
Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, or an equivalent crime under the laws of the
United States, another state or a foreign country, or any person convicted
within the last five years of a crime of moral turpitude. The Inspector of
Taxicabs and City Manager have broad discretion to consider any other criminal
charge or criminal history in determining fitness of any applicant for a
taxicab owner license or operator license.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--; Ord. 548-F, passed 12-15-2020)
§ 116.03 LIMITATION ON NUMBER.
   (A)   It is the public policy of the city that consumer choice and
competition in taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus services are in the best
interests of the citizens and consumers of the city. Monopolies, combinations
and schemes that tend to lessen consumer choice and competition are against the
public policy of the city and are prohibited.
   (B)   The city shall allow ten taxicab owner licenses, four limousine owner
licenses and four shuttle bus licenses, which may be modified in the City
Manager’s discretion, upon notice to existing license holders.
   (C)   The city shall allow 40 taxicab vehicle licenses, 16 limousine vehicle
licenses and 16 shuttle bus licenses, which may be modified in the City
Manager’s discretion, upon notice to existing license holders.
   (D)   An owner may obtain only one owner license and no owner shall be
allowed to have vehicle permits for more than 40% of the allowed number of
vehicle licenses, which may be modified in the City Manager’s discretion and
with the approval of the City Commission, upon notice to existing license
holders.
   (E)   A taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus owner licensee shall operate under
one trade name and all vehicles licensed by that owner shall display the same
trade name. Taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus owner licensees shall not
advertise their company under any trade name other than the name in which the
license is issued.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--; Ord. 548-F, passed 12-15-2020)
§ 116.04 TAXES; NONPAYMENT.
   After the City Manager has approved an application for any taxicab,
limousine or shuttle bus owner license, the City Secretary shall examine the
tax records of the city and ascertain whether or not the ad valorem taxes
assessed by the city against the vehicle or vehicles and other equipment to be
used in the business of the applicant have been fully paid. If the taxes have
not been paid, or if the owner has not rendered the property for taxation, the
City Secretary will not issue the applicant a license or renewal thereof until
a time as the appropriate taxes are paid. When all taxes and fees have been
paid, the applicant must re-submit an application and begin the application
process over again to seek a license.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--; Ord. 548-F, passed 12-15-2020)
§ 116.05 ISSUANCE OF OWNER LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon compliance with all provisions of this chapter, and subject to
all provisions, including approval by the City Commission as described in §
116.02(D) of this chapter, the City Secretary shall issue the taxicab,
limousine or shuttle bus owner license applied for.
   (B)   A taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus owner license issued under this
chapter shall be signed by the City Secretary and it shall state the following
information:
      (1)   The year for which the license is issued;
      (2)   The name of the registered owner of the vehicle (which shall be the
taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus owner);
      (3)   The vehicle license fee for each vehicle owned by the taxicab,
limousine or shuttle bus company has been paid and the amount thereof;
      (4)   The amount of the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus owner license
fee paid;
      (5)   The make, vehicle identification number and current license number
of the vehicle or vehicles to be used by the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus
owner;
      (6)   That the registered owner of the vehicles has deposited with the
city a commercial taxicab for hire insurance policy in the taxicab, limousine
or shuttle bus owner’s name, which provides insurance coverage for the
protection of the passengers thereof and of the general public as provided for
in this chapter;
      (7)   The address of the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus owner’s
taxicab stand; and
      (8)   The current telephone number of the taxicab, limousine or shuttle
bus owner at its taxicab stand.
   (C)   The license issued for the operation of a taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus under the terms of this chapter shall be posted at the right hand
front dashboard, above the glove compartment within the taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus, and no person shall operate or permit the operation of the
taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus unless the license is so posted.
   (D)   No license issued under the terms of this chapter shall be transferred
to any other person, nor shall any licensed vehicle be transferred to any other
person, nor shall a license be used for the operation of any vehicle for which
the license is not issued.
   (E)   In the event a taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus licensed under this
chapter is stolen, sold, wrecked or destroyed, the owner thereof shall have the
right to replace the taxicab and upon application to the Inspector of Taxicabs
and surrender of the license for the vehicle stolen, sold, wrecked or
destroyed, a license for the replacement vehicle shall be issued for the
remainder of the license year, without any additional fee, provided the vehicle
meets all the requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   If any owner shall lose a vehicle license issued under this chapter,
before further operating or permitting the operation of the taxicab, limousine
or shuttle bus covered by the license, the owner will procure a duplicate
license from the City Secretary and shall pay for the duplicate license the sum
of $25.
   (G)   Each taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus owner license and taxicab,
limousine and shuttle bus vehicle license shall expire on December 31 of each
year. Failure to renew the license before January 1 of the following year may,
in the discretion of the Inspector of Taxicabs, cause the suspension of owner
and vehicle privileges under this chapter.
   (H)   In the event a taxicab owner enters into an agreement to sell his or
her business, he or she shall notify the Inspector of Taxicabs so that the
prospective owner will have the opportunity to file an application for
licensing and seek approval by the Inspector prior to transfer of the business.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--)
§ 116.06 RECORDS OF OWNERS.
   (A)   Each taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus owner shall maintain at a
single location all records of its taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus business
and operations. The following information will be required to be kept by all
taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus owners and copies furnished to the Inspector
of Taxicabs upon the Inspector’s request:
      (1)   License number and motor identification number of each vehicle
owned or used by owner;
      (2)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of all drivers employed or
authorized to operate owner’s taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus;
      (3)   Name of taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus owner’s insurance carrier
as well as a copy of the policy currently in effect;
      (4)   All repair records for each permitted vehicle, including schedule
of all required safety inspections as required by this chapter;
      (5)   If the owner is an entity other than a sole proprietorship, the
names and addresses of all officers, directors, shareholders, partners and
other persons having a substantial interest in the taxicab operations of the
owner;
      (6)   The daily manifest reports as required by §
116.07 of this chapter; and
      (7)   All other records or reports that may by required to be kept by the
Inspector of Taxicabs, provided the City Manager give approval, in his or her
discretion, prior to the Inspector making any additional requests for
information and reports not listed in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(6) above.
   (B)   Every taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus owner licensed by the city
shall within 30 days following request by the Inspector of Taxicabs submit a
report to the Inspector that will include the receipts, expenses, statistics of
operations of each taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus owner, number of fares
carried during the year and any other information deemed necessary by the
Inspector to receive a complete report on the condition of each taxicab owner.
If not sooner requested by the Inspector, every owner will file a report
annually and it shall be submitted to the Inspector not later than 30 days
after the close of business of each permitted year.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--)
§ 116.07 DAILY MANIFEST.
   (A)   Each taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus owner shall provide its
drivers with forms, approved by the Inspector of Taxicabs, for maintaining a
daily manifest. The forms must include appropriate spaces for recording the
following information:
      (1)   Taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus number, driver’s names, state
driver’s license number, date, hours of operation, total miles, paid miles,
units, trips and extras;
      (2)   Number of passengers and amount of fare and other charges;
      (3)   Time and place of destination of each trip; and
      (4)   Other information required by the Taxicab Inspector to aid in the
discharge of his or her duties.
   (B)   Each driver shall complete a separate manifest for each tour of duty.
The driver shall provide the information required by the form and shall record
the information with regard to trips at the end of each trip. The driver shall
return completed forms to the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus owner for
safekeeping.
   (C)   All records and reports, driver’s manifests and other data prescribed
to be maintained and kept under this chapter shall be preserved by the taxicab
owner in a safe place for not less than two years after the date initially
submitted and all records shall be available for inspection and copying at any
time upon request of the Inspector of Taxicabs.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--)
§ 116.08 VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall drive, operate or cause to be driven or operated, any
taxicab upon or over any street in the city unless there has been obtained by
the owner of the taxicab a vehicle license duly issued by the City Secretary
under the provisions of this chapter, which license is in full force and
effect. This section does not apply to taxicabs licensed in another
jurisdiction that are only discharging passengers in the city. Taxicabs
operating from cities other than the City of Port Isabel must be licensed under
this chapter in order to pick up passengers within the city limits.
   (B)   No vehicle used for taxicab purposes within the city shall be in
excess of 12 years old as measured by calculating the difference between the
model year of the taxicab and the current calendar year.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-D, passed
2-12-2013; Ord. 548-E, passed --; Ord. 548-F, passed 12-15-2020; Am. Ord. 548-
G, passed 1-24-2023) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.09 IDENTIFICATION OF VEHICLE.
   Every taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus shall have painted on the door
thereof the trade name approved in the taxicab company's license, together with
the owner’s telephone number and the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus number.
The number of the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus shall be painted
immediately on the front fender well of each side of the vehicle. The number of
the cab and the telephone number of the owner shall also be painted upon the
rear of the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus. All the lettering mentioned in
this section shall be not less than two and one-half inches in height, and not
less than five-sixteenths inch wide stroke. The vehicle shall be painted or
wrapped with the color scheme approved in the taxicab company's license.
Provided, however, nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use of small
billboards as commercial advertising space on the taxicab, limousine or shuttle
bus. The billboard, shall not, however, be permitted to obstruct the view of
the driver, or otherwise constitute any hazard to safety in the sole judgement
of the Inspector of Taxicabs.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--; Ord. 548-F, passed 12-15-2020)
§ 116.10 TELEPHONE REQUIRED.
   All taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus owners licensed under the provisions
of this chapter shall maintain at their taxi, limousine or shuttle bus stand a
private telephone in good working order. The telephone must be listed in the
telephone directory. A pay telephone is not considered a private telephone for
purposes of this section.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.11 RECORD OF DRIVERS.
   It shall be the duty of an owner of a taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus
licensed under this chapter to furnish the Inspector of Taxicabs the name,
address and driver’s license number of every taxicab driver applying for work
before hiring him or her. The owner shall also furnish to the Inspector of
Taxicabs the name and address of every taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus
driver discharged by the owner and shall give the reason for the discharge.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--)
§ 116.12 OPERATOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall drive any taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus for hire
upon or over the streets of the city unless the person has a current license
issued by the City Secretary and paid for under the provisions of this chapter.
No owner shall permit any taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus to be driven by any
person not licensed under this chapter. All persons operating a taxicab,
limousine or shuttle bus shall be independent contractors.
   (B)   Any person desiring to obtain a license to operate a taxicab,
limousine or shuttle bus in the city shall file, on an annual basis, with the
Inspector of Taxicabs an application for the license on forms to be furnished
by the City Secretary.
   (C)   The applicant for operator’s license shall furnish the following:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name, age and present address;
      (2)   A statement of whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any violation of a motor vehicle law or criminal ordinance of the city, or of
the laws of the state, or of any other state, or of the United States or any
foreign country and, if so, a statement giving the particulars of each offense,
the time and place of conviction thereof, and the court in which convicted;
      (3)   Satisfactory evidence showing the applicant to be the holder of a
valid Texas license allowing the applicant to operate a taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus within the state of Texas;
      (4)   Affidavits of two reputable citizens of the city, showing the
applicant to be trustworthy, sober, competent to operate a taxicab, limousine
or shuttle bus and of good moral character;
      (5)   Two photographs, front and side view and two sets of fingerprints
of the applicant, the fingerprints to be made under the supervision and
direction of the Inspector of Taxicabs;
      (6)   The name of the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus owner;
      (7)   The address and telephone numbers of the taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus owner’s taxicab stand;
      (8)   For shuttle bus and limousine drivers, a valid commercial driver’s
license issued by the State of Texas of the class necessary to operate the
largest vehicle in the owner’s fleet; and
      (9)   For taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus drivers, a letter from a
physician licensed in Texas stating that the physician has examined the
applicant within the last 30 days, and that the driver has been found to be
capable of safely operating a vehicle carrying passengers for hire.
Additionally, the driver shall submit a report from a drug testing lab licensed
in Texas, obtained within the last 30 days, stating that the applicant is free
from illegal drugs.
   (D)   No license shall be issued to the following persons:
      (1)   Any person who is unable to or does not provide all of the
information required in divisions (B) and (C) above of this section;
      (2)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony or serious crime
enumerated under Article 42A.054 of the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, a
sexually violent offense under the definition provided in Article 62.001 of the
Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, or an equivalent crime under the laws of the
United States, another state or a foreign country, or any person convicted
within the last five years of a crime of moral turpitude. The Inspector of
Taxicabs and City Manager have broad discretion to consider any other criminal
charge or criminal history in determining fitness of any applicant for a
taxicab owner license or operator license;
      (3)   Any person under 18 years of age; and
      (4)   Any person who has been convicted of or who has plead guilty to
four or more motor vehicle moving violations in the 12 months prior to
application.
   (E)   The Inspector of Taxicabs is authorized and directed, to make an
investigation, as he or she may deem necessary to determine the fitness of the
applicant for the license. The investigation may include testing the
applicant’s knowledge of the city streets and thoroughfares on terms as the
City Manager may prescribe.
   (F)   If the Inspector of Taxicabs finds that the applicant meets the
requirements of this chapter, an operator license will be issued to the
applicant. A fee of $25 will be paid annually by the licensee, to be paid on or
before January 1 of each year and the license will remain in effect until
December 31 of the calendar year unless the license is revoked as provided in
this chapter.
   (G)   If the Inspector of Taxicabs finds that the applicant is disqualified
to drive a taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus for hire on the streets of the
city, it shall be the duty of the Inspector to render an unfavorable
recommendation prior to any re-consideration being given.
   (H)   A license issued to taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus drivers under
this chapter shall not be transferable.
   (I)   Each taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus driver shall display his or
her license in the taxicab he or she is driving. The license shall show the
license number together with a photograph of the driver, of a size and view as
required by the Inspector of Taxicabs. The license shall be posted in the right
hand front dashboard above the glove compartment of the vehicle.
   (J)   Upon complaint filed by any person against a taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus driver with the Inspector of Taxicabs, or upon the Inspector’s own
motion, charging violation of any of the terms of this chapter or any
ordinances of the city, laws of the state regulating motor vehicles, or for
other good cause, the Inspector, after giving five days notice of the complaint
to the driver, may hear evidence with respect to the complaint. After hearing,
the Inspector may revoke or suspend the driver’s operator license, for good
cause shown. After the Inspector has heard the complaint he or she shall make
his or her findings and declare the same, and either the driver or the
complainant shall have the right of appeal under the provisions of §
116.18(D) and (E) of this chapter.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-D, passed
2-12-2013; Ord. 548-E, passed --) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.13 STANDS.
   (A)   All taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus owners licensed under the
provisions of this chapter shall maintain an off-street taxicab stand to be
located within the city limits or extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Cities
of Laguna Vista, Port Isabel or South Padre Island. The stand shall serve as
the only location from which dispatching of taxicabs, limousines and shuttle
buses shall be allowed. The stand shall provide adequate office space and
facilities, a restroom facility, an area for at least two persons to wait for
taxicab service, and vehicle parking places equal to or greater than the total
number of licensed taxicabs, limousines and shuttle buses operated by the
taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus owner within the city.
   (B)   The location of taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus stands must comply
with the code of ordinances of the city, and must not adversely affect
neighboring properties. Each stand shall be inspected by the Inspector of
Taxicabs for compliance with the terms of this chapter and the inspections will
be conducted not less than two times in each calendar year.
   (C)   The use of any street, alley, sidewalk, public thoroughfare or public
property wherever situated within the city as a taxicab stand, or as a place of
business for owners or operators of taxicabs, limousines and shuttle buses to
receive  calls for service or from which to dispatch taxicabs, limousines and
shuttle buses or a place to assemble or habitually park taxicabs when awaiting
calls for service, is prohibited and declared unlawful. Similar use of private
property by taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus operators is prohibited despite
the consent of the property owner to the use.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--; Ord. 548-F, passed 12-15-2020) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.14 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus driver shall cruise in search of
passengers at any time.
   (B)   A taxicab may stop and pick up a passenger after being flagged down by
the passenger if, and only if, the taxicab may stop where safe for the
passenger and giving consideration to the volume of traffic at the location. A
shuttle bus may stop and pick up passengers at scheduled stops only. A
limousine may pick up and discharge passengers only at the points indicated in
the contract between the limousine owner and the passenger.
   (C)   An unoccupied taxicab is permitted to do the following which will not
be deemed to constitute cruising:
      (1)   Proceed to answer a telephone call for taxicab service from an
intended passenger; or
      (2)   Proceed to the available taxicab stand nearest the place of
discharge of the last passenger.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the prohibition against parking set forth in §
116.13 above, the Inspector of Taxicabs, after consultation with and approval
by the City Manager, may designate areas within the city that may be used for
taxi and shuttle bus parking at times during which high demand for taxi and
shuttle bus service is anticipated. The areas shall be determined by the
Inspector of Taxicabs in his or her discretion, and if the area is located on
private property the Inspector shall attempt to arrange a designated area with
the property owner or occupier. In the event a designated area is allowed by
the property owner, the area may, in the discretion of the Inspector of
Taxicabs, be made available to all taxicab and shuttle bus vehicles licensed
under this chapter without preference to the taxicab and shuttle bus owner or
taxicab or shuttle bus driver.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.15 SOLICITING BUSINESS AND ILLEGAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   No owner or driver of any taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus, or any
other person, shall seek or solicit patrons or passengers for any taxicab by
word or sign, directly or indirectly, while driving any taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus over, through or in any public place of the city, or to repeatedly
or persistently drive any taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus through, over or on
any public streets or places of the city, except in response to calls by
patrons for a taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus, or while actually transporting
passengers therein.
   (B)   No owner or driver of a taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus shall
solicit business for or from a hotel, motel or rooming place or attempt to
promote or divert patronage for or from one business to another. No owner or
driver shall engage in selling or providing intoxicating liquors, narcotics or
controlled substances nor shall they participate in facilitating the purchase,
possession, sale or use of narcotics or controlled substances by any person.
Violation of this division shall be grounds for suspension and revocation of
the owner’s taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus license, the vehicle license and
the taxicab operator’s license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or driver of a taxicab, limousine
or shuttle bus to knowingly transport any person while the person is in the
commission of a crime. Violation of this division shall be grounds for
suspension and revocation of the owner’s taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus
license, the vehicle license, and the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus
operator’s license.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.16 PASSENGERS' RIGHTS.
   (A)   While operating a taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus, all drivers must
keep themselves clean in person and dress and must maintain their taxicab in a
clean and neat condition at all times.
   (B)   Any taxicab driver employed to carry a passenger to the passenger's
destination shall take the shortest and most direct route that will result in
the lowest fare possible to the passenger while giving consideration to the
safety of the passenger.
   (C)   When a taxicab is engaged, the passenger shall have the exclusive
right to the full and free use of the passenger compartment, and the owner or
driver of any taxicab shall not solicit or carry additional passengers therein,
except with the consent and approval of the original passenger.
   (D)   No passenger shall cause or permit to be carried, in any taxicab, at
any time more than seven passengers and the driver of the vehicle, with all
passengers fully seated and using the usual and full space provided. Each
passenger carried in a taxicab in excess of the maximum permitted number of
passengers shall constitute a separate offense and shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.17 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   The holders of all taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus owner licenses who are
natural persons and the holders of all operator licenses must be authorized to
work in the United States.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--)
§ 116.18 INSPECTOR OF TAXICABS.
   (A)   The Inspector of Taxicabs will be appointed by the City Manager. It is
the duty of the Inspector to supervise the operation of taxicabs, limousines
and shuttle buses within the city. The Inspector will perform the duties
prescribed by this chapter and further duties as may be directed from time to
time by the City Manager.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every owner to have all taxicabs, limousines
and shuttle buses licensed under this chapter inspected every six months by the
Inspector of Taxicabs or the qualified person as may be designated by the City
Manager to perform inspections, including, but not limited to, an inspector
licensed by the state. The inspection shall include, but not be limited to,
inspection of lights, brakes, steering, tires, a road test, physical appearance
and the general mechanical condition of the vehicle. Upon finding the vehicle
is in acceptable mechanical condition, the Inspector shall issue a certificate
stating that the vehicle has been inspected, the date of inspection,
identification of the vehicle and that the vehicle has passed inspection. The
Inspector shall affix a seal on the windshield stating the date of inspection
and approval. The owner shall pay an inspection fee not to exceed $50 per
inspection. The operation of a taxicab without a current inspection seal, even
though otherwise properly licensed, shall constitute grounds for an automatic
ten-day suspension of the vehicle license and an automatic ten-day suspension
of the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus operator license of the person
operating the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus, in addition to the criminal
penalties provided by this chapter.
   (C)   If the Inspector of Taxicabs finds that any taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus is in a defective condition and is unsafe to be used as a taxicab,
limousine or shuttle bus, he or she shall order the vehicle removed from
service and it shall not be used as a taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus until
the defect is remedied. After the owner has taken action to remedy the defect,
the owner shall offer the vehicle for re-inspection, and if the Inspector finds
the vehicle to be safe for public use, he or she shall approve the same as
provided in § 116.02(D) herein. If the vehicle is still in a defective
condition he or she shall order that it not be used unless it passes subsequent
inspection.
   (D)   When an appeal is permitted in this chapter to the City Manager to
review any decision of the Inspector of Taxicabs, the appeal shall be perfected
within ten days from the date of the decision by written notice from the
appellant addressed to the City Manager stating that an appeal from the
decision is requested, describing the decision appealed from and the date
thereof. The City Manager, as soon as practicable after receiving notice of
appeal, shall grant the appellant a hearing, and after the hearing shall
modify, sustain or reverse the findings or decision of the Inspector and shall
certify his or her decision in writing to the Inspector and to the appellant.
If no appeal is taken from any findings or decision made by the Inspector
within the time required, the decision of the Inspector shall be final.
   (E)   The decision of the City Manager may be appealed to the City
Commission, provided that notice of appeal be perfected within ten days of the
City Manager’s written decision. Notice of appeal shall be given by sending a
certified letter, return receipt requested, addressed to the Mayor and City
Commissioners in care of the City Secretary at City Hall, stating that this
appeal from the decision of the City Manager is desired to the City Commission.
To perfect an appeal, a copy of any notice of appeal must also be sent in the
same manner to the City Manager and the City Attorney. The City Secretary
shall, to the extent practicable, thereafter place the appeal on the next
agenda for the next regular meeting of the City Commission.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Inspector of Taxicabs from
inspecting any taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus at any time in the Inspector’s
sole discretion.
   (G)   Tinted windows on any taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus must pass
state requirements.
   (H)   A record of all inspections made, shall be kept by the Inspector of
Taxicabs.
   (I)   If the Inspector of Taxicabs finds any taxicab, limousine or shuttle
bus in a defective condition and orders its use as a taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus discontinued, the owner of the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus
shall have the right to appeal under the provisions of divisions (D) and (E)
above.
   (J)   It shall be the duty of every owner to maintain and submit to the
Inspector of Taxicabs every 180 days detailed records indicating whether or not
each taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus licensed under the provisions of this
chapter has been used and operated as a taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus on
each day of the immediately preceding 180 days.
   (K)   The Inspector of Taxicabs shall revoke the taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus license for every taxicab which has not been used or operated as a
taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus for at least 45 days in any 180-day period as
determined by his or her inspection of the records provided in division (J)
above of this chapter.
   (L)   No taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus will be permitted to operate
without a functioning dome light. The dome light must not be illuminated when
the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus is being operated for hire and must be
illuminated when the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus is vacant and available
for hire.
   (M)   Bulletin boards may be placed on taxicabs, limousines and shuttle
buses and there will be no limitation on the language in which any message is
displayed.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.19 FEES ON OWNER AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   In order to pay for the licensing and regulation of taxicab operations,
there shall be levied license fees as follows:
   (A)   Each taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus owner shall pay a license fee
of $150 per year. The fee shall be paid to the City Secretary before a license
or renewal is issued. The fee shall be due before January 1 of the year for
which a renewal is issued. License fees for new owners may be pro-rated through
December 31. There shall be no refunds of owner license fees paid under this
section for each vehicle licensed to operate as a taxicab, limousine or shuttle
bus.
   (B)   A taxicab owner shall pay a vehicle license fee of $150 for each
vehicle licensed to operate as a taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus. The fee
shall be paid to the City Secretary before a vehicle license or renewal is
issued. The fee shall be due in advance on an annual basis before January 1 of
the year for which it is issued. License fees for new vehicles may be pro-rated
through December 31. There shall be no refunds of vehicle license fees paid
under this section.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-D, passed
2-12-2013; Ord. 548-E, passed --)
§ 116.20 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Upon complaint filed by any person against a taxicab, limousine or shuttle
bus owner or taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus operator with the Inspector of
Taxicabs, or upon the Inspector’s own motion, charging violation of the terms
of this chapter or any ordinance of the code of ordinances of the city, or any
law of the state, or for any other cause based upon the health, safety and
welfare of taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus passengers and the general
public, the Inspector, after giving five days written notice of the complaint
to the owner or driver may hear evidence with respect to the complaint. After
hearing, the Inspector shall make his or her findings and he or she may revoke
or suspend the taxicab owner license or the taxicab operator license, for good
cause shown. After the Inspector has pronounced his or her ruling, the owner,
operator and complainant shall have the right of appeal under the provisions of
§
116.18(D) and (E) of this chapter.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--)
§ 116.21 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Before an operator license shall be issued under this chapter, or
before any renewal of an owner license shall be granted, the owner shall file
with the City Secretary, and thereafter keep in full force and effect, a policy
of public liability insurance approved by the City Manager and issued by an
insurance company duly authorized to do business in the state, and insuring the
public against any loss or damage that may result to any person or property
from the operation of the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus covered.
   (B)   The amount of coverage in a policy of insurance required by this
chapter shall be not less than the following sums:
 
For the bodily injury or death of any one person in any one accident $25,000
Because of bodily injury or death of 2 or more persons in any one    $50,000
accident
For injury or destruction of property of others in any one accident  $25,000
 
   (C)   The minimum amount of liability coverage shall never be less than the
amount required by the laws of the State of Texas under the Texas Motor Vehicle
Safety Responsibility Act, being Texas Transportation Code §§ 601.001 et seq.
as amended, and the minimum required amounts of insurance in division (B) may
be increased in the City Manager’s discretion, at any time, upon delivery of
written notice to all holders of taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus owners or
drivers licenses.
   (D)   The public liability insurance coverage required by this chapter shall
be for the protection of the passengers of the insured taxicab, limousine or
shuttle bus and for the public.
   (E)   All policies of public liability insurance required by this chapter
shall contain a provision for a continuing liability thereon up to the full
amount thereof, notwithstanding any recovery thereon.
   (F)   In the event of the return unsatisfied of any execution issued on any
final judgment rendered against any taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus company
owner in any suit for damages on account of injury to person or property
occasioned by the operation of any taxicab, the owner, within ten days after
the return of the execution unsatisfied, provided the judgment is still unpaid,
shall increase the amount of his or her insurance coverage to pay the judgment,
or otherwise furnish evidence satisfactory to the City Manager that the owner
can pay the judgment, and failing to do so shall forthwith cease the operation
of taxicabs, limousines and shuttle buses in the city until the additional
insurance is deposited or the judgment is paid.
   (G)   If any insurer desires to be released from any insurance filed under
this chapter, it may give written notice of the desire to the Inspector of
Taxicabs at least 30 days before it desires its liability released, and the
Inspector of Taxicabs shall thereupon give written notice, by personal delivery
or by mail, to the insured and demand that he or she furnish new insurance by
the expiration of the 30-day period above provided for.
   (H)   If any policy is canceled upon request of the insurer, and no new
insurance policy is filed before cancellation of the original insurance, the
operator license granted to the insured shall be automatically revoked without
notice.
   (I)   Neither the city nor any officer thereof shall be held liable for the
pecuniary responsibility or solvency of any insurer under the provisions of
this chapter, or in any manner become liable for any sum on account of the
claim or act or omission relating to the insured vehicle, nor shall the
liability of the owner of any vehicle be in any manner limited or changed by
reason of the provisions of this chapter, but the judgment creditors having
causes of action secured thereby shall be authorized to sue directly on the
policy of insurance without implicating the city, and all persons known to any
insurer to have been injured or damaged in the same accident and claiming
damages thereunder may be made parties without priority of claim on payment in
any suit had or instituted on account of the matter, except as otherwise
provided by law.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--)
§ 116.22 FARES; RATES.
   (A)   (1)   The following rates, fares and charges for taxicab service are
as hereby established and become effective upon the effective date of this
chapter. They shall be posted in the driving compartment of each licensed
vehicle in a place conspicuous to all passengers therein. These rates are the
established rates for specific locations in the Cities of Port Isabel and South
Padre Island:
One passenger or more, with a total limit of 5 passengers:
   Port Isabel           $5
   P.I. High School      $6
   Laguna Heights        $6
   Laguna Vista          $7
   Brownsville Shrimp Bas$40
   Cameron County Airport$45
   Los Fresnos           $45
   Bayview               $40
   San Benito            $65
   Harlingen             $75
   Brownsville           $60
   SPI Raddison          $7
 
   SPI Flop & Shop        $7
   SPI D'Pizza Joint      $7
   SPI Bahia Mar          $7
   SP (Andy Bowie)
   Waiting time (15 minute$2 every 5 minutes of wait time
 
      (2)   (a)   Standard limousines with a maximum capacity of six
passengers. There shall be a minimum charge of $50 per contract. Subject to
minimum charge, limousine service is to be charged according to the following
maximum rates: the lesser of $10 a mile or $250 per hour.
         (b)   Extended limousines with a maximum capacity greater than six
passengers. A minimum charge of $100 per contract. Subject to minimum charge,
limousine service is to be charged according to the following maximum rates:
the lesser of $15 per mile or $300 per hour.
      (3)   Shuttle buses. A maximum charge of $100 each way.
   (B)   There shall be posted at the right front dash above the glove
compartment on the inside of each taxicab, limousine and shuttle bus a card
showing the rates charged passengers of the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus.
No driver shall refuse to convey a passenger at the rate specified on the rate
card or demand or receive an amount in excess of the rates displayed on the
card.
   (C)   No driver, upon receiving full payment of fare from a passenger, shall
refuse to give a receipt upon request of the passenger.
   (D)   No person shall refuse to pay the legal fare of any taxicab before
leaving the taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus before leaving the taxicab,
limousine or shuttle bus, except that owners of limousines and shuttle buses
may require the payment of the fare prior to transportation, or may enter into
a mutually-agreed arrangement to bill the passenger.
   (E)   No taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus driver within the city shall work
as a taxicab, limousine or shuttle bus driver more than 60 hours between the
hours of 12:01 a.m. Sunday and 11:59 p.m. the next Saturday.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 548-E, passed
--)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate, participate or acquiesce in the violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter or who shall fail to comply herewith or
with any of the requirements hereof, shall for each and every violation or
noncompliance be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be
fined not more than $200. Each day the violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 548B, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 548-C, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 117: VEHICLES FOR SALE
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Restricted area
   
117.03   Enforcement
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VEHICLES. Any automobile, truck, watercraft, motorhome, travel trailer,
motorcycle or trailer.
   VEHICLES FOR SALE. Any of the above listed vehicles displaying the words
"FOR SALE" or with a price assigned in any manner.
(Ord. 575, passed 11-12-1996)
§ 117.02 RESTRICTED AREA.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct the sales of vehicles within the corporate
city limits of the city, with the following exceptions:
   (A)   Properties legally zoned and displaying automobile dealership
licensing documentation with all necessary city permits;
   (B)   Automobile repair shops or full service stations may display one
vehicle for sale on the property; and
   (C)   Residential properties only, may park one vehicle for sale within the
property boundaries.
(Ord. 575, passed 11-12-1996) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When the Code Enforcement Department determines that there is a
violation of this chapter, a 12-hour notice will be placed in a visible
location on the vehicle.
   (B)   If the violation continues to exist 12 hours or more after the notice
is posted, or in the case of a repeat offense, the vehicle will be towed and a
citation given to the registered owner. All costs of citation will be given to
the registered owner. All costs of towing will be charged against the
registered owner.
   (C)   If after 30 days, the vehicle is not claimed, or upon conviction the
fine is not paid, the vehicle will be considered abandoned and the city's lien
will attach.
   (D)   The City Police Department is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Building Official is further
authorized to render interpretations of this code, which are consistent with
its spirit and purpose.
(Ord. 575, passed 11-12-1996)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter, or any provision
of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to authority granted by this
chapter, shall upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $10 or
more than $200, and each day's failure to comply with any provision shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 575, passed 11-12-1996)
CHAPTER 118: WRECKER SERVICES
Section
   
118.01   Application for placement on rotation list
   
118.02   Twenty-four hour service
   
118.03   Impoundment of vehicles
   
118.04   Auto pound requirements
   
118.05   Maximum security
   
118.06   Operation on rotation list
   
118.07   Insurance coverage
   
118.08   Prevailing fees for wrecker services
   
118.09   Response time and duties
   
118.10   Removal from rotation list
   
118.11   Must comply with guidelines
   
118.12   Soliciting of towing company/wrecker business on city streets
prohibited
   
118.13   Driving wrecker to scene of collision
   
118.14   Interception of police radio communications
   
118.15   Vehicles to display name of permit holder
   
118.16   Application
   
118.17   Business permit fees
   
118.18   Rates
   
118.19   Procedure for disposal of abandoned motor vehicles
   § 118.01 APPLICATION FOR PLACEMENT ON ROTATION LIST.
   Any person or firm wishing to be placed on the wrecker rotation list of the
City Police Department must make application to the Chief of Police. The Chief
of Police will inspect any and all wreckers to be placed on the wrecker
rotation list.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 118.02 TWENTY-FOUR HOUR SERVICE.
   The wrecker service must provide 24-hour service, seven days per week,
during which time at least one wrecker must be available, for wrecker
operations and for providing available personnel to release vehicles.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 118.03 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   All vehicles towed in by a wrecker company at the direction of the Police
Department shall be impounded in an enclosed area, or at a place designated by
the Police Department, by the company until release of the vehicle is
authorized by the Police Department.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 118.04 AUTO POUND REQUIREMENTS.
   An auto pound shall:
   (A)   Be located within the city limits or within a five mile radius of the
city;
   (B)   Be located in an industrially zoned area;
   (C)   Be enclosed by a chain link fence or wood of a height not less than
six feet;
   (D)   Be locked when not attended by an employee of the wrecker service; and
   (E)   Be adequately lighted for security purposes.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 118.05 MAXIMUM SECURITY.
   The City Police Department may request that an automobile be stored in a
maximum security indoor area either located at the impoundment facility or at
another site approved by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 118.06 OPERATION ON ROTATION LIST.
   In order to receive approval for operation on the rotation list, each
wrecker must meet the following requirements:
   (A)   Be not less than three-quarter ton and be equipped with booster
brakes;
   (B)   Be equipped with a power winch, winch line and boom with a sling-type
lift and lifting capacity of not less than 10,000 pounds;
   (C)   Carry as standard equipment the following: tow bars, safety chains,
fire extinguisher, wrecking bars, booms and an axe; and
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985; Ord. 634, passed 2-10-2004; Ord. 634-A, passed 12-
15-2020)
§ 118.07 INSURANCE COVERAGE.
   The wrecker operator shall have in force a policy of public liability and
property damage insurance, which policy shall include the city as an insured,
covering the public from any loss or damage that may arise to any person or
property by reason of the operation of a wrecker of the company and proving
that the amount of recovery on each wrecker shall be in limits of not less than
the following sums:
   (A)   For damages arising out of bodily injury to or death or one person in
any one accident: $100,000;
   (B)   For damages arising out of bodily injury to or death of two or more
persons in any one accident: $300,000;
   (C)   For injury to or destruction of property in any one accident: $50,000;
   (D)   A certificate of general garage liability (Broad Form Property Damage)
to cover any damage or theft to any vehicle stored within the permittee's
vehicle depository. This coverage will be in the minimum amount of $25,000; and
   (E)   A certificate of cargo insurance to cover damage to a towed vehicle
during hook-up and/or towing, in the minimum amount of $25,000.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 118.08 PREVAILING FEES FOR WRECKER SERVICES.
   Wrecker companies conducting rotation or private towing services shall
charge no more than the rates set herein as a condition of operation within the
city:
   (A)   Standard rotation tows (consent and non-consent): $200.
   (B)   Standard consent tows: $200.
   (C)   Standard private property tows: $200.
   (D)   Use of dollies, winches, jacks and other equipment: $30 in addition to
towing fee.
   (E)   Recovery of vehicles in water which is greater than 12 inches in
depth, or which is tidally- influenced: $450, plus $300 for all or part of each
additional hour beyond one hour. In the event divers are needed to retrieve the
vehicle, an amount equal to 130% of the diver’s fee, in addition to the cost of
recovery.
   (F)   Standard recovery of vehicles from sand: $250.
   (G)   Waiting time, beyond one hour of arrival on scene: $50 for all or part
of each 15 minute interval.
   (H)   Consent towing to locations outside of the corporate limits or extra-
territorial jurisdiction of the city: $2 per mile, beginning at the limit of
the city’s extra-territorial jurisdiction, in addition to the standard towing
fee.
   (I)   Drop fee, to be charged when a tow is abandoned at the request of the
vehicle owner following the connection of the towing equipment to the vehicle:
$125.
   (J)   Incident management fee (cleaning of debris, automotive fluids and
other matter generated by collisions from the roadway; does not include
hazardous materials): $50 for all or part of each hour. In the event hazardous
materials remediation is required, and amount equal to 130% of the hazardous
materials remediation company, in addition to the cost of incident management.
   (K)   Recovery of vehicles greater than three tons gross vehicle weight
rating, an additional $150 for all or part of each hour.
   (L)   Upon petition of a towing operator licensed under this section, or its
own motion, the city shall examine the prevailing fees for wrecker services,
and issue revisions to the maximum fees set forth herein.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985; Ord. 448-A, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 634-A, passed
12-15-2020)
§ 118.09 RESPONSE TIME AND DUTIES.
   Wrecker response time shall not be more than 15 minutes for any call. The
wrecker operator shall be responsible for cleaning the roadway of glass and
debris when responding to a call of a motor vehicle accident.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 118.10 REMOVAL FROM ROTATION LIST.
   Any wrecker service company which makes application and is placed on the
rotation list and is called by the Police Department under the terms of these
requirements shall be required to respond to any authorized call. Should any
wrecker service company fail to respond to two consecutive calls or fail to
maintain a reasonable record of responding to calls, the Chief of Police shall
report same to the City Manager, and upon the City Manager's concurrence, the
name of the company shall be removed from the rotation list and the company
shall not be eligible for application to have its name replaced on the rotation
list for a period of six months from the date of its removal. The same removal
provisions shall be applicable for failure to reasonably comply with any other
provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 118.11 MUST COMPLY WITH GUIDELINES.
   All wrecker services operating on the Police Department rotation list must
comply with all guidelines as set forth in the State Abandoned Motor Vehicle
Act, Tex. Revised Civil Statutes Article 4477-9a.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 118.12 SOLICITING OF TOWING COMPANY/WRECKER BUSINESS ON CITY STREETS
PROHIBITED.
   No permit holder, agent or employee of a permit holder shall solicit in any
manner, directly or indirectly, on the streets of the city, towing company/
wrecker business involving any vehicle which is wrecked upon a public street.
This prohibition applies regardless of whether the solicitation is for the
purpose of soliciting the business of towing, repairing, storing, purchasing or
trading of the vehicle.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.13 DRIVING WRECKER TO SCENE OF COLLISION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, or cause to be driven, a
wrecker in any manner that it comes to be unsafe or a hazard to the safety of
the public or in violation of any existing laws, statutes or ordinances.
Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive, or cause to be
driven, a wrecker to or near the scene of a collision or wreck of any street in
the city, unless the wrecker has been called to the scene by the City Police
Communications Department or by a party involved in the collision or wreck;
provided, that when it is necessary to prevent death or bodily injury to any
person involved in a collision or wreck, the prohibition of this section shall
be inapplicable. If a permit holder is summoned to the scene by the request of
a party involved in a collision or a wreck, an indication of this fact shall be
made on a form provided by the Chief of Police and signed by the party who
caused the wrecker to be summoned to the scene.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.14 INTERCEPTION OF POLICE RADIO COMMUNICATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any permit holder, agent or employee of a permit
holder for the purposes of business economic gain to intercept any message
emanating through the medium of the Police Department's radio frequencies or
any radio frequencies that may be assigned to the Police Department in the
future, except as in cases where the City Police Communications Center contacts
or requests the wrecker over any of the designated police frequencies.
Furthermore it shall be expressly prohibited to divulge the context, content,
substance, purpose, effect or meaning of intercepted police communications.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.15 VEHICLES TO DISPLAY NAME OF PERMIT HOLDER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a certified wrecker to drive the
wrecker without the wrecker having the trade name of the permit holder to which
it is exclusively registered prominently displayed on the wrecker. A wrecker
may not display more than one trade name on any part of the vehicle, nor may it
display a trade name other than that of the wrecker company that is the owner
of the wrecker. As a minimum the name shall appear in clearly legible letters
at least three inches high, which are permanently painted on the vehicle on a
contrasting background.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985; Ord. 634-A, passed 12-15-2020)
§ 118.16 APPLICATION.
   An applicant for a permit shall submit, on a form provided by the Chief of
Police a verified application containing or accompanied by the following:
   (A)   The true name, the trade name, address and telephone number of the
towing company/wrecker business;
   (B)   The license number, quantities, types and manufacturer's rating of
wreckers proposed to be operated; and
   (C)   The true name, address and telephone number of the owners of the
towing company/wrecker business to be operated under the permit. If the towing
company/wrecker business is owned by a corporation, the true names of the
registered agents, directors and officers of the corporation; if any
stockholder of the towing company/wrecker business is itself a corporation,
then the true name of this stockholder corporation, its registered agents,
directors and officers of the one or more corporations must be given on the
permit application.
   (D)   No trade name may be used that is the same or substantially similar to
the name of a currently licensed wrecker company. The Chief of Police shall be
the sole judge of the similarity, or lack thereof, of any name.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this subchapter, no new
application for a wrecker company may be approved if ten or more wrecker
companies are currently licensed.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985; Ord. 634-A, passed 12-15-2020)
§ 118.17 BUSINESS PERMIT FEES.
   The business permit shall run from January 1 through December 31 (a calendar
year). The annual fee for each permit will be $50, renewable within the last 30
days of the year. (This is for each wrecker.)
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 118.18 RATES.
   The pound master shall submit to the city $10 for each tow during any given
month. If full payment owed for the city impoundment fee is not paid by the
fifteenth of each month, the delinquent firm shall be removed from the rotation
list.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985; Ord. 634-A, passed 12-15-2020)
§ 118.19 PROCEDURE FOR DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Notification of owner and lien holders. When the Police Department
takes into custody an abandoned motor vehicle as defined in the State Abandoned
Motor Vehicle Act, Tex. Revised Civil Statutes § 5.01 or when the Police
Department releases its "hold" on any vehicle held by the Police Department for
investigation or evidence, it shall notify within ten days thereof, by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, the last known
registered owner of the motor vehicle and all lien holders of record pursuant
to the Certificate of Title Act, being Texas Transportation Code §§ 501.001 et
seq., as amended, that the vehicle has been taken into custody. The notice
shall describe the year, make, model and vehicle identification number, set
forth the location of the facility where the motor vehicle is being held,
inform the owner and any lien holders of their right to reclaim the motor
vehicle within 20 days after the date of the notice, upon payment of all
towing, preservation and storage charges resulting from placing the vehicle in
custody. Further, the notice shall state that the failure of the owner or lien
holders to exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle within the time provided
shall be deemed a waiver by the owner and all lien holders of all right, title
and interest in the vehicle and their consent to the sale of the motor vehicle
at public auction.
   (B)   Notice by publication and mail. If the identity of the last registered
owner cannot be determined, or if the registration contains no address for the
owner; or, if it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the
identity and address of all lien holders, notice by one publication in one
newspaper of general circulation in the area where the motor vehicle was
abandoned or taken into custody shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of
notice pursuant to this chapter. The notice by publication can contain multiple
listings of vehicles. Any notice by registered or certified mail, shall have
the same contents and state the effect or failure to reclaim as required for a
notice by registered or certified mail.
(Ord. 448, passed 6-11-1985)
CHAPTER 119: OIL AND GAS
Section
Natural Gas Piping
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Bond required
   
119.03   Qualifications, permits and fees
   
119.04   No permit required for repairs
   
119.05   Inspector's notice of defects and changes
   
119.06   Inspection of work
   
119.07   Responsibility of plumbers in charge
   
119.08   No appliance to be installed unless type approved
   
119.09   Materials to be used by gas fitter
   
119.10   Installation of house piping
   
119.11   Testing and inspection
   
119.12   Installation of gas meters
   
119.13   Installation of service by gas company
   
119.14   Duties and powers of Inspector
   
119.15   Connection of meter to gas service
Oil and Gas Exploration
   
119.30   Oil and gas exploration prohibited
 
   
119.99   Penalty
NATURAL GAS PIPING
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAS or NATURAL GAS. Natural gas of approximately 1,000 BTU heating value and
0.6 specific gravity. The term does not include butane or propane.
   GAS COMPANY. Any person, firm or corporation holding and exercising a
franchise to distribute natural gas within the city limits and supplying
natural gas to any premises therein.
   GAS PIPING.
      (1)   All piping fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of
natural gas for all personal or domestic purposes in and about buildings where
a person or persons live, work or assemble; all piping, fixtures, appurtenances
and appliances outside a building connecting the building with the source of
natural gas supply on the premises, or the main in the street, alley or at the
curb.
      (2)   The installation, repair and maintenance of all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances in and about a building where a person or persons
live, work or assemble, for a supply of natural gas.
   GAS SERVICE. The gas pipe leading from a main to a meter location or a
meter.
   HOUSE PIPING. The gas piping leading away and extending from the curb line
or the property line of the consumer, consuming appliance or appliances.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.02 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before being issued a city permit to do any gas piping work, the
person must file with the governing body of the city a bond in the sum of
$1,000 with good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the governing body.
The conditions of the bond are as follows:
      (1)   The applicant for the permit will obey all ordinances regulating
plumbing and gas piping;
      (2)   Will obey all ordinances regulating excavations in or puncturing of
streets, alleys or other public property;
      (3)   Will refill the excavations or punctures according to standards
established by the city;
      (4)   Will replace all pavements in as good condition as same are prior
to the excavation or puncture;
      (5)   Will place lights and guards around all materials or apparatus left
in any street, alley or other public way;
      (6)   Will place lights and guards around all excavations or punctures;
      (7)   Will repair all damages that arise in making connections with water
and sewer mains or laterals; and
      (8)   Will hold the city harmless from all damage that may accrue by
reason of any excavation or puncture made the applicant.
   (B)   The above bond shall apply to anyone connecting to gas lines.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.03 QUALIFICATIONS, PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Installation by qualified agency. Installation, replacement or repair
of a consumer's gas piping or appliances shall be performed only by a qualified
agency. A qualified agency is defined as any individual, firm or company which
either in person or through a representative is engaged in and is responsible
for the installation, replacement or repair of consumer gas piping or
appliances, and who is experienced in the work and familiar with all
precautions required.
   (B)   Permits. No gas fitter shall install, or make alteration to
installation, of house piping or appliances in any new or old building within
the limits of the city without first obtaining a permit for the work from the
City Plumbing Inspector's office. Application for the permits shall be made in
writing by the owner of the property or his or her authorized agent to the
Plumbing Inspector. The application shall give the location of the property,
the name of the owner and the name of the person employed to do the work, and
shall be made on blanks furnished for the purpose.
   (C)   Fees. A fee of $5 shall be payable to the city for each separate
permit issued. This fee shall cover the cost of the inspection of the gas
piping system by the City Plumbing Inspector or his or her assistant.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.04 NO PERMIT REQUIRED FOR REPAIRS.
   No permit shall be necessary in the making of repairs, stopping leaks in
pipes, replacing or repairing broken fixtures, provided the repairs are not so
extensive as to change the character of the plumbing or its connections, in
which case a permit shall be necessary.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.05 INSPECTOR'S NOTICE OF DEFECTS AND CHANGES.
   The owner or agent in charge of any building shall, when notified of any
defects or changes needed in his or her or his or her principal's gas piping by
the City Plumbing Inspector, make the changes or repairs within five days after
the notification.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.06 INSPECTION OF WORK.
   No piping shall be covered or concealed until it has been accepted by the
City Plumbing Inspector after inspection, which inspection shall be made by the
Inspector within two days after he or she has received notice that the work is
complete.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.07 RESPONSIBILITY OF PLUMBERS IN CHARGE.
   The plumber in charge of any work shall be held responsible for the
condition and completion of the work according to the ordinance and regulations
governing plumbing and gas piping in the city and shall be liable upon his or
her bond for defects therein and damages resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.08 NO APPLIANCE TO BE INSTALLED UNLESS TYPE APPROVED.
   No gas appliance, fixtures or apparatus, either for heating, illumination or
water heating may be installed until the type of the appliance, apparatus or
fixture has been approved by the City Plumbing Inspector or his or her
assistant.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.09 MATERIALS TO BE USED BY GAS FITTER.
   (A)   Pipe used above ground in gas installations shall be of the best
quality steel, free from splits
or other defects. Pipe underground must be galvanized steel, black steel,
copper or approved plastic.
   (B)   No secondhand pipe shall be used.
   (C)   No gas pipe smaller than one inch will be permitted to be used in
piping gas from all gas mains to the first opening on the premises of the user.
   (D)   All stop cocks used in connection with gas house piping shall be of a
standard grade with safety
shut-off handle.
   (E)   Three-way valves are not permitted in any case.
   (F)   Unions or running threads shall not be used on concealed gas piping,
either in original installation or repairs.
   (G)   In case of repairs requiring a pipe to be cut, it shall be reconnected
with right and left thread coupling.
   (H)   The use of cement for repairing split or faulty pipe or fittings is
not permitted.
   (I)   Rules governing size and length of pipe and greatest number of
openings allowed in piping buildings for gas appliances:
For House on One Room or Not to Exceed 8
No. Openings Length Pipe Feet Size in Inches
For House on One Room or Not to Exceed 8
No. Openings Length Pipe Feet Size in Inches
1            10               1/2
1            30               3/4
1            100              1
1            350              1-1/4
2            20               3/4
2            60               1
2            160              1-1/4
3            40               1
3            120              1-1/4
4            20               1
4            90               1-1/4
5            70               1-1/4
4            125              1-1/4
6            30               1-1/2
7            30               1-1/2
8            15               1-1/4
8            50               1-1/2
9            40               1-1/4
10           30               1-1/2
 
   (J)   Rules governing the size of main run or piping in houses and flats:
      (1)   Houses and flats containing seven rooms and under, the main run to
the kitchen for fuel must be not less than one inch in diameter from first main
branch;
      (2)   Houses and flats having more than seven rooms, the minimum size of
the main run to the kitchens for fuel must be one and one-fourth inch to first
main branch; and
      (3)   For large buildings or where unusual conditions are met with
consult the City Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.10 INSTALLATION OF HOUSE PIPING.
   (A)   The branch supply pipes to all cooking stoves, ranges and water
heaters (circulating, instantaneous and automatic) shall be same size or larger
than inlet connection of above mentioned appliances and runs from mains or
branch supply line to appliance shall not be less than one-half inch. Risers in
buildings must in no case be less than one-half inch.
   (B)   All house piping shall be securely fastened to floor joists or sills
with either galvanized pipe straps or pipe hooks, or with perforated pipe
straps, and in a manner as to prevent pipe from sagging and becoming trapped.
The following maximum spacing of supports shall be used:
 
3/8 inch or l/2 inch pipe              6 feet
3/4 inch or 1 inch pipe                8 feet
1-1/4 inch or larger pipe (horizontal) 10 feet
 
   (C)   When in running pipe it is necessary to cross through wood joist or
beams, they shall be notched as little as possible, but never to a depth of
more than one-fifth of the depth of the timber. This notching shall be as close
as possible to a point of support of the timber and should in no case be
further from support than one-sixth of the total unsupported span of the
timber. When feasible the piping should run as that only timbers having the
shortest spans shall be cut.
   (D)   No gas pipe shall be run closer than six inches to any electric wires
unless the electric wires be inside of conduit.
   (E)   When necessary to connect two sizes of pipe, a reducing coupling shall
be used. No bushings permitted.
   (F)   Where extensions to house piping are made, care must be taken to break
pipe where the rule for size can be maintained.
   (G)   When a house piping line is laid underground, pipe of not less than
one-inch diameter shall be used and must be run in a straight line.
   (H)   Piping shall not be laid in cinder concrete, cinders or any corrosive
material unless pipe is covered with a coating and wrapped with felt paper,
equal to specifications used by the gas company.
   (I)   Piping from house to property line shall have not less than 12 inches
cover and the ditch shall remain open until inspected.
   (J)   Gas lines must not be laid in same trench with sewer line and must be
located not less than three feet from sewer line.
   (K)   White lead or other suitable thread lubricant shall be used sparingly
and applied only to the male threads in making up joints or gas house piping.
   (L)   Each and every gas stove, range, cooking stove, water heater and other
gas consuming appliance shall be provided with a lever handled safety stop cock
located in the riser above the floor and below the union, at the appliance. The
cock shall be readily accessible at all times.
   (M)   Gas connection to ranges, cooking stoves, water heaters and other
appliances shall be made by metal connections or AGA approved hose connections.
   (N)   No stove, range, cooking stove, water heater or other appliance nor
any portion of same which comes in direct contact with the gas flames or hot
gases shall be placed less than ten inches from any woodwork or wooden lath and
plaster partition, unless approved by the American Gas Association for closer
setting.
   (O)   No gas stove or water heater shall be directly connected with a flue
that serves another apartment, except that flues from several apartments may be
united in the attic. See division (G) above.
   (P)   Furnaces and water heaters must be provided with vent and flue
connection on the furnace or water heater and extend to open air at least two
feet above the crown of the roof and terminate with cap.
   (Q)   Where more than one appliance is vented with a flue, the area of the
flue shall be equal to the combined areas of the vents entering into it.
   (R)   Ranges, hot plates and the like, used in hotels, restaurants and
hamburger stands, where gas is used for fuel, must be provided with canopies
properly vented into brick, tile or metal flues extending to open air at least
two feet above the crown of the roof.
   (S)   Vents to gas appliances, concealed inside of partitions, under floors,
or enclosed in any manner so that the vent pipes are in contact with wood,
shall be air tight and shall be double wall metal with an air space or asbestos
cement pipe.
   (T)   Vent pipes in attics may connect with a chimney flue; or may extend
through the roof to open air at least two feet above the crown of the roof and
terminate with a screened cap. The vent pipes in attics and above roof shall be
of at least No. 22 gauge galvanized iron. Exposed vent pipes in rooms may be
No. 26 gauge galvanized or black iron.
   (U)   Wood partitions through which vent pipes pass must be protected by a
thimble with a proper air space, except that no vent pipe shall pass through
any closet or pantry used for the storage of clothing, household goods or any
combustible material, unless properly insulated as set out in division (S)
above.
   (V)   Water heaters and gas appliances having pilot burners must be provided
with down draft devices above the fixture in the vent, near the appliances.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.11 TESTING AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   The house piping in a building shall be tested air tight by the gas
fitter and before the pipes are concealed they must be inspected, the test
witnessed, a certificate of inspection issued and an inspection tag attached to
the piping by the City Plumbing Inspector.
   (B)   The test on house piping shall be made by closing all openings and
subjecting the pipes to an air pressure of five pounds per square inch gage
(Psig) for at least 30 minutes. The piping shall be considered tight if there
is no measurable pressure drop.
   (C)   A fire test is not permitted under any circumstances.
   (D)   When the gas fitter has completed the system of piping and has all
branch and bracket extensions and heater openings firmly and permanently
fastened, he or she shall test the piping and if found tight, shall make
application for tests with the City Plumbing Inspector. The Plumbing Inspector,
or one of his or her assistants, will call and inspect the piping and witness
the test and if he or she finds the piping tight and the sizes and work in
accordance with the provisions of the subchapter, then the City Plumbing
Inspector or the assistant will issue and deliver a certificate.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.12 INSTALLATION OF GAS METERS.
   (A)   In piping any house for gas the gas company shall decide and designate
in every case where the gas meter is to be located.
   (B)   The fitter shall extend the house piping line to this point.
   (C)   Where one or more meters are desired for a given building, the gas
company may set as many meters as there are separate consumers applying for the
same, connection the meters to one service pipe, providing that the house
piping leading to different consumers are extended to and connected with their
respective meter connection outlets and are run according to the requirements
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.13 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE BY GAS COMPANY.
   In no case shall the gas company turn gas into new, altered or repaired
house piping system until receipt of certificate of inspection covering same.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.14 DUTIES AND POWERS OF INSPECTOR.
   The City Plumbing Inspector and his or her assistants are hereby authorized
and empowered:
   (A)   To supervise all house piping, appliances, fixtures and apparatus,
whether now or hereafter installed, placed in, or any manner connected, in
buildings and structures of every character, in the city;
   (B)   To supervise the installation, construction, alteration and repair
thereof, and to see that all the rules and regulations of the city with respect
thereto are properly complied with;
   (C)   To inspect and re-inspect all house piping, appliances, fixtures and
apparatus and the installation, construction, alteration or repair thereof;
   (D)   The City Plumbing Inspector and his or her assistants shall be subject
to the order and direction of the City Commission and are hereby vested with
full authority to enter any structure or premises, either public or private, at
any time in the discharge of their duties, and to pass upon and decide any
question arising under the provisions of this subchapter relating to any house
piping, appliance, fixtures or apparatus or installation or repair thereof, or
relative to the materials used therein, whether the same being in the original
construction and erection or in any alteration or repair thereof; and
   (E)   The City Plumbing Inspector is authorized to shut off all gas service
in residences or business houses in the city where in his or her judgment the
house piping or appliances are unsafe. The gas will remain shut off until a
time as if the unsafe conditions are corrected by the property owner or the
fitter installing same, and a certificate of inspection issued by the City
Plumbing Inspector and copy thereof furnished to the gas company, after which
the gas company may restore the service.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
§ 119.15 CONNECTION OF METER TO GAS SERVICE.
   No person, firm or corporation other than the gas company owning the service
or supplying gas through the service shall at any time turn on any valve or
cock on any gas service or open or make connection to any gas service or main.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957)
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION
§ 119.30 OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other legal entity, to
conduct any type of drilling operations within the city for the exploration
and/or recovery of oil and gas or other minerals.
(Ord. 562, passed 8-22-1995) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Natural gas piping. Any person, firm, association or corporation that
shall fail to comply with or violate any of the provisions of §§
119.01 through 1119.15 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not less than $5 nor more than
$200 for each offense.
   (B)   Oil and gas exploration. Any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of §
119.30 or shall fail to comply therewith or with any of the requirements
thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be liable to a fine
and, upon conviction of any violation, shall be fined in any sum of not more
than $100 for each offense, and each day that the violation exists shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 183, passed 9-9-1957; Ord. 562, passed 8-22-1995)
CHAPTER 120: AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
120.01   Definitions
   
120.02   Permit required
   
120.03   Location of amusement redemption machine or device establishments
   
120.04   Issuance of permit
   
120.05   Fees
   
120.06   No alcohol on premises
   
120.07   Inspection
   
120.08   Amusement redemption machine or device supervisor
   
120.09   Persons under 18 prohibited; sign to be displayed
   
120.10   Expiration of an amusement redemption machine or device establishment
permit
   
120.11   Revocation
   
120.12   Appeals
   
120.13   Transfer or assignment of permit
   
120.14   Existing amusement redemption machine or device premises
   
120.15   Civil enforcement
 
   
120.99   Penalty
§ 120.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE   OR DEVICE. Any electronic, electro-
mechanical, paper, digital or mechanical contrivance or scheme designed, made,
and adapted for amusement or other purposes, where the contrivance or scheme
has the capacity to reward the player with non-cash or merchandise prizes,
toys, or novelties, or a representation of any value or thing of value that is
redeemable or otherwise available to a winning player.
   AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE OR DEVICE ESTABLISHMENT or AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION
MACHINE OR DEVICE PREMISES. Any business location that has in operation any
amusement redemption machine or device is deemed to be an amusement redemption
machine establishment or amusement redemption machine premises and subject to
this chapter and all the rules and regulations of the city.
   PERMIT. A license to operate an amusement redemption machine establishment
or amusement redemption machine premises.
   PERMITTEE.  A person in whose name a permit to operate an amusement
redemption machine establishment or amusement redemption machine premises has
been issued.
   PERSON.  An individual, even when acting for a partnership, corporation,
association or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. Any premises requiring a permit under the terms of this chapter.
The term PREMISES shall include the grounds, the buildings, and vehicles as
well as any adjacent premises either directly or indirectly under the control
of the permittee.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An association of persons for the promotion of some common
object which operates not for a profit, or a place for the accommodation of its
members and guests only.
   PUBLIC FACILITY. Any property owned and/or operated by the City of Port
Isabel or any governmental entity.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit must be obtained from the city to operate an amusement
redemption machine or device establishment or an amusement redemption machine
or device premises. Operating an amusement redemption machine establishment or
amusement redemption machine premises without a permit is an offense under this
chapter. Carnival games or games designed for children are exempt from this
chapter.
   (B)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
city. The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any person who wishes to operate an amusement redemption machine or
device establishment or amusement redemption machine or device premises must
sign the application for a permit as applicant. If the owner or operator of an
amusement redemption machine or device establishment or amusement redemption
machine or device premises is other than an individual, then each individual
who has a 20% or greater interest in the business must sign the application for
a permit as an applicant. Each applicant will be considered a permittee, and
each such person shall be personally liable for any violation of this chapter.
   (D)   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter if the alleged
activity is not otherwise illegal and is conducted at:
      (1)   A private residence from which the general public is excluded;
      (2)   A place owned by the federal, state or local government;
      (3)   A public or private elementary school, secondary school, college or
university; or
      (4)   A place owned by a religious organization.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.03 LOCATION OF AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE OR DEVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   A person commits an offense if he operates or causes to be operated an
amusement redemption machine or device establishment or amusement redemption
machine or device premises within 300 feet of a municipal, county or other
governmental building, church, school, or hospital.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Secretary shall approve issuance of a permit to an applicant
within 30 days after receipt of an application unless the Chief of Police finds
any one of the following to be true:
      (1)   An applicant or an employee is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue in payment to the
city or county of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed
upon real and/or personal property;
      (3)   An applicant, an applicant's spouse or an employee has been
convicted of a violation of a provision of this chapter or any other ordinance
within a period of two years preceding the application;
      (4)   Any fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
      (5)   An applicant, an applicant's spouse or an employee, if the operator
is a business entity, has been convicted of a felony or a crime of moral
turpitude as defined in the Tex. Penal Code within a period of ten years
preceding the application;
      (6)   An applicant, an applicant's spouse or an employee has been
convicted of any gambling offense described in Tex. Penal Code Chapter 47
within a period of ten years preceding the application; or
      (7)   An applicant, an applicant's spouse or an employee has been
convicted of public lewdness, indecent exposure, or indecency with a child as
defined in Tex. Penal Code Chapter 21 within a period of ten years preceding
the application.
   (B)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed has no effect on the
disqualification of the applicant, the applicant's spouse or an employee under
this chapter. Any conviction, even under appeal, disqualifies any applicant.
   (C)   The City Secretary, upon approving issuance of an amusement redemption
machine or device establishment or amusement redemption machine or device
premises permit shall send the applicant, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, written notice of that action and state where the applicant must pay
the permit fee and obtain the permit. The City Secretary's approval of the
issuance of a permit does not authorize the applicant to operate an amusement
redemption machine or device establishment or amusement redemption machine or
device premises until the applicant has paid all fees required by this chapter,
obtained possession of the permit and passed initial inspection by the City
Building Inspector or his agent.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.05 FEES.
   (A)   The schedule of permit fees for an amusement redemption machine or
device establishment or amusement redemption machine or device premises is $500
per machine on premises.
   (B)   In addition to the fees required by this section, an applicant shall,
at the time of making application, pay a non-refundable application fee of $500
for the city to conduct an inspection of the proposed premises together with
the surrounding area to ensure compliance with all applicable health and safety
codes and ordinances and to ensure compliance with the locational restrictions
set forth in §
120.03.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.06 NO ALCOHOL ON PREMISES.
   No amusement redemption machine or device establishment or amusement
redemption machine or device premises shall serve alcoholic beverages of any
nature, nor shall alcoholic beverages be consumed upon the premises.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.07 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Representatives of the police, fire, building inspection, code
enforcement and any other governmental departments may inspect the amusement
redemption machine or device establishment or amusement redemption machine or
device premises for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, without
prior notice, at any time it is open for business or occupied.
   (B)   Any person who operates an amusement redemption machine or device
establishment and any person designated as the amusement redemption machine or
device establishment supervisor and the permittee(s) commit an offense if any
of them or anyone acting on their behalf refuses to permit a lawful inspection
of the premises of an amusement redemption machine or device establishment.
   (C)   The front door of the amusement redemption machine establishment may
not be locked or access restricted when the premises is open for business or
has any occupant.
   (D)   Before issuance of a permit, the Building Inspector or his agent shall
inspect the premises for compliance with state and local laws and ordinances.
Compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances is condition precedent to
issuance of a permit.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.08 AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE OR DEVICE SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   Upon the approval of a permit by the City Secretary, a person who
operates an amusement redemption machine or device establishment or amusement
redemption machine or device premises must designate a person as an amusement
redemption machine or device establishment or amusement redemption machine or
device premises supervisor. The designation must include that individual's
correct and current full name, address, telephone number, drivers license
number, and a photo ID. There may be more than one supervisor designated by a
permittee.
   (B)   If a permittee wishes to designate a different individual as the
supervisor it will be necessary for the designation procedure described in this
section to be followed.
   (C)   A person designated as the amusement redemption machine or device
establishment supervisor must remain on the premises of the establishment at
all times during operating hours to ensure that all activities are conducted in
a lawful manner.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.09 PERSONS UNDER 18 PROHIBITED; SIGN TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted on the premises
of any amusement redemption machine or device establishment unless accompanied
by a parent or adult guardian.
   (B)   Any person holding a permit shall prominently display on the premises
a sign reading as follows:
   "MINORS UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS (18) OF AGE NOT ALLOWED IN THESE PREMISES
UNLESS ACCOMPANIED BY PARENT OR ADULT GUARDIAN"
   (C)   A person who operates an amusement redemption machine or device
establishment or a person designated as an amusement redemption machine or
device establishment supervisor commits an offense if he or she knowingly
permits a person under 18 years of age to enter or remain on the premises
unless accompanied by a parent or adult guardian.
   (D)   No person under the age of 18 years may be allowed to participate in
or play any such amusement redemption machine or device, and it shall be a
violation of this chapter by the operator and supervisor for such a person to
be allowed to play or participate.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.10 EXPIRATION OF AN AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE OR DEVICE ESTABLISHMENT
PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit for an amusement redemption machine or device establishment
shall expire one year from the date of issuance. A permit may be renewed only
by making application as provided in §
120.02. Application for renewal should be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date. When made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the
expiration of the permit will not be affected by the pendency of the
application.
   (B)   When the City Secretary denies renewal of a permit, the applicant may
not be issued an amusement redemption machine or device establishment permit
for one year from the date of that denial. If, subsequent to denial, the City
Secretary finds that the basis for denial of the renewal permit has been
corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a permit if at least 90 days
have elapsed since the denial.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.11 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Secretary shall, subject to the provisions of §
120.12, revoke a permit if a permittee, an employee, or a supervisor has
violated any provision of this chapter or has permitted consumption of illegal
drugs or alcohol, or gambling or gaming of any kind by any person on the
premises.
   (B)   The City Secretary shall, subject to the provisions of §
120.12, revoke a permit if the City Manager, City Secretary or the Chief of
Police determines that one or more of the following is true:
      (1)   A permittee has given false or misleading information in the
material submitted to the City Secretary and/or the Chief of Police during the
application process;
      (2)   A permittee or employee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A permittee or employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A permittee is under indictment for or is convicted of any felony
offense or any misdemeanor offense listed in §
120.04.
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the permit. When the City Secretary or the Chief of Police
revokes a permit, the revocation will continue for one year after the
revocation becomes final. If, subsequent to revocation, the City Secretary or
the Chief of Police finds that the basis for the revocation action has been
corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a permit if at least 90 days
have elapsed since the revocation became final.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.12 APPEALS.
   If the City Secretary denies the issuance or renewal of a permit or suspends
or revokes a permit, the City Secretary shall send to the applicant or
permittee, by certified mail, return receipt requested, written notice of the
action and the right to an appeal. The aggrieved party may appeal the decision
of the City Secretary to the City Manager. In the event of a suspension or
revocation, the filing of an appeal and the posting of a cash bond in the
amount of $500 shall stay the action of the City Secretary until the City
Manager makes a final decision. The City Manager shall determine the manner and
procedure for hearing such an appeal, and shall hear the appeal within 60 days
of filing at a date, place and time determined by the City Manager. If, after
such hearing, the City Manager denies the appeal or in the event the aggrieved
party fails to fully prosecute the requested appeal to a conclusion, the $500
cash bond previously posted shall be forfeited as costs and remainder of any
suspension or revocation shall be fully implemented. The decision of the City
Manager shall be final.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.13 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF PERMIT.
   A permit cannot be transferred or assigned. A permittee is prohibited from
operating an amusement redemption machine or device establishment under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.14 EXISTING AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE OR DEVICE PREMISES.
   Any existing business or premises that meets the definition of an amusement
redemption machine or device establishment or amusement redemption machine or
device premises must comply with all the provisions of this chapter within 30
days of the effective date of this chapter including, but not limited to,
obtaining a permit. Failure to obtain a permit within 30 days of the effective
date while continuing operations of the amusement redemption machine or device
establishment or amusement redemption machine or device premises will be a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.15 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   In the event of any violation of this chapter, the city may file a lawsuit
to enjoin such violation and may also sue to collect a civil penalty in the sum
of $2,000 for each day that this chapter is violated. Suit to enjoin violation
of this chapter and to collect the civil penalty hereby imposed may be brought
in any court of competent jurisdiction in Cameron County, Texas. The City
Attorney may also collect attorney's fees and court costs from any person or
entity who violates this chapter by such lawsuit.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of at
least $500 and not to exceed $2,000 for each offense and for each day such
offense shall continue.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-15-2013)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
131.   MINORS
         
132.   WEAPONS
         
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
         
134.   SMOKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Fees to be charged for prisoners detained in city jail by other
agencies
   
130.02   Arson reward
   
130.03   Arrest without warrant
§ 130.01 FEES TO BE CHARGED FOR PRISONERS DETAINED IN CITY JAIL BY OTHER
AGENCIES.
   (A)   Person(s) to be incarcerated by other agencies temporarily or until
the person(s) is lawfully transferred to some other place may be held at the
city's detention place or jail at a charge of $10 for first 12 hours of
incarceration and $15 for any person incarcerated more than 12 hours. No person
is to be incarcerated in the city jail for more than 24 hours and
responsibility to move persons so incarcerated shall be upon law enforcement
agency placing person in the city jail.
   (B)   Prisoners shall be humanely treated.
   (C)   No person, other than authorized, shall give prisoners any food,
cigarettes or any other items. It shall be the duty of the city to provide
persons incarcerated with meals.
   (D)   Minor medical treatment will be offered by the city jail but in the
case of a major or serious illness or serious injury the arresting agency shall
be contacted and shall be responsible for all medical attention and police
protection, including transportation to a medical facility. In no case will any
medical treatment be given or offered by the city jail to any person who is
injured or ill when brought to the city jail by the arresting agency. The
arresting agency shall be responsible for all medical treatment and bills
related thereto for any injury or illness occuring or caused while in their
custody before being incarcerated in the city jail.
   (E)   No person will be accepted by the city jail who is unconscious,
seriously injured or seriously ill until the person is first taken for medical
treatment by the arresting agency.
   (F)   No female person (prisoner) shall be incarcerated in the same cell
with a male person (prisoner).
   (G)   When the arresting agency brings or causes to be brought a juvenile to
the city jail, the arresting agency must first contact the juvenile officer or
other proper official to get permission to so detain the juvenile. The juvenile
officer or proper official shall call the City Police Department dispatcher or
officer in charge and relay to them that detention of the juvenile is
necessary. No juvenile prisoner shall be detained in the same cell with an
adult prisoner. Under no circumstances will a juvenile prisoner be detained or
incarcerated more than four hours.
   (H)   All person(s) being incarcerated in the city jail shall be searched.
No items of value shall be kept by prisoners so detained or incarcerated. An
inventory slip shall be prepared by the city jail showing all items retained by
the city jail and signed by person(s) being incarcerated. Upon proper release
or transfer of the prisoner, all items on the individual's inventory slip shall
be returned to individual or arresting agency so transporting the prisoner.
   (I)   All prisoners so incarcerated shall be allowed one telephone call not
to exceed three minutes. If the prisoner is so intoxicated that he or she
cannot place a telephone call, it will be up to the officer in charge to have
the prisoner call at a time he or she is incarcerated or later. If the prisoner
does not reach the party he or she wished to call or can't place the call, he
or she shall be given the right to place the call again or call someone else.
(Ord. 361, passed 2-28-1977; Ord. 361A, passed 11-13-1978)
§ 130.02 ARSON REWARD.
   The city hereby offers a reward of $300 for the arrest and conviction of any
person or persons found guilty of committing the crime of arson within the
corporate limits of the city. This reward is a standing offer and shall be paid
out of the general fund of the city.
(Ord. 331, passed 1-14-1974)
§ 130.03 ARREST WITHOUT WARRANT.
   From and after the passage and approval of this section, the Chief of Police
and his or her deputies shall have authority to arrest without warrant any
persons found in suspicious places and under circumstances which reasonably
show that the persons have been guilty of some felony or breach of the peace or
threaten or are about to commit, some offense against the laws.
(Ord. 143, passed 2-19-1954)
CHAPTER 131: MINORS
Section
Curfew
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Curfew for minors
   
131.03   Parental responsibility
   
131.04   Police procedure
   
131.05   Defenses
Property Damage Caused by Children
   
131.20   Definitions
   
131.21   Offense
 
   
131.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Port Isabel, Texas.
   KNOWINGLY. Knowledge that a parent should reasonably be expected to have
concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that parent's custody.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 17 years of age unaccompanied by his or
her parent.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor, including:
      (1)   A natural or adoptive parent;
      (2)   A legal guardian;
      (3)   A person who stands in loco parentis; or
      (4)   A person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a court
of competent jurisdiction.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Parks, school grounds, cemeteries, public facilities and their
grounds, and includes privately owned property which is generally accessible to
the public such as, but not limited to, parking lots and driveways.
   REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry or to stay unnecessarily upon streets or
public places including, but not limited to, the congregating of groups (or of
interacting minors) of which any minor involved would not be using the streets
or public places for ordinary purposes, such as passage or going home.
   STREET. A way or place, of whatever nature, opened for the use of the public
for the purposes of vehicular travel, or in the case of a sidewalk thereof, for
pedestrian travel. The term STREET includes the entire right-of-way. The term
STREET includes alleys, canals, channels, highways, roads, waterways and all
other public rights-of-way however denominated.
   VEHICLE. Every mechanical device, in, upon, or by which any person or
property may be transported or drawn upon a street including but not limited to
bicycles, boats, cars, mopeds, motorcycles, motor scooters, pickup trucks,
semi-trailers, sport utility vehicles, tractors, truck tractors and vans.
(Ord. 630, passed 9-23-2003)
§ 131.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any unaccompanied minor to remain upon any
street or public place within the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m., Sunday through Thursday and 12:00 a.m. through 6:00 a.m. on Friday,
Saturday and any day preceding a school holiday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any unaccompanied minor to be traveling in a
vehicle operated by another minor upon any street or public place within the
city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. through 6:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday
and 12:00 a.m. through 6:00 a.m. on Friday, Saturday and any day preceding a
school holiday.
   (C)   This section shall have effect for a period of five years from the
date of adoption, whereupon it shall automatically expire unless renewed by the
adoption of an ordinance providing for its renewal by the City Commission.
(Ord. 630, passed 9-23-2003; Ord. 630-A, passed 8-15-2017; Ord. 630-B, passed
3-14-2023) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent to knowingly permit, or by insufficient
control allow, a minor to remain upon any street or public place in the city
under circumstances not constituting a defense under §
131.05 herein.
(Ord. 630, passed 9-23-2003) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 POLICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any peace officer, upon discovery of an unaccompanied minor in
violation of §
131.02 of this subchapter, shall take the minor into custody and shall, upon
the belief of the officer that the elements present during the violation of the
curfew constitute conduct requiring supervision, as defined by the Tex. Family
Code, Title 3, prepare and submit the case to the proper authorities for
processing under the provisions of Tex. Family Code, Title 3.
   (B)   Any minor taken into custody for violation of §
131.02 of this subchapter who is discovered to be under the age of ten years
shall not be accused of unlawful conduct but shall be released to his or her
parent pursuant to Police Department procedure.
   (C)   Any peace officer, upon discovery of a parent in violation of §
131.03 of this subchapter, shall prepare and file a criminal complaint in the
Municipal Court charging the parent or parents with violations of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 630, passed 9-23-2003; Ord. 630-A, passed 8-15-2017)
§ 131.05 DEFENSES.
   It shall be a defense to a violation of §
131.02 of this subchapter that the minor was:
   (A)   Returning home, by a direct route, from work, from a school activity,
an activity of a religious nature or any other lawful activity conducted by
adults in a responsible manner;
   (B)   Engaged in nighttime activities sponsored by a school or other
educational entity; or
   (C)   Engaged in interstate vehicle travel, with parental consent, beginning
or ending in the city. This defense does not apply to vehicular travel merely
in or about the city.
(Ord. 630, passed 9-23-2003; Ord. 630-A, passed 8-15-2017)
PROPERTY DAMAGE CAUSED BY CHILDREN
§ 131.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD. A person under 18 years of age who is not and has not had his or her
disabilities of minority removed for general purposes.
   PARENT. The mother, a man as to whom the child is legitimate, or an adopted
mother or father, a court appointed guardian or conservator of other person 18
years of age or older, authorized by the  parent, by a court order, or by the
court appointed guardian or conservator to have the care and custody of a
child.
(Ord. 560, passed 8-8-1995)
§ 131.21 OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for a parent of a child to fail to repair or pay for
any property damage proximately caused by:
   (A)   The negligent conduct of the child if the conduct is reasonably
attributed the negligent failure the parent to exercise control and reasonable
discipline of the child; or
   (B)   The willful and malicious conduct of a child who is at least 12 years
of age but under 18 years of age.
(Ord. 560, passed 8-8-1995) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Curfew. A person who violates §
131.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished
by a fine not to exceed $200 for the first offense. Conviction of a second
offense shall be punished by a fine of not less than $200 nor exceeding $500.
Conviction of a third or subsequent offense shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $500 nor exceeding $2,000.
   (B)   Property damage caused by children. A parent violating §§
131.20 and
131.21 shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 560, passed 8-8-1995; Ord. 630, passed 9-23-2003)
CHAPTER 132: WEAPONS
Section
Firearms
   
132.01   Prohibition against discharging or firing
   
132.02   Exception
Concealed Handguns
   
132.15   Concealed handguns prohibited
 
   
132.99   Penalty
FIREARMS
§ 132.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST DISCHARGING OR FIRING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or fire any revolver,
pistol, rifle, shotgun or other firearm of any kind within the corporate
boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 493, passed 7-28-1987) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the discharge or firing
of any firearms occurring at the G.W. Gross Pistol Range, provided that the
occurrence therein conforms with the rules and regulations of the G.W. Gross
Pistol Range.
(Ord. 493, passed 7-28-1987)
CONCEALED HANDGUNS
§ 132.15 CONCEALED HANDGUNS PROHIBITED.
   The carrying of any concealed handgun by any person, unless the person is a
licensed peace officer under the laws of the state and is carrying a concealed
handgun under the course of scope of his or her employment, is prohibited on
all city-owned premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to carry a
concealed handgun in violation of the provisions of this section. This
subchapter is intended to be interpreted liberally so as to prohibit handguns
form any and all city property that state law allows municipalities to
regulate. The City Manager is hereby authorized to post notice of this
prohibition at the entrance of all city premises. Any person carrying a
concealed handgun in violation of this prohibition shall be considered to be
entering the premises of the city in violation of Tex. Penal Code § 30.05, this
section being the criminal trespass statute of the state.
(Ord. 567, passed 1- -1996) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Firearms. Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
§§
132.01 and
132.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $200 for each violation hereof and each
separate discharge or firing of any kind of firearm shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   Concealed handguns. Any violation of the provisions contained in §
132.15 shall, upon conviction, be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 567, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 493, passed 7-28-1987)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
133.01   Display of signs on utility poles
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 DISPLAY OF SIGNS ON UTILITY POLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tack, paste or in any manner attach
any sign, notice, bill or other advertising matter to any telegraph, telephone
or electric light pole or fire hydrant in the city.
(Ord. 457, passed 11-12-1985) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the terms of §
133.01 shall be deemed a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, any person
so violating shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $200.
(Ord. 457, passed 11-12-1985)
CHAPTER 134: SMOKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Distribution, display, and sale of smoking products and cigarette
machines
   
134.03   Prohibition of smoking in public places
   
134.04   Prohibition of smoking in places of employment
   
134.05   Prohibition of smoking in outdoor areas
   
134.06   Locations where smoking not regulated
   
134.07   Persons under age of 18 years in smoking area
   
134.08   Declaration of establishment as nonsmoking
   
134.09   Posting of signs
   
134.10   Retaliation prohibited
   
134.11   Enforcement
   
134.12   Additional fees for restaurants
   
134.13   Governmental agency cooperation
   
134.14   Other applicable laws
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAR. An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages, including but not
limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges, and cabarets.
   BUSINESS. A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation, or
other business entity formed for profit-making purposes, including retail
establishments where goods or services are sold, as well as professional
corporations and other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering,
architectural, or other professional services are delivered.
   CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINE. Any self-service device which, upon insertion of
coin(s), paper currency, token(s), card(s) or key(s) or any other item(s),
dispenses one or more smoking; products, provided that the term shall neither
be deemed to include any machine that is in storage, in transit, or otherwise
not set up for use and operation, nor be deemed to include any machine that is
situated on a train, bus, or other public conveyance.
   COMEDY CLUB. An establishment that is primarily used for live comedic
entertainment.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, or a person who volunteers his or
her services for a non-profit entity.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust, or non-profit entity that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded on at
least two sides by walls, doorways, or windows, whether open or closed. A wall
includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other physical barrier,
whether temporary or permanent, and whether or not containing openings of any
kind.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical,
physiological, or psychological conditions, including but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals, or other clinics including weight control
clinics, nursing homes, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories,
and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians,
dentists, and all specialists within these professions. This definition shall
include all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semi-private rooms, and
wards within health care facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An area under the control of a public or private
employer, including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges,
restrooms, conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias,
hallways, and vehicles. A private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT unless
it is used as a child care, adult day care, or health care facility.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which:
      (1)   Is the owner, lessee, or occupant of a building or portion thereof
used exclusively for club purposes at all times;
      (2)   Is operated solely for a fraternal purpose but not for pecuniary
gain;
      (3)   Only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation;
      (4)   Conducts its affairs and management through a board of directors,
executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at an annual
meeting;
      (5)   Has established bylaws or a constitution to govern its activities;
and
      (6)   Has been granted an exemption from the payment of federal income
tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. Section 501.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including but not limited to, banks, bars, bingo
facilities, educational facilities, gaming facilities, health care facilities,
hotels and motels, laundromats, public transportation facilities, reception
areas, restaurants, retail food production and marketing establishments, retail
service establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, sports arenas, theaters,
and waiting rooms. A private residence is not a PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used
as a child care, adult day care, or health care facility.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, as
well as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall include a bar area
within the restaurant.
   RETAIL STORE. Any business establishment offering goods or services for sale
or barter to the public.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products, smoking implements, or smoking accessories for on-premises
consumption and in which the sale of other products is merely incidental, which
shall include but not be limited to hookah lounges, cigar bars and humidors. In
this definition, "primarily" means that the sale of tobacco products, smoking
implements, or smoking accessories shall be at least 65% of the total sales
revenues
   SHOPPING MALL. An enclosed public walkway or hall area that serves to
connect retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKE. The gases, particles, or vapors released into the air as a result of
combustion, electrical ignition, or vaporization, including from an electronic
smoking device, when the purpose of the combustion, electrical ignition, or
vaporization is human inhalation of the gases, particles, or vapors.
   SMOKING. The use of any pipe, cigar, cigarette, electronic cigarette,
electric cigarette, hookah, water pipe, or other device used to inhale powder,
smoke, or vapor, regardless of the substance.
   SMOKING PRODUCTS. Any pipe, cigar, cigarette, electronic cigarette, electric
cigarette, hookah, water pipe, or other device used to inhale powder, smoke, or
vapor, regardless of the substance; and smoking product shall mean any device
used to inhale powder, smoke, or vapor, regardless of the substance.
   SPORTS ARENA. Sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing
arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys, and other similar
places where members of the general public assemble to engage in physical
exercise, participate in athletic competition, or witness sports or other
events.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 134.02 DISTRIBUTION, DISPLAY, AND SALE OF SMOKING PRODUCTS AND CIGARETTE
MACHINES.
   (A)   Distribution, display, and sale of smoking products or smoking
paraphernalia on any public right-of-way, city park, or any city-owned building
or facility is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Cigarette vending machines.
      (1)   Subject to the defenses provided in division (2) below, it shall be
unlawful for any business owner, manager, or employee in control of cigarette
vending machines within the city to intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, or
with criminal negligence allow the display or use of any cigarette vending
machine upon any property within the city.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under the provisions of this
division (B) that:
         (a)   The cigarette vending machine is situated in a premise where
entry by any person under 18 years of age is prohibited by law, or
         (b)   The cigarette vending machine is located in a workplace with the
permission of the employer, provided that the employer has no persons under the
age of 18 years employed at the workplace, and further provided that the
cigarette vending machine is situated at a location within the workplace to
which persons other than those employed at the workplace are not permitted to
have access.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places within the city,
including, but not limited to, the following places:
   (A)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries, and museums;
   (B)   Areas available to and customarily used by the general public inside
of businesses and non-profit entities patronized by the public, including but
not limited to, professional offices, banks, laundromats, hotels, and motels;
   (C)   Bars;
   (D)   Billiard halls;
   (E)   Bingo facilities;
   (F)   Comedy clubs;
   (G)   Convention and/or civic center facilities;
   (H)   Elevators;
   (I)   Facilities primarily used for exhibiting a motion picture, stage,
drama, lecture, musical recital, or other similar performance;
   (J)   Gaming facilities;
   (K)   Health care facilities;
   (L)   Childcare and adult day care facilities;
   (M)   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other
multiple-unit residential facilities;
   (N)   Polling places;
   (O)   Public transportation facilities, including buses and taxicabs, and
ticket, boarding, and waiting areas of public transit depots;
   (P)   Restaurants;
   (Q)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and other common-use
areas;
   (R)   Retail stores;
   (S)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including
school buildings, under the control of an agency, board, commission, committee
or council of the city or a political subdivision of the state when a public
meeting is in progress, to the extent the place is subject to the jurisdiction
of the city;
   (T)   Shopping malls; and
   (U)   Sports arenas, stadiums, and gymnasiums, including enclosed areas in
outdoor arenas.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed areas within places of
employment. This includes common work areas, auditoriums, classrooms,
conference and meeting rooms, elevators, hallways, medical facilities,
cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs, restrooms, and all other enclosed areas.
   (B)   This prohibition on smoking shall be communicated by employers to all
existing employees by effective date of this chapter, and to all prospective
employees upon their application for employment.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.05 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN OUTDOOR AREAS.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in the following outdoor places:
   (A)   Within a distance of 25 feet outside entrances, operable windows, and
ventilation system of enclosed areas where smoking is prohibited so as to
ensure tobacco smoke does not enter those areas;
   (B)   Zoo facilities and grounds;
   (C)   In, and within 50 feet of, all outdoor sports arenas, stadiums, and
amphitheaters; and
   (D)   In, and within 25 feet of, all outdoor public transportation stations,
platforms, and shelters within the city limits.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.06 LOCATIONS WHERE SMOKING NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other section of this chapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
134.02 through
134.05:
   (A)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms; provided, however, that not more than 25% of rooms rented to
guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated;
   (B)   Outdoor areas except those owned by the city or listed specifically in
the provisions in §
134.05;
   (C)   Outdoor seating areas of restaurants and bars designated as smoking
areas in accordance with §
134.09(D);
   (D)   Private clubs in existence as of the effective date of this chapter,
and as defined in §
134.01, including Veterans of Foreign War (VFW) and American Legion posts;
   (E)   Private residences, except if used as a child care, adult day care, or
health care facility;
   (F)   Retail tobacco stores; provided, however, that smoke from these places
does not infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions
of this chapter; and
   (G)   Tobacco product manufacturing facilities.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 134.07 PERSONS UNDER AGE OF 18 YEARS IN SMOKING AREA.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, persons under the age
of 18 years may be admitted in establishments, facilities, or other areas that
allow smoking in accordance with the provisions of this chapter if such persons
are accompanied by their parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 134.08 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NONSMOKING.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an owner, operator,
manager, or other person in control of an establishment, facility, or outdoor
area may declare that entire establishment, facility, or outdoor area as a
nonsmoking place. Smoking shall be prohibited in any place in which a sign
conforming to the requirements of §§
134.09(A) and (B) of this chapter is posted.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 134.09 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   "No Smoking" signs or the international "No Smoking" symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this chapter, by the owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of
that place.
   (B)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia shall be removed from any
area where smoking is prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator,
manager, or other person having control of the area.
   (D)   Areas which are exempt from the provisions of §§
134.03 and
134.04 of this chapter shall post a standard sign at each entrance, to be
designated by the city informing potential patrons that the area allows
smoking, and warning patrons of the negative health effects associated with
secondhand smoke.
   (E)   The city will provide the signs required under division (D) of this
section to the owners or operators required to comply with that division at a
reasonable and appropriate cost.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.10 RETALIATION PROHIBITED.
   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any manner
retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer because
that employee, applicant, or customer exercises any rights afforded by this
chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department, Fire Marshal, and City Code Enforcement
Officer/Health Inspector, in addition to any authority having jurisdiction to
enforce city ordinances, shall have authority to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
initiate enforcement with the Police Department.
   (C)   The Police Department, Fire Marshal and City Code Enforcement Officer/
Health Inspector, or their designees shall, while an establishment is
undergoing otherwise mandated inspections, inspect for compliance with this
chapter.
   (D)   An owner, manager, operator, or employee of an establishment regulated
by this chapter shall inform persons violating this chapter of the appropriate
provisions thereof.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an employee or
private citizen may bring legal action to enforce this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
section, the Police Department, Fire Department, City Inspector, or their
designees, or any person aggrieved by the failure of the owner, operator,
manager, or other person in control of a public place or a place of employment
to comply with the provisions of this chapter may apply for injunctive relief
to enforce those provisions in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 134.12 ADDITIONAL FEES FOR RESTAURANTS.
   A reasonable fee to cover staff costs associated with inspections and
program expenses may be charged by the city to the owner or operator of a
restaurant in order to establish that outdoor seating areas of restaurants
designated as smoking areas are so designated in accordance with §
134.09(D) of this chapter.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 134.13 GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY COOPERATION.
   The City Manager shall annually request other governmental and educational
agencies having facilities within the city to establish local operating
procedures in cooperation and compliance with this chapter. This includes
urging all federal, state, county, and school district agencies to update their
existing smoking control regulations to be consistent with the current health
findings regarding secondhand smoke.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 134.14 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where
it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of §
134.02 is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor crime, and upon conviction, shall
be punishable by a fine of not more than $2,000.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, agent, employer, or employee who
intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, or with criminal negligence, violates any
provision of this chapter for which no other penalty is provided shall, upon
conviction, be fined an amount not more than $200; provided, however, that in
the event a defendant has previously been convicted under this chapter, such
defendant shall be fined an amount not more than $500 for a second conviction
hereunder, and shall be fined an amount not more than $2,000 for a third
conviction hereunder and for each conviction thereafter. Each day that a
violation is committed or permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-10-2018)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING CODE
         
151.   ASBESTOS SURVEY
         
152.   FLOOD CONTROL
         
153.   MOBILE HOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
         
154.   STREET NUMBERING; MOVING OF BUILDINGS
         
155.   MASTER PLAN
         
156.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
157.   SIGNS
         
158.   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
         
159.   HISTORIC DISTRICT AND LANDMARK ZONING
         
160.   ZONING
         
161.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
         
162.   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
Adoption of Codes
   
150.01   International Building Code, International Residential Code,
International Fire Prevention Code, International Plumbing Code, International
Mechanical Code, International Fuel Gas Code, International Existing Building
Code, International Property Maintenance Code, and International Energy
Conservation Code
   
150.02   National Electrical Code
   
150.03   Windstorm Code
   
150.04   Officials and departments responsible
   
150.05   Board of Appeals
   
150.06   Permit, plan review and inspection fee schedule
   
150.07   Homeowner requirements
   
150.08   Criminal penalty
   
150.09   Civil penalty
   
150.10   Civil enforcement
Dangerous Buildings and Structures
   
150.20   Findings of fact
   
150.21   Definitions
   
150.22   Uniform Code adoption
   
150.23   Unsafe buildings declared a nuisance
   
150.24   Duties of Building Official
   
150.25   Notice to repair
   
150.26   Sufficiency of notice
   
150.27   Duties of Board of Adjustment
   
150.28   Appeal to City Manager
   
150.29   Assessment of expenses and penalties
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Building Construction, see Charter,
Article XII, Section
12.04
ADOPTION OF CODES
§ 150.01 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE, INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE,
INTERNATIONAL FIRE PREVENTION CODE, INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE, INTERNATIONAL
MECHANICAL CODE, INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE, INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING
CODE, INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE, AND INTERNATIONAL ENERGY
CONSERVATION CODE.
   The city hereby adopts by reference, as though they were fully set forth
herein, the following International Codes and their appendixes as promulgated
by the International Building Code Council:
   (A)   International Building Code, 2018 Edition;
   (B)   International Residential Code, 2018 Edition;
   (C)   International Fire Code, 2018 Edition;
   (D)   International Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition;
   (E)   International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition;
   (F)   International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition;
   (G)   International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition;
   (H)   International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition; and
   (I)   International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition.
(Ord. 673, passed 2-12-2008; Ord. 673-B, passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 673-D, passed
6-13-2023)
§ 150.02 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The city hereby adopts by reference, as though it were fully set forth
herein, the following National Electrical Code and its appendix as promulgated
by the National Fire Protection Association: National Electrical Code, 2020
Edition.
(Ord. 673, passed 2-12-2008; Ord. 673-B, passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 673-D, passed
6-13-2023)
§ 150.03 WINDSTORM CODE.
   With the 2006 Texas Revisions as set forth by the Texas Department of
Insurance and Texas Windstorm Insurance Association together with all future
editions, revisions and supplements thereto. Hereinafter said code shall be
referred to as the Windstorm Code. The Windstorm Code is hereby adopted as a
part of the building code for the city. The same rules and regulations as
printed in any copy of the Windstorm Code shall be admitted into evidence with
the same force and effects as the rules and regulations included in other
portions of this chapter without order or further proof.
   (A)   Conflicts. The interpretations of the Windstorm Code by the City
Building Official shall be final and conclusive, except that in the event any
provisions of said code conflicts with the provision in the 2012 International
Building Code and 2012 Residential Code, adopted in §
150.01, the more stringent provision shall prevail.
   (B)   Windstorm standards.
      (1)   General. For the purpose of establishing minimum standards for the
construction of windstorm resistant buildings, all the new construction within
the corporate city limits and the city's extraterritorial jurisdiction shall
comply with the windstorm speed standards set forth by the Texas Department of
Insurance for the city.
      (2)   Compliance. All new construction, repairs, and additions commencing
after adoption of this section shall comply with the Windstorm Code. No
exceptions are permitted except those specifically set forth by the Texas
Department of Insurance.
      (3)   Roof repair exception. Roof repairs of less than 100 square feet of
the total roof under repair shall not be required under the provisions of this
section.
   (C)   Building permit requirements.
      (1)   Windstorm plan information required. The owner or contractor
seeking a building permit shall submit plans and sections showing the methods
of wind bracing and construction details to resist wind speeds specified in the
Windstorm Code and as referenced in the 2012 International Building Code and
2012 International Residential Code.
      (2)   Certificate of compliance required. A certificate of compliance,
form WPI-8, issued by the Texas Department of Insurance or form WPI-8C, issued
by the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association is evidence of compliance with
this chapter, and is required before issuance of a certificate of occupancy. At
the Building Official’s discretion, the TDI form WPI-2 may be accepted when
signed and sealed by a TDI-approved engineer.
   (D)   Inspections required. Only inspectors employed or approved by the
Texas Department of Insurance or Texas Registered Professional Engineers may be
used to inspect for compliance with this chapter. Unless the Building Official
and Building Inspectors employed by the city as inspectors are approved by the
Texas Department of Insurance, the Building Official and Building Inspectors
employed by the city will not certify compliance with this section, but may
notify the Texas Department of Insurance if any suspected violations are
observed during the normal course of other inspections.
   (E)   Fees.In addition to any building permit fees required by this section,
an additional fee may be implemented as per windstorm certified inspector's
fees.
(Ord. 673-B, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 150.04 OFFICIALS AND DEPARTMENTS RESPONSIBLE.
   In the Codes adopted herein, when reference is made to the duties of a
certain official or department named therein, that person or department
designated by the city having duties corresponding to that certain named
official or department shall be the city official and city department
responsible for performing and enforcing the provisions of the Codes.
(Ord. 673, passed 2-12-2008; Ord. 673-B, passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 673-D, passed
6-13-2023)
§ 150.05 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The City Planning and Zoning Commission is designated as the Board of
Appeals as contemplated by the Codes adopted herein.
(Ord. 673, passed 2-12-2008; Ord. 673-B, passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 673-D, passed
6-13-2023)
§ 150.06 PERMIT, PLAN REVIEW AND INSPECTION FEE SCHEDULE.
   The city hereby adopts the following fee schedule for the services provided
for herein:
 Total Valuation Fee
             Total Valuation                                                                Fee
             $1,000 and less                                                                $60 plus
             Over $1,000                                                                    $10 for each
                                                                                            thousand
             Area (sq. ft.) Alternative Method
                                                                                            $0.65 per sq.
                                                                                            ft.
             New residential occupied space                                                 $0.45 per sq.
Building:    New residential un-occupied space                                              ft.
             New commercial occupied space                                                  $0.85 per sq.
             New commercial un-occupied space                                               ft.
                                                                                            $0.55 per sq.
                                                                                            ft.
             New construction:                                                               
             Residential or Commercial (Fee + $75 inspection fee)
             Accessory/storage building                                                     $100
             For one and two-family                                                      25% of permit
Plan Review:    residential structures                                                   fee
             For other structures                                                           50% of permit
                                                                                            fee
             New/repair residential
                driveway                                                                 $75
Driveways:   Repair commercial                                                              $100 plus
                driveway/parking lot                                                     $20 per
                   $1,000 and less                                                    household
                   Over $1,000
             Permit issuance fee                                                            $75
             Temporary pole                                                                 $50
             New meter loop                                                                 $50
Electrical:  Working clearance                                                              $50
                (when requested)                                                         $40
             Reconnect meter service:                                                       $50
                For 1-20 circuits                                                        $3
                For each circuit over 20, per circuit
             Permit issuance fee                                                            $75 plus
             For each fixture, floor drain or                                               $5
                trap                                                                     $50
Plumbing:    For each house sewer                                                           $100
             For each grease trap                                                           $40
             For vacuum breakers or backflow protective devices, one to five                $35
             Water heater
Sprinkler:   Residential lawn                                                               $75 plus
             Commercial lawn                                                                $150
             Permit issuance fee                                                            $75 plus
Gas:         For one to five outlets                                                        $25
             For each additional outlet                                                     $5
             Permit issuance fee                                                            $75 plus
Mechanical:  For the first $1,000 of evaluation                                             $20
             For each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof                                 $5
             $1,000 and less                                                                $75 plus
Signs:       Over $1,000                                                                    $20 per
                                                                                            thousand
Swimming     Private pool                                                                   $200
Pool:        Public/commercial pool                                                         $400
Fence:       New/repair                                                                     $50
                                                                                            Based on 3rd
Energy                                                                                      party
Conservation For residential buildings                                                      inspectors
Inspection:  For commercial buildings                                                       fees +
                                                                                            administration
                                                                                            fee
House Moving                                                                               $200
Fee:
Demolition:                                                                                $200
Curb Break:                                                                                $50
Certificate
of                                                                                         $100
Occupancy:
Home
Occupation                                                                                 $50
Fee:
(Annually)
Re-
Inspection
Fee:                                                                                       $75
(Per
Inspection)
             General Construction
                Contractor initial registration
             Continuing registration                                                        $100
                (annually)                                                               $50
Contractors: For other Contractors, initial                                                 $50
                fee                                                                      $25
             Continuing registration
                (annually)
             All contractors shall provide proof of an acceptable General Liability Insurance or a good
             and sufficient “Licenses and Permit Bond” in the sum of $10,000.
Planning and                                                                               $200
Zoning:
Board of                                                                                   $200
Adjustments:
             Preliminary Plats   per plat
                      per lot                                                      $500
             Final Plats       per plat                                               $10
                      per lot                                                      $950
             For each multi-family,                                                         $15
Plats:          commercial or industrial area not subdivided into lots, both Preliminary $600
             and Final plats shall be:                                                      Preliminary
                - Per acre per plat                                                      plats per
                - Plus engineering fees and                                              acre: $600
                   any other additional expenses                                      Final plats
             For HUD Code Manufactured                                                      per acre: $900
                Home and Recreational Vehicle Parks:
 
(Ord. 673, passed 2-12-2008; Res. 11-10-2015-02, passed 11-10-2015; Ord. 673-A,
passed 11-10- 2015; Ord. 673-B, passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 673-D, passed 6-13-
2023)
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Chapter 96
§ 150.07 HOMEOWNER REQUIREMENTS.
   Homeowners may perform electrical, plumbing and mechanical installation and
repairs to their existing residence. However, in the event that any permitted
work fails two consecutive inspections, the homeowner shall be required to
obtain the services of a licensed contractor to complete the permitted work.
(Ord. 673, passed 2-12-2008; Ord. 673-B, passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 673-D, passed
6-13-2023)
§ 150.08 CRIMINAL PENALTY.
   Any person, owner, firm, corporation or contractor violating any provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty and upon conviction thereof shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $2,000 for all violations involving fire
safety, or public health and sanitation and shall be fined not more than $500
for all other violations of this chapter. Each day or any portion thereof
during which any violation of this chapter occurs or continues shall be deemed
a separate offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable as herein
provided.
(Ord. 673-B, passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 673-D, passed 6-13-2023)
§ 150.09 CIVIL PENALTY.
   If any person, owner, firm, corporation or contractor commencing work
without a permit as required by this chapter shall be assessed the permit and a
penalty of 100% of the permit for which a stop work order was issued by the
Building Official. This penalty will be assessed at the time the permit is
being issued.
   If any person, owner, firm, corporation or contractor commencing work
without a permit as required by this chapter shall be assessed the permit and a
penalty of 100% of the permit for which a stop work order was issued by the
Building Official. This penalty will be assessed at the time the permit is
being issued.
(Ord. 673-B, passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 673-D, passed 6-13-2023)
§ 150.10 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to the criminal penalties and other remedial provisions provided
in the Code and by state law, the City Attorney or his or her designee may
enforce the provisions of the Code and this subchapter through any and all
civil remedies available. In the event, persons against whom enforcement is
sought and against whom a civil remedy is granted, shall also be liable for
damages, court costs, attorney’s fees and all costs and expenses reasonably
related to the civil enforcement action.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-3-2002; Ord. 673, passed 2-12-2008; Ord. 673-B, passed 12-
12-2017; Ord. 673-D, passed 6-13-2023)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
§ 150.20 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The City Commission recognizes the need to regulate and control
unsafe, dangerous, dilapidated and substandard buildings within the city in
order to preserve and protect the public health and safety and preserve
property values.
   (B)   The International Code Council published the Uniform Code for the
Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1997 Edition (the Code).
   (C)   The City Commission adopts the Code to provide regulations outlining
minimum criteria for all permanent commercial and residential buildings erected
within the city, to provide procedures for the repair or demolition of unsafe,
dangerous and substandard buildings; to provide for efficiency and compliance
with all applicable statutory requirements; to provide interested property
owners with an opportunity for voluntary compliance.
   (D)   It has been determined that adoption of the Code, together with
certain deletions, additions and amendments thereto, is in the best interest of
the health, safety and welfare of the citizens, and will more adequately
protect life and property from fire and other hazards incident to the
construction, alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of
buildings, structures and premises.
   (E)   The findings and recitations set out in divisions (A) through (D)
above are found to be true and correct and are hereby adopted by the City
Commission and made a part hereof for all purposes as findings of fact.
(Ord. 408B, passed 6-23-2009)
§ 150.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The City Building Inspector or a person employed,
appointed or designated by the City Manager for purposes of making inspections,
sending notices and otherwise enforcing the provisions of this subchapter.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING or UNSAFE BUILDING. Any structure or building located
within the incorporated limits of the city that is within the definition of
DANGEROUS BUILDING or UNSAFE BUILDING as defined in the Code, that is:
      (1)   In a state or condition of repair or disrepair that all or any of
the following conditions exist:
         (a)   Walls or other vertical structural members list, lean or buckle;
         (b)   Damage or deterioration exists to the extent that the building
is unsafe;
         (c)   Loads on floors or roofs are improperly distributed or the
floors or roofs are of insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purposes used;
         (d)   Damage by fire, wind or other cause has rendered the building or
structure dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general health and welfare
of the occupants or the people of the city;
         (e)   The building or structure is so dilapidated, substandard,
decayed, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise lacking in the amenities essential to
decent living or use that the same is unfit for human habitation or occupancy,
or is likely to cause sickness, disease or injury or otherwise to constitute a
detriment to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of those persons
assembled, working, or living therein or is a hazard to the public health,
safety and welfare;
         (f)   Light, air and sanitation facilities are inadequate to protect
the health, morals, safety or general welfare of persons who assemble, work or
live therein;
         (g)   Stairways, fire escapes and other facilities of egress in case
of fire or panic are inadequate; and
         (h)   Parts or appendages of the building or structure are so attached
that they are likely to fall and injure persons or property.
      (2)   Dilapidated, substandard or unfit for human habitation and a hazard
to the public health, safety and welfare of the city’s residents;
      (3)   Regardless of its structural condition, unoccupied by its owners,
lessees or other invitees and is unsecured from unauthorized entry to the
extent that it could be entered or used by vagrants or other uninvited persons
as a place of harborage or could be entered or used by children; or
      (4)   Boarded up, fenced or otherwise secured in any manner if:
         (a)   The building constitutes a danger to the public even though
secured from entry;
         (b)   The means used to secure the building are inadequate to prevent
unauthorized entry or use of the building to the extent it could be entered or
used by vagrants or other uninvited persons as a place of harborage or could be
entered or used by children; or
         (c) Defined as a dangerous or unsafe building by the Code.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTIES. The owner, occupant or person in custody of the
building or structure, and any mortgagee or lien holder, as identified or
listed on the current tax rolls of the Cameron Appraisal District for the
property, together with any additional person or interest, if any, shown in the
current records of the city applicable to the property.
(Ord. 408B, passed 6-23-2009)
§ 150.22 UNIFORM CODE ADOPTION.
   The Code, a copy of which has this day been exhibited to and approved by the
City Commission of the city, and copies of which are on file in the offices of
the City Secretary, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be the
Unsafe Building Abatement Code of the city for the regulation, vacation,
removal, repair or demolition of unsafe buildings in a timely and legal manner
in the city.
(Ord. 408B, passed 6-23-2009)
§ 150.23 UNSAFE BUILDINGS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit the
existence of any unsafe building in the city; and it shall be unlawful for any
person to permit same to remain in that condition.
   (B)   All unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be public nuisances and
shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance
with the procedures provided in this subchapter.
   (C)   The Building Official shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 408B, passed 6-23-2009) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24 DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official shall inspect, or cause to be inspected, every
building, or portion thereof, reported to be unsafe. If the building or any
portion thereof is determined to be unsafe, the Building Official shall give
the responsible parties notice in accordance with the requirements set forth in
the Code and in compliance with §§
150.25 and
150.26 of this subchapter. The Building Official shall further:
   (A)   Inspect or cause to be inspected, when necessary any building or
structure within the incorporated limits of the city including public
buildings, schools, halls, churches, theaters, hotels, tenements or apartments,
multi-family residences, single-family residences, garages, warehouses and
other commercial and industrial structures of any nature whatsoever for the
purpose of determining whether any conditions exist which render the places a
dangerous building as defined herein;
   (B)   Inspect any building, wall or structure about which complaints have
been filed by any person to the effect that a building wall or structure is or
may be existing in violation of this subchapter;
   (C)   Report to the Board of Adjustment any noncompliance with the minimum
standards set forth in this subchapter. The Building Official shall obtain from
the Secretary of the Board of Adjustment a hearing date for a public hearing by
the Board of Adjustment on any structure believed to be a dangerous building
and shall provide the Secretary of the Board of Adjustment with copies of the
written notice to persons with interests in the property as provided for in §
150.26 hereof;
   (D)   Appear at all hearings conducted by the Board of Adjustment and
testify as to the conditions of dangerous buildings within the city;
   (E)   Place a notice on all dangerous buildings reading as follows:
This building has been found to be a dangerous building by the City of Port
Isabel Building Official. This notice is to remain on this building until it is
repaired, vacated, or demolished in accordance with the notice which has been
given to the owner(s), occupant(s) and person(s) with interests in the property
as shown by the records of the Cameron Appraisal District. It is unlawful to
remove this notice until the notice is complied with.
   (F)   Perform the other requirements with respect to notification of public
hearings as are set forth more specifically in this subchapter.
(Ord. 408B, passed 6-23-2009)
§ 150.25 NOTICE TO REPAIR.
   Should the Building Official determine that any building or structure within
the incorporated limits of the city is a dangerous building or unsafe building
he or she shall cause written notification to be sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the owner and all other persons having an interest in the
building after a diligent effort has been made to identify each owner,
mortgagee and lien holder. The notice shall:
   (A)   Contain a description of the building or structure deemed unsafe and
its location;
   (B)   Contain a statement of the particulars which make the building or
structure a dangerous building;
   (C)   Include notice of the date and time of a public hearing before the
Board of Adjustment to determine whether the building complies with the
standards set out in this subchapter;
   (D)   Include a statement that the owner, lien holder, mortgagee or persons
with a legal interest in the building will be required to submit at the hearing
proof of the scope of any work that may be required to comply with the
subchapter and the amount of time it will take to reasonably perform the work;
and
   (E)   Be served upon the responsible parties as set out in this subchapter.
(Ord. 408B, passed 6-23-2009)
§ 150.26 SUFFICIENCY OF NOTICE.
   Notwithstanding any other term or provision of this subchapter or the Code,
notice given pursuant to this subchapter shall be sufficient and deemed
properly served upon the responsible parties if a copy thereof is:
   (A)   Served upon him or her personally;
   (B)   Sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known
address of the person as shown on the records of the Cameron Appraisal
District; and
   (C)   Posted in a conspicuous place in or about the building affected by the
notice.
(Ord. 408B, passed 6-23-2009)
§ 150.27 DUTIES OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Adjustment shall:
   (A)   Schedule and hold a public hearing and hear testimony from the
Building Official, the owner and other persons having an interest in the
dangerous building, and any person desiring to present factual evidence
relevant to the unsafe building. The testimony shall relate to the
determination of the question of whether the building or structure in question
is a dangerous building and the scope of any work that may be required to
comply with this subchapter and the amount of time it will take to reasonably
perform the work. The owner or a person having an interest in the dangerous
building shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate the scope of any work
that may be required to comply with this subchapter and the time it will take
to reasonably perform the work;
   (B)   Upon conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Adjustment shall
determine by majority vote whether the building or structure in question is a
dangerous building. Upon a determination that the building or structure in
question constitutes a dangerous building, the Board of Adjustment shall issue
an order:
      (1)   Containing an identification of the building and the property on
which it is located;
      (2)   Making written findings of the violations of the minimum standards
that are present at the building;
      (3)   Requiring the owner and persons having an interest in the building
to repair, vacate or demolish the building within 30 days from the issuance of
the order, unless the owner or a person with an interest in the building
establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be performed within
30 days, in which instance the Board of Adjustment shall specify a reasonable
time for the completion of the work; and
      (4)   Containing a statement that the city will vacate, secure, remove or
demolish the dangerous building and relocate the occupants of the building if
the ordered action is not taken within the time specified by the Board of
Adjustment.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall deliver a copy of the order by hand
delivery or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner and all
persons having an interest in the property, as the persons appear on the rolls
of the Cameron Appraisal District, and in the official records of the city
regarding the building, including all identifiable mortgagees and lien holders
as soon as is practicable after the hearing;
   (D)   If the Board of Adjustment allows the owner or a person with an
interest in the dangerous building more than 30 days to repair, remove or
demolish the building, the Board of Adjustment in its written order shall
establish specific time schedules for the commencement and performance of the
work and shall require the owner or person to secure the property in a
reasonable manner from unauthorized entry while the work is being performed.
The securing of the property shall be in a manner found to be acceptable by the
City Building Official;
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may not allow the owner or person with an
interest in the dangerous building more than 90 days to repair, remove or
demolish the building or fully perform all work required to comply with the
written order unless the owner or person:
      (1)   Submits a detailed plan and time schedule for the work at the
hearing; and
      (2)   Establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be
completed within 90 days because of the scope and complexity of the work.
   (F)   If the Board of Adjustment allows the owner or person with an interest
in the dangerous building more than 90 days to complete any part of the work
required to repair, remove or demolish the building, the Board of Adjustment
shall require the owner or person to regularly submit progress reports to Board
of Adjustment to demonstrate that the owner or person has complied with the
time schedules established for commencement and performance of the work. The
written order may require that the owner or person with an interest in the
building appear before the City Building Official to demonstrate compliance
with the time schedules;
   (G)   In the event the owner or a person with an interest in a dangerous
building fails to comply with the order within the time specified therein,
absent appeal to the City Manager, the city may, at any time after the
expiration of 45 days from the date a copy of the final decision of the Board
of Adjustment is mailed to each known owner, lien holder or mortgagee cause any
occupants of the dangerous building to be relocated, and may cause the
dangerous building to be secured, removed or demolished at the city’s expense.
The city may assess the expenses on and the city has a lien against, unless it
is a homestead as protected by the State Constitution, the property on which
the dangerous building was located. The lien is extinguished if the property
owner or a person having an interest in the building reimburses the city for
the expenses. The lien arises and attaches to the property at the time the
notice of the lien is recorded and indexed in the office of the County Clerk.
The notice of lien must contain the name and address of the owner of the
dangerous building if that information can be determined by a diligent effort,
a legal description of the real property on which the building was located, the
amount of expenses incurred by the city, and the balance due. The lien is a
privileged lien subordinate only to tax liens and all previously recorded bona
fide mortgage liens attached to the real property; and
   (H)   In addition to the authority set forth in division (G) above, after
the expiration of the time allotted in the order for the repair, removal or
demolition of a dangerous building, the city may repair the building at its
expense and assess the expenses on the land on which the building stands or to
which it is attached. The repairs contemplated by this section may only be
accomplished to the extent necessary to bring the building into compliance with
the minimum standards established by this subchapter, and to the extent the
repairs do not exceed minimum housing standards. This section shall be
applicable only to residential buildings with ten or fewer dwelling units. The
city shall follow the procedures set forth in division (G) above for filing a
lien on the property on which the building is located.
(Ord. 408B, passed 6-23-2009)
§ 150.28 APPEAL TO CITY MANAGER.
   Any responsible party that is aggrieved by the decision of the Board of
Adjustment may appeal the decision to the City Manager within ten days from the
date of the decision appealed from. In the event, the City Manager shall set a
time and date for hearing the appeal and hold the hearing within 45 days from
the date of the appeal.
   (A)   The purpose of the public hearing of the appeal shall be to determine
whether or not the building is an unsafe building or a dangerous building in
accordance with the standards set forth in §
150.21 and to uphold, reverse or modify the decision of the Board of
Adjustment.
   (B)   The matter shall be set for public hearing before the City Manager at
the earliest practicable date and notice of the hearing shall be served on the
responsible parties, each known mortgagee and lien holder, and the Building
Official not less than ten days prior to date of the hearing. All interested
persons shall have the opportunity to be heard and may introduce evidence to
the City Manager for his or her consideration.
   (C)   After the public hearing the City Manager shall make findings and
orders as he or she shall deem appropriate.
   (D)   After the public hearing, if a building is found in violation of
standards set out in §
150.21 of this subchapter, the City Manager may order that the decision of the
Board of Adjustment be affirmed, reversed or modified and, in the latter
instance, that the building be vacated, secured, repaired, removed or
demolished by the owner within a reasonable time. The City Manager also may
order that the occupants be relocated within a reasonable time. The City
Secretary shall mail to each identified owner, mortgagee and lien holder a
notice containing:
      (1)   An identification and address of the building and the property on
which it is located;
      (2)   A description of the violation of the code of ordinances (if any)
that is found by the City Manager to be present at the building; and
      (3)    A statement that the municipality will vacate, secure, remove,
repair or demolish the building or relocate the occupants of the building if
the ordered action is not taken within a reasonable time, or that the city will
take no action.
   (E)   As an alternative to the procedure prescribed by division (D)
described above the City Manager shall make an effort to contact each mortgagee
and lien holder before conducting the public hearing and shall give them a
notice of and an opportunity to comment at the hearing. If the city proceeds
under this division, the order issued by the City Manager shall specify a
reasonable time for the building to be vacated, secured, repaired, removed or
demolished by the responsible party and an additional reasonable time for the
ordered action to be taken by any of the mortgagees or lien holders in the
event the responsible party fails to comply with the order within the time
provided for action by the responsible party. Under this division, the city is
not required to furnish any notice to a mortgagee or lien holder other than a
copy of the order in the event the responsible party fails to timely take the
ordered action.
   (F)   If the building is not vacated, secured, repaired, removed or
demolished or the occupants are not relocated within the allotted time, the
city may vacate, secure, remove, repair or demolish the building or relocate
the occupants at its own expense.
   (G)   If the city incurs expenses under division (F) above, the city may
assess the expenses on the property and the city has a lien against the
property, unless it is a homestead as protected by the State Constitution, on
which the building was or is located. The lien is extinguished if the property
owner or another person having an interest in the legal or equitable title to
the property reimburses the city for the expenses. The lien arises and attaches
to the property at the time the notice of the lien is recorded and indexed in
the office of the County Clerk. The notice must contain the name and address of
the owner if that information can be determined by a reasonable effort, a legal
description of the real property on which the building was or is located, the
amount of expenses incurred by the city and the balance due.
   (H)   If the notice is given and the opportunity to repair, remove or
demolish the building is afforded to each mortgagee and the lien holder as
provided in divisions (D) or (E) above, the lien is a privileged lien
subordinate only to tax liens and all previously recorded bona fide mortgage
liens attached to the real property to which the city’s lien attaches.
(Ord. 408B, passed 6-23-2009)
§ 150.29 ASSESSMENT OF EXPENSES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   If an appeal has been made to the City Manager by any interested
party, and if the City Manager has held a hearing pursuant to §
150.28(B) and the time allotted for the repair, removal or demolition of a
building under §
150.28(D) or (E) has expired, then the City Manager may, in addition to the
authority granted under Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code Chapter 214 and §
150.28 of this subchapter:
      (1)   Order the repair of the building at the city’s expense and assess
the expenses on the land on which the building stands or to which it is
attached;
      (2)   Assess a civil penalty against the responsible party for failure to
repair, remove or demolish the building; and
      (3)   The City Building Official shall invite at least two or more
building contractors to make estimates pertaining to the needed repair, removal
or demolition of a building. The Building Official shall cause to be made an
assessment of expenses or civil penalty based on the estimates. The Building
Official shall endeavor to minimize the expenses of any building repairs,
removal or demolition order pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   The city may repair a building under division (A) above only to the
extent necessary to bring the building into compliance with the minimum
standards of the city and only if the building is a residential building with
ten or fewer dwelling units. The repairs may not improve the building to the
extent that the building exceeds minimum standards prescribed by the city.
   (C)   The city shall impose a lien against the land on which the building
stands or stood, unless it is a homestead as protected by the State
Constitution, to secure the payment of the repair, removal or demolition
expenses or the civil penalty. Promptly after the imposition of the lien, the
city shall file for record, in recordable form in the office of the County
Clerk, a written notice of the imposition of the lien. The notice shall contain
a legal description of the land.
   (D)   The city’s lien to secure the payment of a civil penalty or the costs
of repairs, removal or demolition is inferior to any previously recorded bona
fide mortgage lien attached to the real property to which the city’s lien
attaches if the mortgage lien was filed for record in the office of the County
Clerk before the date the civil penalty is assessed or the repair, removal or
demolition is begun by the city. The city’s lien is superior to all other
previously recorded judgment liens.
   (E)   Any civil penalty or other assessment imposed under this section
accrues interest at the rate of 10% a year from the date of the assessment
until paid in full.
   (F)   In any judicial proceeding regarding enforcement of the city’s rights
under this section, the prevailing party is entitled to recover reasonable
attorney’s fees as otherwise provided by statute.
   (G)   A lien acquired under this section by the city for repair expenses may
not be foreclosed if the property on which the repairs were made is occupied as
a residential homestead by a person 65 years of age or older.
(Ord. 408B, passed 6-23-2009)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Dangerous buildings and structures.
      (1)   The owner of any unsafe building or dangerous building who shall
fail to comply with any notice or order to repair, vacate or demolish the
building or structure, the notice or order given by the authority of the Board
of Adjustment, or the City Manager, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   An occupant or lessee in possession of any unsafe building or
dangerous building who fails to comply with any notice or order to vacate the
building and fails to repair the building in accordance with an order given by
the City Manager shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   Any person removing the notice of a dangerous building as provided
for in §
150.24(E) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (4)   The violation of any provision of §§
150.20 through
150.29 shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor offense punishable by a fine not
exceeding $2,000. Each day a violation of §§
150.20 through
150.29 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 408B, passed 6-23-2009)
CHAPTER 151: ASBESTOS SURVEY
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Survey required
   
151.03   Survey not required
   
151.04   City required to perform survey
   
151.05   If previous survey was performed
   
151.06   Conducted and cost
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASBESTOS SURVEY. An inspection of a building or facility to determine the
location, quantity and condition of asbestos containing material therein by
taking samples for analysis or by visual inspection.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. All other buildings which are not defined herein as
residential buildings.
   DEMOLITION. Operations in which load-bearing structural members of a
building are wrecked or removed.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, trust,
foundation, governmental subdivision or agency, or any other entity recognized
by law as the subject of rights and duties whether operated for profit or not
for profit.
   RENOVATION. Additions to or alterations of the interior surfaces of a
building for purposes of restoration by removal, repairing and rebuilding.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A structure primarily used or capable of being used
for human habitation.
(Ord. 585, passed 12-30-1997)
§ 151.02 SURVEY REQUIRED.
   Prior to issuance of a permit to any person for the renovation or demolition
of any commercial building within the city limits, an asbestos survey shall be
conducted.
(Ord. 585, passed 12-30-1997) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 SURVEY NOT REQUIRED.
   An asbestos survey shall not be required prior to the issuance of a permit
for the renovation or demolition of a residential building unless the
renovation or demolition involves more than two contiguous residential building
sites which are part of a commercial or public project such as an urban renewal
project, a highway construction project, a project to develop a shopping center
or mall, the construction of an industrial facility or other large private
development.
(Ord. 585, passed 12-30-1997)
§ 151.04 CITY REQUIRED TO PERFORM SURVEY.
   The Building Official of the city shall cause to be performed an asbestos
survey on both residential buildings and commercial buildings under either of
the following events, to wit:
   (A)   Prior to the sale or lease of any building by the city to any person;
and
   (B)   Prior to the sale or lease of any building by any person to the city.
(Ord. 585, passed 12-30-1997)
§ 151.05 IF PREVIOUS SURVEY WAS PERFORMED.
   An asbestos survey shall not be required under §§
151.02,
151.03 or
151.04 if the residential building, commercial building or building to be sold
or leased has been previously surveyed and satisfactory evidence of the survey
is provided to or in the possession of the Building Official.
(Ord. 585, passed 12-30-1997)
§ 151.06 CONDUCTED AND COST.
   Any asbestos survey required herein shall be conducted by an asbestos
inspector licensed by the state. The cost of the asbestos survey under §§
151.02 and
151.03 shall be borne by the person seeking the permit. The cost of the
asbestos survey under §
151.04 shall be borne by the seller or lessor.
(Ord. 585, passed 12-30-1997)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall fail to have performed an asbestos survey as defined
herein under the circumstances when required herein under §§
151.02 and
151.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished
by a fine of not more that $1,000.
(Ord. 585, passed 12-30-1997)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Purpose
   
152.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
152.08   Establishment of development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.26   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.27   Permit procedures
   
152.28   Variance procedures
Provision for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.43   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH zones)
   
152.44   Coastal high hazard areas
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State has in Tex. Water Code § 16.315 delegated the
responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City Commission does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood loses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.03 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of floodprone areas in a manner as to minimize future flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve the uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH or VO zone on a community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% chance or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. The flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet
flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the  Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After
detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the
FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE
or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.
      (1)   A nonbasement building:
         (a)   Built, in the case of a building in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in Zones V1-30, VE or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means
of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of
the water; and
         (b)   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity
of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
      (2)   In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D,
ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of flood waters.
      (3)   In the case of Zones V1-30, VE or V, ELEVATED BUILDING also
includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of ELEVATED BUILDING, even
though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the breakaway
walls met the standards of § 60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program
regulations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. See definition of flooding.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes state or
local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY). The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to the structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to the
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides
and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the primary frontal
dune occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a relatively
steep slope to a relatively mild slope.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (for other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. No. 97-348)),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A VARIANCE,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. (For full requirements see § 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3),
(e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until the time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   The chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, “The Flood
Insurance Study for City of Port Isabel” dated June 1, 1983, with accompanying
Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps (FIRM and FBFM) and
any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part
of this chapter.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations.
   (B)   On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood heights
may be increased by man-made or natural causes.
   (C)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within the areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages.
   (D)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the community
or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Building Official of the city is hereby appointed the Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R. (National Flood Insurance Program
Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.26 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review permit applications to determine whether proposed building
sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is required;
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is State Natural Resource Conservation Commission
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
the notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
152.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.44;
   (I)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community; and
   (J)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, § 65.12, of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community’s FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided that
the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.27 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
152.41(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all information in accordance with §
152.26(A).
   (B)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.28 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and render
judgement on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgement on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal the decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
152.27(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach conditions to the granting of variances as
it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this chapter. See §
152.03.
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (J) are met above;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
PROVISION FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
152.07,
152.26(H) or
152.42(C), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division as proposed in §
152.27(A)(1) is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division. A record of the certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation so that the lowest floor of the manufactured
home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored
to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and
lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
this section be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the
base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A1-
30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements of §
152.27(A), and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes
in division (D) above of this section.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
152.02,
152.03 and
152.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of §§
152.08,
152.27 and
152.40 through
152.44 of this chapter.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §
152.07 or §
152.26(H) of this chapter.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.43 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. The flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified).
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified); or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in §
152.27(A)(1), are satisfied.
   (D)   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.44 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.07 are areas designated as Coastal High Hazard Areas (Zones V1-30, VE and/
or V). These areas have special flood hazards associated with high velocity
waters from tidal surges and hurricane wave wash; therefore, in addition to
meeting all provisions outlined in this chapter, the following provisions must
also apply:
   (A)   Obtain the elevation (in relation to mean seal level) of the bottom of
the lowest structural member of the lowest floor (excluding pilings and
columns) of all new and substantially improved structures, and whether or not
the structures contain a basement. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain
a record of all information;
   (B)   All new construction shall be located landward of the reach of mean
high tide;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated on
pilings and columns so that:
      (1)   The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest
floor (excluding the pilings or columns) is elevated to or above the base flood
level; and
      (2)   The pile or column foundation and structure attached thereto is
anchored to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement due to the effects
of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building components. Water
loading values used shall be those associated with the base flood. Wind loading
values used shall be those required by applicable state or local building
standards. A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop or
review the structural design, specifications and plans for the construction,
and shall certify that the design and methods of construction to be used are in
accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions of
divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this section.
   (D)   (1)   Provide that all new construction and substantial improvements
have the space below the lowest floor either free of obstruction or constructed
with non-supporting breakaway walls, open wood lattice-work or insect screening
intended to collapse under wind and water loads without causing collapse,
displacement or other structural damage to the elevated portion of the building
or supporting foundation system.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, a breakaway wall shall have a
design safe loading resistance of not less than ten and no more than 20 pounds
per square foot. Use of breakaway walls which exceed a design safe loading
resistance of 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required
by local or state codes) may be permitted only if a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that the designs proposed meet the following
conditions:
         (a)   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood; and
         (b)   The elevated portion of the building and supporting foundation
system shall not be subject to collapse, displacement or other structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all
building components (structural and nonstructural). Water loading values used
shall be those associated with the base flood. Wind loading values used shall
be those required by applicable state or local building standards. The enclosed
space shall be useable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage. The space shall not be used for human habitation.
   (E)   Prohibit the use of fill or structural support of buildings;
   (F)   Prohibit man-made alteration of sand dunes and mangrove stands which
increase potential flood damage;
   (G)   Manufactured homes. Require that manufactured homes placed or
substantially improved within Zone V1-30, V and VE on the community’s FIRM on
sites:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood,
meet the standards of divisions (A) through (F) of this section and that
manufactured homes placed or substantially improved on other sites in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision within Zones V1-30, V and VE on
the community’s FIRM meet the requirements of §
152.41(D) of this chapter.
   (H)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones V1-
30, V and VE on the community’s FIRM either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the requirements in §
152.08 of this chapter and divisions (A) through (F) of this section.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter, or any provision
of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000. Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-27-1999)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Licenses
   
153.03   Physical requirements of mobile homes and/or travel homes
   
153.04   Operating of mobile home and/or travel trailer parks
   
153.05   Facilities and services
   
153.06   Application of chapter
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or similar portable structure having been
originally constructed with wheels, designed for use as a conveyance upon
highways, and having no original foundation other than wheels, jacks or
skirting and so designed or constructed as to permit occupancy for dwelling or
sleeping purposes.
   MOBILE HOME OR TRAVEL TRAILER LOT. Any plot of ground within a mobile home
and/or travel trailer park designed for the accommodation of one mobile home,
travel trailer/ motorized home or motorized camper.
   MOBILE HOME OR TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS. Any plot of ground upon which ten or
more spaces for mobile homes or travel trailers, occupied for dwelling or
sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether or not a charge is made
for those accommodations.
   TRAVEL TRAILERS, MOTORIZED HOMES or MOTORIZED CAMPERS. All vehicles with
permanent wheels that are readily mobile from place to place, used primarily
for travel and recreational purposes and usually not permanently or semi-
permanently located in one particular site for use as a residence.
(Ord. 529, passed 4-9-1991)
§ 153.02 LICENSES.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or
operate, within the limits of the city, any mobile home and/or travel trailer
park unless the person shall first obtain a city license therefor. The license
is subject to being renewed in each fiscal year of the city.
   (B)   Application for license.
      (1)   Applications for a mobile home and/or travel trailer park license
shall be filed with the City Secretary for consideration by the City Commission
and upon approval by the City Commission/City Zoning Commission and/or City
Adjustment Board, the City Secretary shall issue a license. Applications shall
be in writing, signed by the applicant and contain the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The location and legal description of the mobile home and/or
travel trailer park;
         (c)   A complete plan of the park showing compliance with §
153.03(A) of this chapter prepared by a licensed State Civil Engineer or land
surveyor;
         (d)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed with the mobile home and/or travel trailer
park;
         (e)   Any further information as may be requested by the City
Commission to enable it to determine if the mobile home and/or travel trailer
park will comply with the legal requirements; and
         (f)   Dedication of public streets, alleys, public easements for
utilities and drainage shall be optional with the City Commission depending on
the needs of the subdivided and surrounding area.
      (2)   The application and all accompanying plans and specifications shall
be filed in triplicate. The City Secretary, City Health Officer and City
Planning and Zoning Commission shall investigate the applicant, and inspect the
proposed plans and specifications. Each of them shall then make a report to the
City Commission and include therein their recommendation relative to the
issuance of a license. If the mobile home and/or travel trailer park will be in
compliance with all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable
ordinances or statutes, the City Commission may approve the application, and,
in the case of proposed parks, make the approval contingent upon the completion
of the park according to the plans and specifications submitted with the
application. The City Secretary, at the direction of the City Commission, shall
issue the license.
   (C)   Mobile home and/or travel trailers outside licensed parks. It shall be
unlawful for any person to locate or maintain any mobile home or travel trailer
in any place in the city other than a duly licensed and lawful mobile home and/
or travel trailer park, except as set forth in §
153.06 hereof.
   (D)   Revocation of license. The City Commission may revoke any license
issued under this chapter in case any of the provisions hereof are violated.
However, before the license may be revoked, the City Commission must give ten
days notice to the holder of the license and hold a hearing thereon. After the
license has been revoked, the license may be reissued if the reasons for the
revocation have been duly corrected.
   (E)   Transfer and duration. Upon application for a transfer of the license,
the City Commission may issue a transfer upon payment of the transfer fee. The
original license and transfer thereof may be granted at any time during the
year and shall expire at the end of the fiscal year of the city, unless
previously revoked or terminated.
   (F)   Posting of license. The license certificate shall be conspicuously
posted in the office of or on the premises of the mobile home and/or travel
trailer park at all times.
(Ord. 529, passed 4-9-1991)
§ 153.03 PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS OF MOBILE HOMES AND/OR TRAVEL HOMES.
   (A)   Mobile home and/or travel trailer parks plan. Mobile home and/or
travel trailer parks plans shall conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   The park shall be located on a well drained site properly graded to
ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
      (2)   To accommodate a mobile home over 40 feet in length, the trailer
lot shall be not less than 3,150 square feet in area.
      (3)   To accommodate a mobile home trailer under 32 feet in length, the
trailer lot shall not be less than 2,250 square feet in area.
      (4)   In the travel trailer section of mobile home park, the lots shall
be not less than 1,250 square feet in area.
      (5)   Each mobile home lot shall have connections to a city’s sanitary
sewerage and water system and be approved by the City Secretary and Building
Inspector.
      (6)   Travel trailer lots where the trailers or motorized homes are to be
located on the premises for periods of short duration (no more than three days)
shall not require sanitary sewerage systems; however, the designated park must
have adequate restroom facilities available for travel trailers and motorized
homes, and sewage dump stations for travel trailers.
      (7)   The minimum distance between trailers shall be 12 feet and no
trailer shall be located closer than ten feet to a court property line.
Trailers end to end shall have a minimum distance of ten feet between them.
      (8)   Park owners shall provide fire hydrants, at their expense, to meet
city requirements.
      (9)   No mobile home or trailer park will be constructed with less than
ten units. Ten units or more constitute a trailer or mobile home park.
      (10)   (a)   The park must have adequate entrance and collector streets
and also driveways for each lot and one and one-half paved parking space 18
inches long by eight feet wide.
         (b)   All streets and drives in the trailer court shall be paved with
a seal coat, asphaltic concrete or portland cement concrete pavement.
         (c)   All entrance streets and other collector streets with guest
parking on both sides shall have a minimum width of 36 feet. Minor streets with
parking on one side shall have a minimum width of 28 feet. The above minimum
widths may be reduced by two feet if an adjacent sidewalk is provided.
      (11)   Parking pads are mandatory for these lots used by travel trailers,
motorized homes or campers. The parking pad for travel trailers, motorized
homes or campers will conform to the following: paved with a seal coat,
asphaltic concrete or portland cement concrete pavement.
   (B)   Location. Mobile home and/or trailer parks may be located only in
conformity with the comprehensive zoning regulations of the city, and in
addition to the requirements contained therein, each boundary of the park must
be at least 200 feet from any permanent residential building located outside
the park, unless a two-thirds majority of the owners of property in the area
within the 200 feet consent in writing to the establishment of the park
provided, however, that the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
mobile home and/or travel trailer parks already in existence and operation at
the time of the passage of this chapter, and the existing and operating parks
shall be treated as nonconforming uses insofar as the requirements of this
section are concerned.
   (C)   Maintenance. Every person owning or operating a mobile home and/or
trailer park shall maintain the park and any facilities, fixtures and permanent
equipment in connection therewith, in a clean and sanitary condition and shall
maintain the equipment in a state of good repair.
   (D)   Additional construction. It shall be unlawful for any person operating
a mobile home and/or travel trailer park or occupying a mobile home or travel
trailer to construct or permit to be constructed in the park, or in connection
with the mobile home or travel trailer park any additional structure, building
or shelter in connection with or attached to a mobile home or attached to a
mobile home or travel trailer, except, however, awnings of canvas or metal,
suitably constructed, may be attached to the mobile homes or travel trailers as
well as portable prefabricated temporary rooms, for the express purpose of
increasing mobile home or travel trailer living area, commonly called cabana
which meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Of metal only, fire resistive, double wall, mechanical joint panels
(no welded joints between panels permitted);
      (2)   Strength of materials and structure to meet minimum standards of
the City Building Code;
      (3)   Capable of being dismantled when moved;
      (4)   The rooms shall be completely dismantled and removed from the site
at the time the mobile home or travel trailer to which it is accessory is
moved;
      (5)   Finish and appearance to be as near the same as possible to the
mobile home or travel trailer to which it is accessory;
      (6)   Increases the length of the mobile home or travel trailer to which
it is accessory; and
      (7)   Only one room per mobile home or travel trailer shall be permitted.
   (E)   Office building. Each mobile home and/or travel trailer park shall be
provided with a building to be known as the office in which shall be kept
copies of all records pertaining to the management and supervision of the park,
as well as all rules and regulations of the park, and the records, rules and
regulations to be available for inspection by law enforcement officers, public
health officials and other officials whose duties necessitates acquisition of
the information contained therein.
(Ord. 529, passed 4-9-1991) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 OPERATING OF MOBILE HOME AND/OR TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, his or her agent, representative or
manager, to prescribe rules and regulations for the management of the park; to
make adequate provisions for the enforcement of the rules; and to subscribe to
any and all subsequent rules and regulations which may be adopted for the
management of the park. Copies of all rules and regulations shall be furnished
to the City Commission. In addition thereto, it shall be the duty of the owner,
his or her agent, representative or management to comply strictly with the
following:
   (A)   Provide for regular inspection of the water and sanitary conveniences;
   (B)   Provide for the collection and removal of garbage and other waste
materials;
   (C)   Prohibit the placing or storage of unsightly material or vehicles of
any kind; and
   (D)   The installation, ownership, control, maintenance and operation of
single mobile home spaces, driveway, designated recreation area or areas (if
any) and all utility facilities, including garbage collection and disposal
shall be solely that of the owner, subdivider and/or operator, subject to the
general regulatory ordinances of the city applicable to the type of private
property. The ownership of public alleys and utility easements (if any) and the
ownership, maintenance and operation of the public utilities located thereon,
shall be that of the city and/or duly franchised utility agencies; provided,
that the cost of installation of the water, sewerage and drainage facilities
therein shall be shared by the owner, subdivider as follows: that portion or
portions of the utility facilities, if any, to be installed in alleys or
utility easements, if any, necessary to service and accommodate the mobile home
facility shall be borne by the owner/subdivider; and that portion or portions
thereof, if any, in excess of the size required for the subdivision shall be
borne by the owner the determination of the necessity of the excess utility
facilities to be solely that of city. In fulfilling garbage and trash
collection and disposal responsibilities within the mobile home facility, the
owner, subdivider or operator thereof shall arrange, provide and be responsible
for accumulation and depositing of the garbage and trash at a point or points
within the outer boundaries of the mobile home facility the point or points to
be within the service area so the city will have easy access to collection.
(Ord. 529, passed 4-9-1991)
§ 153.05 FACILITIES AND SERVICES.
   (A)   Water supply and sanitary sewer. All mobile homes shall be properly
connected to approved water, sewer and electrical systems.
   (B)   Fuel. Bottled gas for cooking purposes shall not be used at individual
mobile home or travel trailer lots and/or spaces unless the containers are
connected by copper or other suitable metal tubing. Bottled gas for travel
trailers and motorized homes and campers must be connected by copper or other
suitable metallic tubing. Bottled gas cylinders shall be securely fastened in
place. State and local regulations applicable to the handling of bottled gas
and fuel oil must be followed.
(Ord. 529, passed 4-9-1991) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall not apply to those trailer campers, motorized homes and
motorized campers owned by residents of the city and maintained by them at
their place of residence and not occupied or used by anyone as a regular place
of residence.
(Ord. 529, passed 4-9-1991)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating this chapter or any portion
thereof shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $10 nor more than $200 and each day that the violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense and punishable accordingly.
(Ord. 529, passed 4-9-1991)
CHAPTER 154: STREET NUMBERING; MOVING OF BUILDINGS
Section
Street Numbering
   
154.01   Lots numbered
   
154.02   Base lines
   
154.03   Numbering
   
154.04   Designation of streets
   
154.05   Fixing numbers
   
154.06   Style of number
   
154.07   Duty to affix number
Moving of Buildings
   
154.20   Prohibition
   
154.21   Permit
   
154.22   Requirements for permit
   
154.23   Fee
 
   
154.99   Penalty
STREET NUMBERING
§ 154.01 LOTS NUMBERED.
   All building and houses in the city limits abutting on any street or avenue
shall be numbered.
(Ord. 426, passed 4-9-1984) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.02 BASE LINES.
   Musina Street shall constitute the base line for all numbering on the
streets running approximately north and south, and Queen Isabella Boulevard
shall constitute the base line for all numbering on the streets running east
and west.
(Ord. 426, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 154.03 NUMBERING.
   Buildings or houses fronting streets from the east and fronting streets from
the south shall bear odd numbers in their last figure. Buildings or houses
fronting streets from the west and from the north shall bear even numbers in
their last figures. Buildings or houses fronting streets running north and
south shall be numbered from the base line, the numbers shall be 0 at the base
line and not to exceed the number 99 at the end of the first block either north
or south of the base line, 101 at the beginning and not to exceed the number
199 at the end of the second block, either north or south of the base line. The
system shall be followed in numbering all of the streets running north and
south in the city. Buildings and houses fronting streets running east and west
shall be numbered from the base line, the numbers shall be 0 at the base line
and not to exceed the number 99 at the end of the first block, either east or
west of the end of the second block, either east or west of the base line. The
system shall be followed in numbering all of the streets running east and west
in this city. Where streets intersect but do not cross, the numbers shall run
in each case to a street intersecting on both sides of the street being
numbered. Any block located upon streets which do not intersect the base lines
shall bear the 100 number of the corresponding block nearest the same location,
which does intersect the base line. In each block each 25 feet of frontage
shall be deemed the unit for determining the last figure of the number to be
used. From the corner of each block nearest its respective base line each 25
feet of frontage shall be given a number, except where lots vary from 25 feet
in width, the lots shall be numbered to conform to the size of the lot.
Fractions may be used if necessary to designate a building located on a
fractional part of a 25-foot frontage.
(Ord. 426, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 154.04 DESIGNATION OF STREETS.
   All lots or parts of lots, houses and buildings located on those portions of
any street extending north and south, and being north of the Queen Isabella
Boulevard base line shall be known and designated as “North” and all south of
the Queen Isabella Boulevard base line shall be known and designated as
“South”, and all located on all those portions of any street extending east and
west and being east of the Musina Street base line, shall be known and
designated “East” and all west of the Musina Street base line shall be known
and designated as “West”. The prefixes shall be placed before the proper name
of the street as “West             Street” or “North             Street”.
(Ord. 426, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 154.05 FIXING NUMBERS.
   In case of doubt or where a question arises as to the proper number to be
assigned to any lot or building, the City Manager shall decide the question and
fix the number of the lot or building.
(Ord. 426, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 154.06 STYLE OF NUMBER.
   The number plate, placed upon any building or house shall be metal or wood
or the number may be painted on the front of the building, door, post, transom
or other place. The number shall be at least three inches in height and be of a
material and consistency as to be easily seen from the street.
(Ord. 426, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 154.07 DUTY TO AFFIX NUMBER.
   If the owner or lessee of any building shall fail, refuse or neglect to
place the number, or replace it when necessary, the City Manager may cause a
notice to be personally served on the owner or lessee or mailed by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the owner or
lessee, ordering the owner or lessee to place or replace the number. The owner
or lessee shall comply with the notice within ten days from the date of service
by placing or replacing the number on his or her building or house.
(Ord. 426, passed 4-9-1984) Penalty, see §
154.99
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 154.20 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall move any structure within the city limits
without first obtaining a permit from the Building Department.
   (B)   Exception. Manufactured homes may be moved by State Department of
Transportation licensed movers under Tex. Revised Civil Statutes Title 116,
Article 6701 1/2.
(Ord. 162, passed 10-17-1955; Ord.162A, passed 3-11-1997) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.21 PERMIT.
   Before any permit shall be issued to any person for the moving of any
structure in the city, the person desiring the permit shall obtain written
approval from all companies owning overhead wires or cables which cross any
street, alley or public way or any part of same in the city over which the
house or building will pass.
(Ord. 162, passed 10-17-1955; Ord.162A, passed 3-11-1997)
§ 154.22 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT.
   Before any permit shall be issued to any person for the moving of any
structure across or along any street, alley or public way in the city, the
person desiring the permit shall execute, and deposit with the Building
Department, a bond with good and solvent sureties for a sum of not less than
$10,000, which shall be furnished to the Building Department at least 24 hours
before the time it is proposed to move the house or building.
(Ord. 162, passed 10-17-1955; Ord.162A, passed 3-11-1997)
§ 154.23 FEE.
   A fee of $50 shall be charged and collected by the Building Department
before the issuance of any permit for moving any structure exceeding 200 square
feet.
(Ord. 162, passed 10-17-1955; Ord.162A, passed 3-11-1997)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Street numbering. Anyone violating any of the provisions of §§
154.01 through
154.07 shall upon conviction be subject to a fine not exceeding $200.
   (B)   Moving of buildings. If any person shall violate the conditions set
forth by §§
154.20 through
154.23, the person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be punished by fine of not to exceed $200.
(Ord. 162, passed 10-17-1955; Ord.426, passed 4-9-1984; Ord. 162A, passed 3-11-
1997)
CHAPTER 155: MASTER PLAN
Section
Objectives
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Condition
   
155.03   Intent
   
155.04   Success
Characteristics
   
155.15   Geographic
   
155.16   Climatic
   
155.17   Topographic
   
155.18   General
   
155.19   Population and social characteristics
   
155.20   Economic
   
155.21   Aesthetic
   
155.22   Physical; existing conditions
   
155.23   Physical; neighborhood analysis
Future Land Use
   
155.35   General
   
155.36   Residential, single-family
   
155.37   Residential, two-family
   
155.38   Multi-family, hotel, motel, tourist
   
155.39   Public use and community facilities
   
155.40   Commercial
   
155.41   Industrial
Streets, Thoroughfares and Pedestrian Accessways
   
155.55   Purpose
   
155.56   Major street system
   
155.57   Minor street system
   
155.58   Pedestrian accessways
   
155.59   Parking
   
155.60   General provisions
OBJECTIVES
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Master Plan has been developed over the past two-year period by
the City Planning Commission for adoption by the City Commission to serve as a
guide to normal growth and to utilize to the utmost all the assets of the
community and the area.
   (B)   The purpose of the plan is:
      (1)   To stabilize, improve and enhance all land and its value in and
around the city and promote and recapture industrial, commercial and
residential development within protected boundaries;
      (2)   To encourage investment and sound speculation in the natural
resources of the community and the area;
      (3)   To establish adequate recreational and safe areas for our children,
adults and tourists, and to provide safe access ways for children traveling to
and from school;
      (4)   To provide normal and complete educational and civic facilities for
our residents;
      (5)   To alleviate traffic congestion by virtue of logical separation and
control of through and local traffic;
      (6)   To guide the city in its expenditures of tax funds through planned
expansion, services and facilities and thereby reduce unwarranted or ill-
advised improvement costs and avoid an undue tax load.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.02 CONDITION.
   The condition of the planning decisions is based on:
   (A)   The small size of the city and lack of complete legal powers in regard
to annexation;
   (B)   The insufficient bonding ability, the overburdening taxing under
present laws brought about because of underdevelopment;
   (C)   The inadequate code enforcement staff at the present time;
   (D)   The awareness that the smallest improvement might result in a major
change in the plan;
   (E)   The political climate, population and economic characteristics; and
   (F)   The genuine desire of all the citizens of the city to improve local
conditions.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.03 INTENT.
   The intent of the plan is:
   (A)   To provide an interim guide until a time as the city is able to
overcome its deficiencies;
   (B)   To be general in nature, allowing flexibility to meet and solve the
smallest problem without destroying the overall aims;
   (C)   To be changed, modified and continuously studied and improved as the
city grows and demands are made upon it; and
   (D)   To show local objectives in regard to development and controls, a
prerequisite for urban renewal aids and any sound private investment.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.04 SUCCESS.
   The success of the plan is dependent upon:
   (A)   Participation by the citizen:
      (1)   His or her understanding of the plan, its objectives, its problems;
      (2)   His or her continued support and suggestions; and
      (3)   His or her active interest in obtaining a better city in which to
live and rear his or her children and to provide a healthy climate for private
enterprise to exist.
   (B)   Participation by the governing body of the city through:
      (1)   Enforcement of fair and equitable codes and ordinances;
      (2)   Rapid and just review of objections and violations of the plan; and
      (3)   Continued long range view to the city’s growth in regard to the
promotion of the free citizen-private enterprise outlook.
   (C)   Participation of independent allied agencies such as the School Board,
Water District, Navigation District, and so forth, by means of:
      (1)   Support of the plan; and
      (2)   Close coordination of their programs with those of the city.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
CHARACTERISTICS
§ 155.15 GEOGRAPHIC.
   (A)   The city is located in Cameron County, State of Texas, approximately
ten miles north of the mouth of the Rio Grande River and on the inland side of
the Laguna Madre to the west of the Gulf of Mexico.
   (B)   The city is separated from the Gulf of Mexico by the Laguna Madre and
Padre Island, but is linked to Padre Island by the Port Isabel-Padre Island
Causeway and to the Gulf of Mexico by a deep water channel and the intracoastal
waterway.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.16 CLIMATIC.
   (A)   Temperature. With approximately 121 days with the temperature above 90
degrees and one day below 32 degrees. Wind speed average is 12 to 18 mph.
Precipitation averages 25 inches annually. Relative humidity varies from 60 at
12:30 p.m. to 90 at 6:30 a.m.
 
Normal Mean Low Mean High
72.6   61       85
 
   (B)   Weather. The weather in most part is ideal for outdoor activities
generally all year round with warm sunshiny days to cool breezy nights,
justifying emphasis on tourist, recreational and vacational attractions.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.17 TOPOGRAPHIC.
   (A)   The city is situated approximately at sea level on mixed loams and
sands, with a flat to low-rising mound characteristics. Normal drainage is
adequate in most part within the city and through proper engineering practices
is controlled in low lying areas.
   (B)   Areas outside and adjacent to the city limits do create some problems
in respect to standing water and blowing sand.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.18 GENERAL.
   Detailed writings and social-economic reports available in local and state
libraries and the publications of the United States Department of Commerce
reflect the general characteristics that influence the city, and
characteristics of a general nature that have been considered in this plan are
the regional potential of the Lower Rio Grande Valley; the fertile soils,
farming, citrus; the scenic and historical attractions; the potential National
Park on Padre Island; Old Mexico, tourism; oil and gas activities; water
resources; and the social-economic base. In addition, the city is directly
influenced by being a deepwater port and commercial and sportsmen’s fishing
headquarters. There is excellent fishing for tarpon and a wide variety of game
and edible fish in bays and on the open waters of the Gulf. A short distance to
the north of the city is the Laguna Atascosa National Wildlife Refuge, notable
for redheads and pintails.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.19 POPULATION AND SOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS.
   (A)   The present population is estimated at 4,500 inhabitants (1950:
2,372). Of this number, an estimated 73% are Latin American, 25% are Anglo-
American and 2% other. In addition at least 6% of the population are non-
citizens. The problems involved in a distribution are the social differences
and understanding, the income and educational level, the opportunities, the
political differences, each plays an important part in the planning
considerations.
   (B)   Because of the small size of the city, drastic changes can occur
through any new industry, shutting down of existing industry, development of
Padre Island, tourist trade and so forth. Therefore, no attempt was made to
base the plan on projected population (see potential) but rather to plan growth
from the promotional development approach.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.20 ECONOMIC.
   (A)   The city’s major sources of income are fishing, boat facilities and
repair, refining and tourist trade. For its size, the city has a very broad
economic base, but the smallest business decline becomes very major in respect
to individual income; therefore, even more diversification is needed. The area
has a good labor market and is isolated sufficiently to maintain full
employment if developed properly.
   (B)   The intent of the plan is to:
      (1)   Promote more allied or light industries to offset seasonal labor
demand;
      (2)   Encourage relocation of fixed income residents to the city;
      (3)   Encourage more high income individuals to establish summer retreats
and boating areas;
      (4)   Add more tourist attractions and facilities;
      (5)   Discourage strip-zoned marginal and substandard businesses and
promote complete and diversified shopping facilities; and
      (6)   Encourage the educated youth of the city to remain in the area.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.21 AESTHETIC.
   To attract better business, tourists and vacation residents and afford a
desirable place to live, an area must be orderly, wholesome and beautiful. To
this end the execution of the plan must not neglect beautification and must
encourage better, new architecture and upgrading of existing structures and
improvements.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.22 PHYSICAL; EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   (A)   See existing land use map.
   (B)   The existing conditions survey conducted in the spring of 1959
indicated the following approximate physical characteristics:
 
                                                  Adjusted % of Average Other
Land Use         Built Up Vacant Total % of Total Total         Cities Similar
                                                                Size
Streets, alleys                  128   21%        35%           28%
and ROWs
Residential land 55       71     126   22%        34%           39%
use
Motel-hotel      21       22     43    7.5%       11%           2%
multi-family
Commercial       9        19     28    4.5%       7%            7%
 
 
                                                Adjusted % of Average Other
Land Use       Built Up Vacant Total % of Total Total         Cities Similar
                                                              Size
Industrial and 131      109    240   41.5%      8%            8%
railroad
Public         1        6      7     1.5%       2%            9%
Schools        12       0      12    2%         3%            7%
Totals         229      227    584   100%       100%          100%
Note: Abnormal industrial acreage; therefore percentage calculations are
considered on normal percent of industrial use
 
   (C)   In addition to the existing conditions survey, the following general
factors are also present in the city. These factors play an important part in
many of the planning decisions:
      (1)   Large quantity of substandard dwellings in the city, brought about
in most part because of:
         (a)   The lack of home loan financing funds in the past or at present;
and
         (b)   Unstable land values.
      (2)   High concentration of substandard dwellings and population density
of 65 persons per acre in one area adjacent to industrial and commercial land;
      (3)   Mixed land use; e.g., industrial development next to schools, bare
adjacent to residences and children’s play areas;
      (4)   Unstable residential areas contain undesired vacant land with the
result that new growth is occurring at the perimeter of the city;
      (5)   Lack of protective devices to prevent encroachment of substandard
dwellings next to standard structures;
      (6)   Inadequate free or developed recreational areas for children or
adults;
      (7)   Unprotected and unsafe routes for children to and from school;
      (8)   Major traffic congestion due to inadequate sized streets and their
location in respect to use; e.g., through traffic to Padre Island must: travel
the same route that local in-town or tourist traffic must travel, congestion at
the toll bridge and long waiting lines, trucks traveling in residential areas
and by school grounds and the like; thereby discouraging the tourism from
shopping in the city but rather on Padre Island or prior to entering the
congested area;
      (9)   Undeveloped land of all classifications owned by people out of the
state, held for speculation only with no regard to the local interest. In most
part the land was obtained through inheritance and is held with the false
belief that oil lies under all land in the state;
      (10)   Excessive vacant land and land in non-taxable use; i.e. street
rights-of-ways;
      (11)   Default in obtaining tax returns on all land with the result of an
unequal tax burden on the local residents;
      (12)   No encouragement in respect to proper development of land outside
of the city, in part brought about by lack of legal control and/or a program of
development. Also, inadequate control of the land outside the city in regard to
soil erosion, sand control and pest control; and
      (13)   Lack of proper planning, controls, goals and public awareness
resulting in high cost of government in respect to actual return on public
facilities, streets, living conditions, health and educational facilities.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.23 PHYSICAL; NEIGHBORHOOD ANALYSIS.
   (A)   See map.
   (B)   In an attempt to develop a long range plan, the city and the
surrounding area was divided into planning units, based in part on separation
by land use, streets, railroad, waterways and so forth. Each area is analyzed
in respect to:
      (1)   Existing conditions, both physical and social;
      (2)   Inadequacies;
      (3)   Potential; and
      (4)   Procedures of accomplishment to be applied or tried, if needed, to
the area in an effort to carry out the aims and desires of the citizens of the
city.
   (C)   Planning units.
      (1)   Planning Unit 1.
         (a)   Characteristics. 
            1.   The area contains 35 residential standard structures, 21%
built up, the only FHA subdivision in the city, central high school and junior
high school facilities and water frontage.
            2.   The area is subject to substandard structure construction,
lacks recreational facilities and lacks adequate utilities and street
improvements.
         (b)   Considerations.
            1.   The area should remain totally single-family residential with
the exception of the inland water frontage property which should be two-family.
            2.   The street system and land should coincide with that of
Planning Units 2 and 3 with a possible loop and bridge on North Shore Drive to
complete the tourist route. All streets should be paved.
      (2)   Planning Unit 2.
         (a)   Characteristics. The area contains vacant land with both highway
and water frontage and is outside the city limits.
         (b)   Considerations.
            1.   The area should follow the same pattern as Unit 1.
            2.   No strip commercial should be allowed.
            3.   All facilities and improvements should be required to be
completed, when development starts.
      (3)   Planning Unit 3.
         (a)   Characteristics. Similar to Planning Unit 2.
         (b)   Considerations.
            1.   Same as Unit 2 in regard to residential and street
development.
            2.   A tourist part which will also act as a buffer zone should be
located on the east to protect the area from creeping expansion of the City of
Laguna Heights and substandard waterfront development.
      (4)   Planning Unit 4.
         (a)   Characteristics. Partially complete and inadequately developed,
only 1.2% built up, primarily a small boat harbor. This is potentially one of
the prime areas of the city.
         (b)   Considerations.
            1.   Develop area into a first class harbor, to encourage monied
interest to invest in a resort retreat.
            2.   Provide adequate paved streets and shoring.
            3.   Investigate federal assistance in dredging and maintenance of
waterway.
            4.   Zone land in a way as to provide the maximum protection and
diversification, for example:
               a.   Single-family use on a complete finger;
               b.   Multi-family and trailer areas; and
               c.   Small shopping facilities and tourist access to the water.
      (5)   Planning Unit 5.
         (a)   Characteristics.
            1.   Contains standard residential, commercial and tourist fishing
facilities.
            2.   Subdivided in an awkward layout with double frontage lots and
limited access to the water, without proper improvements, and also contains a
dead end major street.
         (b)   Considerations.
            1.   Provide for two-family, multi-family residential and light
commercial charter type fishing use.
            2.   Encourage the dedication of a street paralleling the water
front with 100 feet deep lots for commercial boat service. This street should
be a continuation of Champion Avenue to Island Avenue.
      (6)   Planning Unit 6.
         (a)   Characteristics.
            1.   Predominantly residential, 94% built up; some residences are
the finest and largest in the city. The area also contains multi-family units,
large marginal hotel, charter boat facilities and two semi-industrial boat
repair shops and a cemetery.
            2.   Contains adequate streets and utilities by virtue of being one
of the first areas of development in the city, although where the facilities do
not exist some marginal structures are present. Also dead end streets exist and
some property has inadequate access.
            3.   Tight control of land exists, with ownership in the hands of
the respective adjacent developed property owner; thereby allowing little
chance for substandard structures to be built in the unit.
            4.   Some prime buildable land exists on the water front but is
owned by the city with right of sale subject to the provisions of Ordinance 45,
requiring a referendum.
            5.   Excessive land in a nontaxable use: i.e., streets, waterfront
and so forth.
         (b)   Considerations.
            1.   Extend North Shore Drive, paralleling the waterfront to join
with Garcia Street; thereby complete a tourist loop street and bring into
existence approximately 50 ideally situated buildable sites, with the monetary
return being used, for park development, and so forth.
            2.   Encourage multi-family development adjacent to the Central
Business District or Planning Unit.
            3.   Beautify the cemetery and provide parking and landscaping.
            4.   Consider hotel reconversion to possible hospital, rest home or
similar type facility.
      (7)   Planning Unit 7.
         (a)   Characteristics.
            1.   Tourist, industrial and boating use, predominantly built up,
located on the channel and the intra-coastal canal.
            2.   Undeveloped park area.
         (b)   Considerations.
            1.   No change in use is contemplated other than the park area
which could be exchanged for another park location and right-of-way land for
the proposed thoroughfare route.
            2.   Separate truck route should be considered in any street and
thoroughfare plan.
      (8)   Planning Unit 8.
         (a)   Characteristics.
            1.   Central Business District, 50% built up.
            2.   Tourist attractions and civic offices.
            3.   Numerous choice lots in out-of-state ownership and held at too
high price for sale, coupled with separate ownership of 25-foot frontages which
hinders the attainment of adequate front footage, resulting in undevelopment.
            4.   Lack of a plan of development and aesthetic unit: i.e., no
off-street parking provided which has destroyed other Central Business
District, unattractive and cheaply constructed buildings with the exception of
a few new starts.
         (b)   Considerations. Through private local merchant endeavors and
civic encouragement promote the conversion of the area to a concentrated
shopping center, mall type, based on a plan developed by the merchants which
should include:
            1.   Unity in design;
            2.   Off-street parking;
            3.   Central tourist attractions such as the lighthouse,
development of the waterfront and the like;
            4.   Arcades and covered areas and landscaping;
            5.   Diversification of shopping facilities and goods sold to hold
shoppers in the area; and
            6.   Investigate all legal means of encouraging the development of
the vacant land.
      (9)   Planning Unit 9.
         (a)   Characteristics.
            1.   Predominantly residential, substandard dwelling units evenly
distributed through-out (approximately 22% of the total).
            2.   The area is 60% built up and excessive land is in street
rights-of-way and alleys.
            3.   Major public elementary school and parochial school located in
the area.
            4.   Complete utilities and 62% of the streets are paved.
            5.   The railroad main line terminates in the area. The line
services only two establishments; the remainder of the right-of-way is unused.
            6.   The area is without recreational facilities.
            7.   Blighting influences of tavern and industrial use flank the
area without adequate buffer zones.
         (b)   Considerations.
            1.   The area should remain residential, possibly two-family
designation, in an effort to relieve the high density of Planning Unit 11 and
provide sites at a moderate cost, for residential construction.
            2.   Two north-south collector streets should be designated and the
remainder closed, with one north-south street being exclusively a children’s
mall to school.
            3.   Encourage the purchase of the vacant tract and relocation of
the parochial school to this area, which is served by the mall.
            4.   Explore the possibility of purchase of the railroad right-of-
way and its conversion to multi-family and tourist facility use.
            5.   The unit is vitally affected by Units 10 and 11 and any
development should be correlated with the other units.
      (10)   Planning Unit 10.
         (a)   Characteristics.
            1.   Minor standard residential, commercial and motel facilities.
            2.   Traffic congestion by virtue of the causeway approach and the
major highway.
            3.   Undeveloped bay frontage and recreational land.
            4.   70% of the area is undeveloped.
         (b)   Considerations.
            1.   Designate the major street as a tourist route and reroute the
heavy through traffic through Planning Unit 11.
            2.   Redevelop the vacant land in uses of residential, motel, park
and tourist attractions.
            3.   Discourage uncontrolled commercial development and relocate
industrial uses that are preventing normal growth to occur.
            4.   The spoil bank area should be considered for recreational
facilities for the area south of the present railroad tracks.
      (11)   Planning Unit 11.
         (a)   Characteristics.
            1.   High density, substandard residential environment, including
taverns in the area.
            2.   Overcrowding of structures, subdivision of lots with 2,000
square feet per lot, excessive land use in streets and rights-of-way.
            3.   Lacks adequate utilities and paved streets.
            4.   Area has a derogatory name and is the prime slum area of the
city. The residents of area in most part desire to relocate, but because of
social or economic problems are prevented from doing so.
            5.   The area is adjacent to heavy industrial use.
         (b)   Considerations.
            1.   Conversion of the area to light industrial use with a separate
truck route through the area.
            2.   Through the relocation of the thoroughfare and rezoning of the
area to light industrial, the land values will rise and thereby the residents
will receive an advantage in resale of their property. In addition, the
clearance activities for the thoroughfare can be carried out for a public
purpose that benefits the whole community.
            3.   The city lacks adequate light industrial land adjacent to
water frontage. Many businesses now located unnecessarily on prime waterfront
land would relocate if adjacent land were available.
      (12)   Planning Unit 12.
         (a)   Characteristics. Industrial use.
         (b)   Considerations.
            1.   No change in use.
            2.   Continue Champion Avenue as a truck route to Port Road.
            3.   Consider, after the redevelopment of Unit 11, a truck bridge
across the channel to link South Shore Drive truck route with that of Port
Road.
      (13)   Planning Unit 13.
         (a)   Characteristics. Trailer park use.
         (b)   Considerations.
            1.   Encourage the development to upgrade to first class
accommodations.
            2.   Limit the use to motel, tourist, trailer park only.
      (14)   Planning Unit 14.
         (a)   Characteristics. Vacant is most part with strip commercial
structures. Prime highway frontage.
         (b)   Considerations. The land, because of its location and terrain,
presents one of the prime sites in the city, ideal for motel or trailer parks
or tourist use; therefore, it is suggested that consideration be given to only
multi-family, motel, trailer park; zoning and that no commercial, industrial or
single- or two-family residential uses be allowed until a definite pattern is
established or a realistic demand exists.
      (15)   Planning Unit 15.
         (a)   Characteristics.
            1.   Vacant property.
            2.   Residential or low-income public housing use is contemplated.
         (b)   Considerations. For residential and low-income public housing
use only.
      (16)   Planning Unit 16.
         (a)   Characteristics.
            1.   Undeveloped good acreage outside the city limits.
            2.   Adjacent to industrial use.
         (b)   Considerations.
            1.   Because of the abnormal amount of undeveloped industrial land
existing and the apparent potential residential reuse possibilities of the
area, it is recommended that the area be zoned single-family residential.
            2.   Because adequate tourist attractions are needed in the city
and a buffer is needed to separate residential from industrial for home loan
financing, it is suggested that a municipal golf course be considered. In
addition, the topography would be suitable for this type facility.
      (17)   Planning Unit 17.
         (a)   Characteristics. Vacant acreage with major highway frontage.
         (b)   Considerations. When and if the trend of development in the city
progressed according to anticipated plans and since the area would be a central
location served by major thoroughfares, the planning unit would be an ideal
location for a shopping center, ball park and continuations of the golf course;
i.e., shopping center and public use or tourist attractions.
      (18)   Planning Unit 18.
         (a)   Characteristics. Airport facilities and vacant acreage.
         (b)   Considerations.  
            1.   Continue to develop the airport into a first class light plane
facility. Ample protected area remains for possible high school site, stadium
and so forth.
            2.   Investigate possible federal assistance in upgrading the
airport facility.
      (19)   Planning Unit 19.
         (a)   Characteristics. Vacant acreage with highway frontage on one of
the approaches to the city.
         (b)   Considerations. Residential use only with a buffer park
established at the west and multi-family use adjacent to the Brownsville Road
and future shopping center.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
FUTURE LAND USE
§ 155.35 GENERAL.
   (A)   The land use plan was designed to be an interim guide and control
until the time as the city obtains sufficient growth and has a more diversified
and stabilized economic base.
   (B)   The land use as shown coupled with the community facilities envisions
a city in 1975 of approximately 12,000 population and 800 acres, with 20%
residential, 20% tourist facilities, 20% public, 10% commercial, 30% industrial
and an average density of 20 persons per acre.
   (C)   It is recognized that at present the city does not have the legal
powers of annexation or the control of land outside its city limits, but within
a short time this will be possible; therefore, through its influence in the
interim, the city can encourage growth in a normal and orderly pattern as
outlined in §§
155.36 through
155.41 below.
   (D)   It must be noted that the plan is general in nature and many major and
minor adjustments will and should be made as each case arises, or as the plan
is influenced by unforseen events; but it is believed, that the plan presents
the most ideal and economical use of land under normal present and future
conditions.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.36 RESIDENTIAL, SINGLE-FAMILY.
   (A)   Within the city limits. Along North Shore Drive; adjacent to the high
school; and Blocks 76 and 77, primarily locations of total standard residential
units with adjacent vacant areas so designated to cause a self contained unit.
   (B)   Outside city limits. Adjacent to the high school, in the immediate
vicinity, both north and south, of State Highway 100, and south of the railroad
tracks along the Bay front, and as shown on the north Fingers of the small boat
harbor.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.37 RESIDENTIAL, TWO-FAMILY.
   Within the city limits:
   (A)   In areas primarily in existing two-family use as shown; and
   (B)   In all the area south of the railroad tracks to South Shore Drive or
new major thoroughfare.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.38 MULTI-FAMILY, HOTEL, MOTEL, TOURIST.
   (A)   To recapture present and future tourist trade, adequate and ideal
locations should be designated for this use since this is a major economic and
actual characteristic of this community.
   (B)   In locations adjacent to tourist routes, easily accessible to boat and
shopping facilities, and on sites that are aesthetically suitable.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.39 PUBLIC USE AND COMMUNITY FACILITIES.
   In addition to the natural resources of the community, more than the typical
facilities should be provided to attract and hold the tourist, to encourage
retired families to permanently reside in the city and to provide suitable
recreational and educational facilities for the low income residents of the
city.
   (A)   In Planning Units 9 and 10, four parks designated to accommodate
children (age groups one to ten and ten to 15) and adults of the neighborhood
and to provide tourist boating and bathing facilities;
   (B)   In Planning Unit 8, tourist attractions should be provided with the
relocation of the City Hall but retention of the Fire Department to serve the
area.
   (C)   Parks are designated in Planning Units 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 19.
   (D)   In Planning Units 16 and 17, a city golf course and central park
playground are designated and will also serve as a buffer between industrial
and residential use. Also, because of its future central location, Planning
Unit 17 should serve as a community center area.
   (E)   Schools, airport and cemeteries are located with due regard to
existing conditions and future adjacent land use.
   (F)   Urban renewal activities should be carried out in the area as
outlined, and future low-income public housing should be located adjacent to
existing housing project area.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.40 COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Commercial areas are designated to provide a more stable, economically
healthy climate for business. Protective boundaries are established to prevent
loss in value of the respective use. Strip commercial zoning should be
eliminated. Competitive private enterprise promotions between locations should
be encouraged.
   (B)   Two primary shopping center locations are proposed; one in the Central
Business District for the trade area east of the channel and tourist business,
and one at the intersection of the Brownsville Road and State Highway 100
serving the area west of the channel. These are essentially served by
automobile with adequate parking provided.
   (C)   Four secondary shopping center locations are proposed, directed toward
the tourist or the immediate adjacent land use and each within one-fourth mile
walking distance of the anticipated trade.
   (D)   Boat and fishing enterprises are retained along the water frontage.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.41 INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Industrial development should be encouraged in the present partially
built up areas south of the railroad and along the channel, accessible via a
separate truck route.
   (B)   Light industrial is proposed in the area north of South Shore Drive
and south of the major thoroughfare.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
STREETS, THOROUGHFARES AND PEDESTRIAN ACCESSWAYS
§ 155.55 PURPOSE.
   The street and thoroughfare planning solutions were derived to accomplish
the following:
   (A)   Separate traffic; i.e., through traffic, tourist traffic, local in-
town traffic and industrial truck traffic;
   (B)   Eliminate congestion by providing an unrestricted route for through
traffic to and from Padre Island;
   (C)   Divert tourist traffic through the city without involvement with fast
through traffic;
   (D)   Provide local collector streets to service in-town travel without
interference with major traffic; and
   (E)   Provide separate and distinct pedestrian and children’s walkways.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.56 MAJOR STREET SYSTEM.
   The plan proposes to:
   (A)   Reroute State Highway 100 along the channel; providing direct access
to Padre Island, area for backing up of traffic at the toll bridge, and a truck
route adjacent to industrial land use. The highway should be a 100-foot right-
of-way, double divided street with limited and controlled access and adequate
street lighting and landscaping; and
   (B)   Retain the existing major streets and lighting for tourist traffic and
to provide an easy and direct access from the thoroughfare to this tourist
route. In addition, a highwater bridge should be constructed across the entry
to the Fingers to allow for a continuous loop street of North Shore Drive.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.57 MINOR STREET SYSTEM.
   (A)   Local traffic from the residential areas should be directed to
Longoria Street, Cisneros Street, Houston Street, Railroad Avenue, North Shore
Drive and Island Avenue which are designated as collector streets. All other
streets are considered as minor streets and should, if possible, feed into the
collector streets.
   (B)   South Shore Drive, Yturria Street and Port Road will be primarily for
truck route access to the industrial areas. A future bridge adjoining South
Shore Drive to Port Road across the Channel should be considered, thereby
eliminating the majority of truck traffic through the city,
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.58 PEDESTRIAN ACCESSWAYS.
   It is planned that separate routes from that of the automobile routes be
established for children’s walkways.
   (A)   Existing school. The plan proposes that Yturria Street from State
Highway 100 to South Shore Drive be closed in part and used as a children’s
mall and that Second Street be considered for use as a mall.
   (B)   Future schools. It is proposed that the city require children’s malls
be designed into any future subdivisions.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.59 PARKING.
   Adequate, paved off-street parking should be required to eliminate
congestion, dust, mud and so forth, and to enhance the city. See the zoning
regulations for requirements.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
§ 155.60 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Recapture and encourage industrial, tourist trade and motel facilities
to locate in a progressive and sound city. Consider non-tax devices and
benefits on major industries that provide a sizeable portion of the income of
the city’s resident.
   (B)   Provide those facilities as proposed in orderly fashion as the picture
stabilizes itself.
   (C)   Re-examine and update periodically this Master Plan.
   (D)   Devise a detailed public improvements program when present
indebtedness is at a level of actual improvement realization.
   (E)   Encourage adoption of adequate codes and ordinances in neighboring
communities to prevent mutual problems from arising at a future date.
   (F)   Encourage more local participation and understanding of the goals of
the city.
   (G)   Prepare detailed studies and plans in connection with hurricane
protection, seaweed control and spoil bank-sand blowing prevention.
   (H)   All maps, charts, schedules, figures and other data including, but not
limited to, the proposed ordinances which have been submitted in a separate
volume embodying the text of this Master Plan shall be considered a part of
this chapter as if the same were reproduced and set out herein.
(Ord. 218, passed 6-13-1960)
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Generally
   
156.002   Definitions
   
156.003   Purposes, authority and jurisdiction
Procedures
   
156.015   Pre-application conference
   
156.016   Application procedure
   
156.017   Preliminary plat
   
156.018   Final plat
General Plat Requirements
   
156.030   Streets
   
156.031   Alleys
   
156.032   Lots
   
156.033   Easements
   
156.034   Blocks
   
156.035   Mobile homes and recreational parks
   
156.036   Survey markers and lot markers
   
156.037   Park and recreational facilities
Improvements
   
156.050   Standard specifications and construction details
   
156.051   Paving
   
156.052   Sidewalks
   
156.053   Storm sewers
   
156.054   Water lines
   
156.055   Sanitary sewers
   
156.056   Utility service
   
156.057   Street lighting
   
156.058   As-built plans
Fees, Charges and Bond
   
156.070   Filing fees and charges
   
156.071   Maintenance bond
Other Requirements
   
156.085   Changes and variations
 
   
156.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Plates and images
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 GENERALLY.
   These regulations shall govern every person, firm, association or
corporation owning any tract of land within the city limits, who may hereafter
divide the same into two or more parts for the purpose of laying out any
subdivision of any tract of land or any addition to the city, or for laying out
suburban lots or building lots, or any lots, streets, waterway, alley parks or
other portions intended for public use, or the use of purchasers or owners of
lots fronting thereon or adjacent thereto.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS. Any office referred to by title, i.e., City
Manager, City Attorney, City Secretary, City Engineer, Director of Public Works
and the like shall be the person so retained in this position by the city, or
his or her duly authorized representative.
   ALLEY. A minor way used primarily for vehicular service to the rear or side
of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   ARTERIAL. A principle traffic arterial more or less continuous across the
city or areas adjacent thereto, and act as a principle connecting street with
state and interstate highways.
   BUILDING LINE. A line beyond which buildings must be set back from the
street or road right-of-way line or property line.
   BULKHEAD. A retaining wall along a waterfront.
   CITY or THE CITY. The City of Port Isabel, Texas.
   CITY COMMISSION. The duly elected governing body of the city.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which is continuous through several residential
districts and is intended as a connecting street between residential district
and thoroughfares, highways or business district.
   COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short residential street having but one vehicular access to
another street and terminated by a vehicular turn around.
   DEAD END STREETS. A street other than a cul-de-sac with only one outlet.
   EASEMENT. An area for restricted use on private property upon which any
public utility shall have the right to remove all or part of any buildings,
fences, trees, shrubs or other improvements or growths which in any way
endanger or interfere with the construction, maintenance or efficiency of its
respective systems on any of these EASEMENTS. Any public utility shall at all
times have the right of ingress and egress to and from and upon the EASEMENTS
for the purpose of constructing, reconstructing, inspecting, patrolling,
maintaining and adding to or removing all or part of its respective systems
without the necessity at any time of procuring the permission of anyone.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer, the city’s consulting engineers or the duly
authorized representatives.
   FINAL PLAT. Any plat of any lot, tract or parcel of land requested to be
recorded of record in the Deed Records of the county.
   MASTER PLAN. The comprehensive plan of the city and adjoining areas as
adopted by the City Commission and the City Planning and Zoning Commission,
including all its revision. This PLAN indicates the general location
recommended for various land uses, transportation routes, public and private
developments and improvements.
   MAY. Permissive.
   MOBILE HOMES AND RECREATIONAL PARKS. Areas for renting or leasing sites for
mobile home and recreational vehicles.
   PLAT. A map or chart of the subdivision. It shall include plan, plat or
replat, in both singular or plural.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. Any lot, tract or parcel of land that is not to be
recorded of record but is only a proposed division of land for review and study
by the city.
   REPLATTING. The resubdivision of any part or all of any block or blocks of a
previously platted subdivision, addition, lot or tract.
   RESIDENTIAL STREET. A street which is intended primarily to serve traffic
within a neighborhood or limited residential district and which is used
primarily for access to abutting properties.
   RESUBDIVISION. The division of an existing subdivision, together with any
changes of lot size therein, or with the relocation of any street lines.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS AND CODES. All improvements within the city shall be
in accordance with the standard specifications and codes, with all revisions,
as adopted by the city.
   STREET. A way for vehicular traffic whether designated a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place or
however otherwise designated.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines which delineate the
rights-of-way of a street.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
parts or lots for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or building
development or transfer of ownership, and shall include resubdivision,
   WATERWAY. A navigable body of water.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.003 PURPOSES, AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Under the authority of Tex. Revised Civil Statutes Article 974a, which
article is hereby made a part of these regulations, the Planning Commission of
the city does hereby adopt the following regulations to hereafter control the
subdivision of land within the corporate limits of the city and in the
unincorporated areas lying , within the extra territorial jurisdiction of the
city limits of the city in order to provide for the orderly development of the
areas and to secure adequate provisions for traffic, light, air, recreation,
transportation, water, drainage, sewage and other facilities.
   (B)   As used herein, the term SUBDIVISION shall mean the division of a
tract or parcel of land into two or more lots for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of sale or building or development, and shall include
subdivision. RESUBDIVISION shall mean any change in the division of any
existing subdivision or any change in lot size therein, or the relocation of
any street lines.
   (C)   Any owner of land located inside of or within one mile of the
corporate limits of the city wishing to subdivide the land shall submit to the
Planning Commission a plan of subdivision which shall conform to the minimum
requirements set forth in these regulations.
   (D)   No subdivision plat shall be filed or recorded and no lot in a
subdivision inside of or within one mile of the corporate limits of the city
shall be improved or sold, until the plat shall have been considered by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by the City Commission. The city
shall have the authority to prohibit the installation of public utilities in
unapproved subdivisions and to prohibit the issuance of building permits for
structures on lots in an unapproved subdivision.
   (E)   The requirements of this section do not apply to amending a plat of
property if such is done in accordance with Tex. Local Government Code §
212.016. For any such request to amend a plat of property within Port Isabel
that is made to the city in accordance with § 212.016, the provisions of Tex.
Local Government Code § 212.0065 are hereby adopted and the City Manager or
their designee is hereby delegated the authority and ability to approve
amendment of a plat of property as described in § 212.016.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 459-C, passed 4-13-2015) Penalty, see §
156.999
PROCEDURES
§ 156.015 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   Prior to the filing of a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall consult with
the City Manager or his or her duly authorized representative concerning the
ultimate land use of the proposed development, the suitability of the location
of the proposed subdivision, the most advantageous subdivision plan, the
arrangement of streets, alleys and lots, and the layout of utility lines and
availability of service from trunk mains. Conditional approval as to the
general land use of the proposed subdivision must be obtained from the City
Manager prior to the preparation of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.016 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All property not subdivided into lots, blocks and streets, or property
to be resubdivided, within the city or within its jurisdiction shall hereafter
be laid out under the direction of the Planning Commission, or in the absence
of the Commission by the City Commission, or subject to its approval, and no
other subdivision will be recognized by the city. Prior to the consideration of
the plat by the Planning Commission, the City Manager and his or her duly
authorized representatives shall check the plat and make recommendations.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, or agents of any owner, to lay
out, subdivide or plat any land into lots, blocks and streets within the city,
or to sell property therein, which has not been laid out, subdivided and
platted according to these regulations and the rules of the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   No officer or employee of the city shall perform, or cause to be
performed any work upon any streets or in any addition or subdivision of the
city, unless all requirements of these regulations have been complied with by
the owner of the addition or subdivision.
   (D)   The city hereby defines its policy to be that the city will withhold,
and it shall withhold, improvements of any nature whatsoever including the
maintenance of streets, issuance of building permits or furnishing of sewage
facilities and water service, until the subdivision plat has been approved by
the City Commission. No improvements shall be initiated nor any contracts
executed until this approval has been obtained.
   (E)   Any owner or developer of any lot, tract or parcel of land located
within the corporate limits of the city or within its jurisdiction who may wish
to effect a subdivision of land shall conform to the general procedure
described as follows.
      (1)   The subdivider shall prepare and submit to the City Planning and
Zoning Commission a preliminary plat for its study and recommendations. The
preliminary plat shall then be submitted to the City Commission for final
action.
      (2)   After approval of the preliminary plat by the City Commission, the
subdivider may then prepare a final plat of all or a portion of land included
in the preliminary plat for submission to and consideration by the Planning
Commission for final recommendations.
      (3)   Upon final action on any final plat by the City Planning and Zoning
Commission, the same shall be referred to the City Commission, and the City
Commission shall at its next succeeding meeting consider the final plat for
acceptance of the dedication of all public property therein set forth, provided
that the plat shall in all things fully comply with the terms and provisions of
this chapter.
      (4)   Upon acceptance of the plat and public properties by the City
Commission, the subdivider shall immediately cause the plat to be recorded in
the Deed Records of the county. The recording of this plat shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.017 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   An application, in writing, for the approval of the preliminary plat,
together with six prints, shall be filed with the City Manager at least 15
consecutive calendar days before the meeting of the Planning Commission, if the
plat is to be considered at the meeting. No plat will be considered by the city
until the prescribed filing fees have been paid.
   (B)   The plat shall be drawn to a scale of 100 feet to the inch, or larger,
and shall show:
      (1)   New features.
         (a)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
         (b)   North point, scale, date and approximate acreage of the proposed
subdivision;
         (c)   The names and addresses of the subdivider and of the engineer,
surveyor or planner;
         (d)   The tract designation and other description according to the
real estate records of the City or County Auditor and Recorder; also,
designation of the proposed uses of land within the subdivision;
         (e)   The boundary line (accurate in scale) of the tract to be
subdivided;
         (f)   Contours with intervals of two feet or less, referred to sea
level datum; and
         (g)   The names of adjacent subdivisions and/or the names of record
owners of adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land.
      (2)   Existing features.
         (a)   The location, widths and names of all existing or platted
streets or other public ways within or adjacent to the tract, existing
permanent buildings, railroad, rights-of-way and other important features, such
as abstract lines political subdivision or corporation lines and school
district boundaries;
         (b)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground
structures within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto with pipe sizes,
grades and locations indicated;
         (c)   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public use or
reserved in the deeds for the use of all property owners in the proposed
subdivision, together with the purpose of conditions or limitations of the
reservations, if any;
         (d)   The layout, names and widths of proposed streets, alleys and
easements; and
         (e)   The layout, numbers, setback lines and approximate dimensions of
proposed lots, blocks, parks and the like.
      (3)   Utilities. A plan of the proposed water and sanitary sewer lines
and proposed drainage facilities including drainage areas, location of lines,
inlets, culverts, bridges and calculated runoff and points of concentration.
      (4)   Location map. A location map of the proposed subdivision on a scale
of one inch to 2,000 feet showing existing and proposed streets and
thoroughfares covering an area at least one mile outside the proposed
subdivision.
      (5)   Cross-section. Cross-sections of proposed streets showing the width
of pavements, type of pavement and location and width of sidewalks.
      (6)   Approval block. The following notice shall be placed on the face of
each preliminary plat by the subdivider:
   Preliminary Plat for Review Purposes Only
         The following certificates shall be placed on the preliminary plat by
the subdivider:
         Recommended for Approval
                                                                                                                     
         Chairperson Planning and Zoning Commission   Date
            City of Port Isabel, Texas
         Approved for Preparation of Final Plat
                                                                                                                     
               Mayor               Date
            City of Port Isabel, Texas
      (7)   Submission.
         (a)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall be furnished with six
prints of the preliminary plat along with a letter of transmittal stating
briefly the type of streets, drainage facilities, sanitary facilities and water
system 15 days or more before the regular Planning and Zoning meeting.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall take action on any preliminary
plat submitted to them, in accordance with these regulations, within 30 days
after the plat is filed with the City Manager. The final action taken on the
preliminary plat by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Commission
will not constitute in any manner the acceptance of the subdivision nor the
improvements to be placed therein but will be merely an authorization to
proceed with the preparation of the final plat.
      (8)   Approval. The approval of the preliminary plat by the City
Commission shall be effective for a period of 180 days after the approval date,
unless reviewed by the City Commission in the light of new or significant
information, which would necessitate the revision of the preliminary plat, the
revision being subject to the same procedures as the original preliminary plat,
if a final plat for the subdivision, or a portion thereof, has not been
submitted, or if a change in requirements has not occurred which would affect
the preliminary plat, at the end of the 180 days after approval, then the City
Commission will declare the preliminary plat null and void, unless the
subdivider has requested and received an extension of time.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.018 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   After approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning and Zoning, a
final plat, prepared by a registered public surveyor or a registered engineer,
bearing his or her seal, shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission by filing in writing to the City Secretary.
   (B)   Six direct prints and two film positives of the final plat shall be
executed and filed with the City Secretary at least 15 consecutive calendar
days prior to the meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission at which action
is requested. No plat will be considered by the city until the prescribed
filing fees have been paid. The final plat may constitute all or only a portion
thereof and shall conform to all of the requirements of these regulations. If
final plats are submitted for approval by portions or sections of the proposed
subdivision, each portion or section shall carry the name of the entire
subdivision but shall bear a distinguishing letter, number or subtitle. Block
letters shall run consecutively throughout the entire subdivision, even though
the subdivision might be finally approved in sections. Upon receipt of the
required copies of the final plat, the detailed engineering plans and other
required data, which shall include the prescribed filing fee, individual cost
estimates for site improvements for water, sewer, storm sewer and paving
improvements consisting of the following information. Please note the attached
table as follows:
 
Item No. Description Unit Quantity Unit Price Cost
 
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission will either recommend approval or
disapproval of the final plat and forward it to the City Commission. Any action
taken by the City Commission shall be final, regardless of the previous action
by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (D)   The final plat shall be drawn on sheets measuring 22 or 24 inches by
35 inches to a scale of 100 feet to the inch (including the required plats for
filing with county), and shall show or be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   The boundary lines with accurate distances and bearings, a metes
and bounds description of the boundary (error of closure shall not exceed one
in 5,000), exact acreage, and the exact location and width of all existing or
recorded streets intersecting the boundary of the tract. One copy of the
traverse closure sheet shall be enclosed;
      (2)   True bearings and distances to the nearest established street
lines, official monuments or subdivision corner, which shall be accurately
described on the plat. Municipal, township, county or abstract lines shall be
accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distances and bearings;
      (3)   An accurate location of the subdivision in reference to the deed
records of the county which shall include the volume and page of the deed of
the property to be subdivided;
      (4)   The exact layout including:
         (a)   Street and/or alley names;
         (b)   The length of all arcs, radii, internal angles, points of
curvature, length and bearing of the tangents;
         (c)   All easement for right-of-way provided for public services or
utilities and any limitations of the easements; and
         (d)   All lot numbers and lines with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths and with bearings and angles to street and alley lines to the
nearest second.
      (5)   The accurate location, material and approximate size of all
monuments;
      (6)   The accurate outline description of all property which is offered
for dedication for public use, such as parks and the like, with the purpose
indicated thereon, and all property that may be served by deed covenant for the
common use of the property owners in the subdivision;
      (7)   Building setback lines;
      (8)   Private restrictions;
      (9)   Names of the proposed subdivision;
      (10)   Name and address of the subdivider;
      (11)   North point, scale and date;
      (12)   Construction plans and profiles shall be drawn on sheets measuring
22 or 24 inches by 36 inches, shall be the same size as the final plat, and
shall include the following:
         (a)   A plan and profile of each street with top of curb grades shown.
Each sheet shall include north point, scale, date and bench mark description to
sea level datum. Scales shall be one inch equal 40 feet horizontally and one
inch equal five feet or six feet vertically. Each plan shall show the seal and
signature of the professional civil engineer who prepared the plans;
         (b)   The cross-section of proposed streets showing the width of
roadways and type of pavement and location and width of sidewalk;
         (c)   A plan and profile of proposed sanitary sewers, with grades and
pipe sizes indicated and showing locations of manholes, cleanouts and the like,
and a plan of the proposed water distribution system showing pipe sizes and
location of valves, fire hydrants and fittings and the like, in conformance
with the criteria as shown in §§
156.050 through
156.058. Each plan shall show the seal and signature of the registered
professional engineer who prepared the plans. Each sheet shall include north
point, scale, date and bench mark description to sea level datum; and
         (d)   A plan and profile of proposed storm sewers, showing hydraulic
data, pipe grades and sizes, manholes, inlets, pipe connections, outlet
structures and the like, in conformance with the criteria as shown in §§
156.050 through
156.058. Each plan shall show the seal and signature of the registered
professional civil engineer who prepared the plans. Each sheet shall include
north point, scale, date and bench mark description to sea level datum.
      (13)   Certification by a registered professional civil engineer or
licensed land surveyor, registered in the state, to the effect that the plan
represents a survey made by him or her or under his or her direct supervision
and that all the monuments shown thereon actually exist; and that their
location, size and material are correctly shown;
      (14)   A certificate of ownership and dedication of all streets, alleys,
parks and playgrounds to public use forever, signed and acknowledge before a
notary public by the owner and lienholder of the land, and a complete and
accurate description of the land subdivided and the streets dedicated;
      (15)   The following certificate shall be placed on the plat, in a manner
that will allow the filling in of the certificate by the proper party:
         Recommended for Approval
                                                                                                                     
         Chairperson Planning and Zoning Commission   Date
            City of Port Isabel, Texas
         Approved and accepted
                                                                                                                     
               Mayor               Date
            City of Port Isabel, Texas
         Recommended for approval
      The undersigned, the City Secretary of the City of Port Isabel, Texas,
hereby certifies that the foregoing final plat of the                  
Subdivision or Addition to the City of Port Isabel submitted to the City
Commission on the      day of             , 20   and the Council, by formal
action then and there accepted the dedication of streets, alleys, parks,
easements, public places, and water and sewer lines, as shown and set forth in
and upon the plat, and the Council further authorized the Mayor to note the
acceptance thereof by signing his or her name as hereinabove subscribed.
         Witness my hand this     day of             , 20  
                                                                          
                        City Secretary
      (16)   Certificate showing that all taxes and fees have been paid on the
tract to be subdivided.
         (a)   The boundary lines with accurate distances and bearings, a metes
and bounds description of the boundary (error of closure shall not exceed one
in 5,000), exact acreage and the exact location and width of all existing or
recorded streets intersecting the boundary of the tract. One copy of the
traverse closure sheet shall be enclosed.
         (b)   True bearings and distances to the nearest established street
lines, official monuments or subdivision corner, which shall be accurately
described on the plat. Municipal, township, county or abstract lines shall be
accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distances and bearings.
         (c)   An accurate location of the subdivision in reference to the deed
records of the county which shall include the volume and page of the deed of
the property to be subdivided.
         (d)   The exact layout including:
            1.   Street and/or alley names;
            2.   The length of all arcs, radii, internal angles, points of
curvature, length and bearing of the tangents;
            3.   All easements for right-of-way provided for public services or
utilities and any limitations of the easements; and
            4.   All lot numbers and lines with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths and with bearings and angles to street and alley lines to the
nearest second.
         (e)   The accurate location, material and approximate size of all
monuments.
         (f)   The accurate outline description of all property which is
offered for dedication for public use, such as parks and the like, with the
purpose indicated thereon, and all property that may be reserved by deed
covenant for the common use of the property owners in the subdivision.
         (g)   Building setback lines.
         (h)   Private restrictions.
         (i)   Name of the proposed subdivision.
         (j)   Name and address of the subdivider.
   (E)   The final plat shall be recorded by the subdivider in the office of
the County Clerk within ten days from and after the date of final acceptance by
the City Commission.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985) Penalty, see §
156.999
GENERAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.030 STREETS.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
proposed streets shall conform to the general plan of the community, and their
relationship shall be considered to that of the existing and planned streets,
to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by the
streets.
   (B)   Where such is not shown in the general plan for the community, the
arrangements of streets in a subdivision shall:
      (1)   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
principal streets in surrounding areas;
      (2)   Conform to a plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the
city to meet a particular situation where topographical or other conditions
make continuation of or conformance to existing streets impracticable; and
      (3)   Be laid out so that they shall intersect, as nearly as possible, at
right angles.
   (C)   Residential streets shall be so laid out that their use by through
traffic shall be discouraged.
   (D)   Street jogs with centerlines offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
   (E)   Street right-of-way widths shall conform to the city’s Thoroughfare
Plan, and in no case shall any street right-of-way be less than 50 feet.
   (F)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where necessary to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformance with the other
requirements of these regulations and where the city finds it will be
practicable to require the dedication of the other half when street has already
been provided adjacent to an area to be subdivided, the other remaining portion
of the street shall be platted within the subdivision. Where part of a
residential or collector street is being dedicated along a common property
line, the first dedication shall be one-half on the proposed street right-of-
way plus five feet.
   (G)   Cul-de-sacs in residential additions shall not be longer than 600 feet
from the nearest intersection and in industrial areas they shall not exceed
1,000 feet from the nearest intersecting street, and there shall be provided at
the closed end a turnaround having an outside roadway diameter of at least 80
feet and a street property line diameter of at least 100 feet.
   (H)   All streets shall be paved, and paving shall conform to §§
156.050 through
156.058 of these regulations. All residential streets shall be paved 28 feet
wide face to face of curbs.
   (I)   Street grades shall be established regarding topography, proposed land
use and the facilities in the area surrounding the land to be subdivided,
providing desirable minimum street grades of 0.50%. An absolute minimum of
0.30% will be allowed.
   (J)   Street name markers shall be installed in accordance with the
prescribed type currently in use by the city, or an approved equal, as proved
by the City Manager. Street markers and erections will be at the expense of the
subdivider.
   (K)   Driveway cuts or entrances shall not be permitted on collector
streets, minor arterials or principal arterials. All ingress and egress to
residential lots facing either collector streets or minor or principle
arterials shall have an alley provided for rear entrance only.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.031 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts,
except that the city may waive this requirement where other definite and
assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading,
unloading and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
   (B)   Alleys shall be provided in all residential areas and in all
commercial, retail or industrial areas.
   (C)   The minimum right-of-way width of an alley shall be 20 feet in
industrial and commercial areas and 20 feet in residential areas. Alley turn-
outs shall be paved to the property line and shall be at least ten feet wide
face to face of curbs at that point. Paving radius where alleys intersect
thoroughfares shall be ten feet and shall be five feet at intersections with
all other streets.
   (D)   Alley intersections and sudden changes in alignments shall be avoided,
but where necessary, lot corners shall be cut off at least 15 feet on each
tangent to permit safe vehicular movement.
   (E)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turn-around facilities, as determined by the
city.
   (F)   All alleys shall be paved, and the paving shall conform to §§
156.050 through
156.058 of these regulations. Alley paving shall be a minimum of ten feet wide
in residential areas and 16 feet wide in commercial and industrial areas.
   (G)   Where driveways connect to alleys in commercial, industrial or
residential areas, fences shall only be constructed along the rear lot line of
any lot to a point within 5.0 feet of a point where the driveway would
intersect the alley pavement at 90 degrees. Fences to be constructed along any
driveway or perpendicular to alleys shall not be constructed within 5.0 feet of
the rear lot line or alley easement line.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.032 LOTS.
   (A)   All lots shall conform to the regulations as set forth in the city’s
zoning regulations.
   (B)   Corner lots in residential areas shall be wider than inside lots so as
to allow an appropriate setback from both streets.
   (C)   Each lot shall face onto a public street or private drive. Lots with
street frontage at both front and rear shall, be avoided except when backing on
a highway or thoroughfare.
   (D)   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles to straight
street lines and radial to curved street lines.
   (E)   In subdivisions where buildings are to be served by septic tanks, the
size of lots shall be sufficiently large to accommodate adequate drainage
fields and to meet the standards set forth by the State Department of Health
and the city.
   (F)   Residential lots shall be a minimum of 60 feet wide at the front
building line and a minimum of 100 feet deep and shall have a minimum area of
6,000 square feet.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.033 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements across lots on rear or side lot lines shall be provided for
utilities when necessary and shall be at least 15 feet wide.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is bounded by a water course, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of the water course, or of a
width to provide for any future anticipated construction, plus ten feet on each
side.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.034 BLOCKS.
   (A)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined
regarding:
      (1)   Provision of adequate building site suitable to the special needs
of the type of use proposed;
      (2)   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
      (3)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
traffic; and
      (4)   Limitations of topography.
   (B)   Where no existing subdivision controls, the blocks shall not exceed
1,200 feet in length nor be less than 500 feet in length, except in certain
instances where topographical features warrant special consideration. These
limits shall be exceeded only upon specific approval by the city. Blocks longer
than 600 feet shall be avoided in business districts.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.035 MOBILE HOMES AND RECREATIONAL PARKS.
   Development of mobile homes and recreational parks for locating mobile homes
and recreational vehicles shall be in accordance with the provisions of the
Chapter 153, Mobile Homes and Travel Trailer Parks, and shall meet the approval
of the city.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.036 SURVEY MARKERS AND LOT MARKERS.
   Lot markers shall be one-half-inch reinforcing bar, 18 inches long, or
approved equal, and shall be placed at all lot corners flush with the ground,
or below ground, if necessary in order to avoid being disturbed.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.037 PARK AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Policy. It is hereby declared to be the express policy of the city
that the city shall endeavor to provide sufficient recreational facilities
within the city so as to adequately provide for and primarily benefit persons
in the various residential subdivisions of the city. This policy will be
carried out under the provisions of this section and the design criteria
established for various types of parks and neighborhood facilities. The
following types of parks and facilities will be provided according to the need
as determined by the City Commission on recommendation of the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
      (1)   The community park. This type of park is defined as one designed
for use of citizens from all parts of the city.
      (2)   The neighborhood (pocket) park. This type of park is defined as one
designed for but not limited to use of citizens residing within the subdivision
wherein the park is located.
   (B)   Standards and guidelines.
      (1)   The city has developed a design criteria for the express purpose of
planning an integrated and cohesive park and recreational facility plan.
Because of the complexity of the plan, the city has determined that
subdivisions containing acreage less than certain amounts should not be
required to dedicate land upon initial request for plat approval. Because of
the infeasibility of dedication of land in particular subdivisions, the city
has determined that a fee in lieu of actual dedication shall be required, to
allow the city, at some future date and at a time when the design criteria
dictates, to purchase land in the location, and of the appropriate size to be
the most advantageous selection in conformity with the selected design
criteria.
      (2)   The city has determined that the fee schedule hereinafter set forth
properly ensures that the fee in lieu of dedication shall adequately provide
funds which may be used to purchase sufficient land upon which to provide park
and recreational facilities to fulfill the need for the facilities caused by
the influx of persons into the community by reason of subdivision development.
   (C)   Requirements for dedication of land or payment of fee for park and
recreation development.
      (1)   Prior to the approval of any final residential subdivision plat,
the need for park and recreational facilities required to serve the platted
area shall be determined and approved by the City Commission on the basis of
the standards and guidelines set out herein and the established design criteria
for neighborhood parks and community parks and other recreational facilities as
promulgated by the City Commission or its duly authorized Park and Recreation
Board.
      (2)   Upon submission and approval by the City Commission, the subdivider
or developer shall be required to pay a cash payment to the city for
acquisition or development of park sites. The cash payment shall be in the sum
of $150 per platted lot and other consideration, if accepted by the City
Commission. The size and type of these park facilities shall be determined by
the City Commission in accordance with standards as set forth herein and with
the established designs criteria. Each townhouse or multi-family unit shall pay
$75 for each unit.
      (3)   In each of the above instances in division (C)(2) above, the
subdivider or developer shall pay, upon submission and approval of the final
plat, the sum of 50% of the amount specified above, and the remaining 50% shall
be paid by the subdivider developer or builder at a time as a building permit
is issued for the construction of a single-family unit or a multi-family unit
on the platted lots. Should a subdivider or developer plat be rejected by the
City Commission, all payments provided in this chapter shall be refunded to the
subdivider or developer in full.
      (4)   ln the event the other considerations is land to be dedicated which
abuts a street, water or sewer utility, the street and utility shall be
dedicated to the city along with the land.
   (D)   Pro rata unit cost and charges. The pro rata unit cost shall be based
upon the actual number of platted lots or constructed living units contained
and shown with the final plat. All pro rata charges made under the provisions
of this chapter shall be deposited in the Park Fund of the city and the funds
shall be used only for purposes of providing park and recreational facilities
to the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 156.050 STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION DETAILS.
   All improvements within the city shall be in accordance with the standard
specifications and construction details of the city.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.051 PAVING.
   (A)   Concrete strength requirements.
      (1)   Concrete curb and gutter. Concrete curb and gutter shall be
constructed of a concrete batch design, providing a seven day flexural beam
strength of 5-0 p.s.i.
      (2)   Reinforced concrete pavements and monolithic curb. Concrete
pavement and monolithic curb properly and continuously reinforced shall be
constructed of a concrete batch design, providing a seven day flexural beam
strength of 525 p.s.i.
   (B)   Pavement thickness requirements.
      (1)   Residential street and alley construction.
         (a)   Residential streets and alleys shall be designed and constructed
with adequate thickness, based on State Highway Department triaxial design
criteria, to provide for unlimited repetitions of 5,000 pound wheel load and a
maximum of 7,000 repetitions of 18,000 pound axle load.
         (b)   A six-inch thickness of 3,000 p.s.i. reinforced concrete
pavement shall be deemed to meet or exceed the loading requirements outlined
above. The six-inch thickness will be acceptable without performing additional
soils investigation of design calculations, except that stabilization of the
subgrade will be required if a plasticity index of 15 or more is found.
      (2)   Collector street and commercial or industrial alley construction.
Collector streets shall be designed and constructed with adequate thickness,
based on State Highway Department triaxial design criteria, to provide for
unlimited repetitions of 8,000 pound wheel load and a minimum of 70,000
repetitions of 18,000 pound axle loads. A six-inch thickness of 3,500 p.s.i.
reinforced concrete pavement with a stabilized subbase of not less than six
inches shall be deemed to meet or exceed these load requirements, except that
stabilization will not be required where subbase material has a plasticity
index of less than 12. The six-inch thickness and subbase stabilization will be
acceptable without performing additional soils investigation or design
calculations.
   (C)   Paving width requirements.
      (1)   Residential and collector streets and alleys. The subdivider shall,
at his or her own cost and expense, pay for constructing all residential
streets and alleys and all collector streets up to 44 feet wide measured
between the face of curbs.
      (2)   Minor and principle arterials.
         (a)   In areas as shown on the Thoroughfare Plan where no existing
road exists the subdivider shall be required to construct a 22-foot wide street
section on each side of a designated thoroughfare measured between the face of
curbs with eight inches of reinforced concrete pavement (or equivalent) and a
stabilized subgrade, if required.
         (b)   In areas shown on the Thoroughfare Plan where asphalt roadway
exists, the developer with a special permit from the City Commission may
reconstruct the existing surface and subgrade as subgrade, stabilized with 6%
hydrated lime and constructing a three-inch asphalt concrete surface 22 feet
wide.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.052 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Concrete sidewalks having a width of not less than four feet and
thickness of not less than four inches shall be constructed of 2,000 p.s.i.
concrete on both sides of all streets and thoroughfares within the subdivision.
   (B)   Sidewalks shall be constructed one foot from the property line within
the street or thoroughfare right-of-way and shall extend along the street
frontage including the side extended along the street frontage including the
side of corner lots and block ends.
   (C)   Construction of sidewalks adjacent to curb in residential areas will
be considered only where driveway entrances are constructed from the rear of
lots on each side of the street for the full length of the block.
   (D)   In these instances, the sidewalk shall be five feet wide.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.053 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The design of storm drainage improvements in the city shall be
based on flood discharges determined from the Rational Formula. The formula for
calculating storm flows in this manner is:
   Q = CIA
   Where:
   Q is the storm flow at a given point;
   C is a coefficient equal to the ratio that the peak rate of runoff bears to
the average rate of rainfall;
   I is the average intensity of rainfall for a period equal to the time of
flow from the farthest point of the drainage area to the first inlet point on
the storm sewer; and
   A is the area tributary to the design point.
      (2)   The subdivider shall pay for the cost of all drainage improvements
connected with development of his or her subdivision, including any necessary
off-site channels or storm sewers and acquisition of the required easements,
with the following exceptions:
         (a)   An enclosed storm sewer shall be provided in all areas where the
quantity of the accumulated storm run-off does not exceed 200 c.f.s.; and
         (b)   In drainage courses where the accumulated storm run-off is more
than 200 c.f.s., and less than 500 c.f.s. either an enclosed storm sewer system
or a concrete line channel shall be constructed.
      (3)   (a)   In drainage courses where the accumulated storm run-off is
more than 500 c.f.s., the drainage improvements may be either an enclosed storm
sewer, a concrete line channel, or an earthen channel.
         (b)   Earthen channels shall be designed according to the criteria as
set forth by the following typical channel section.
   (B)   Runoff coefficient. The runoff coefficient which considers the slope
of the terrain, the character of the land use, the length of overland flow, and
the imperviousness of the drainage area shall be determined from the ultimate
land development as shown on the Master Plan of the city. The runoff
coefficient for the appropriate land uses shall be as follows:
 
Land Use          Runoff Coefficient
Commercial areas  0.90
Industrial areas  0.70
Residential areas 0.45
Apartment areas   0.70
Park areas        0.35
 
   (C)   Rainfall intensity-frequency.
      (1)   The rainfall intensity-frequency curves which are shown on Plate 1
are plotted from data by the United States Department of Commerce Weather
Bureau in Technical Paper No. 40. See
Appendix A.
      (2)   The intensity, I, in the formula Q=CIA is determined from these
curves by arriving at a time of concentration and adapting a storm frequency
upon which to base the drainage improvements.
         (a)   Time of concentration. The time of concentration, which is the
time of flow from the farthest point of the drainage area to the first inlet in
the system, consists of the time required to flow in the gutter to the inlet. A
minimum time of concentration of 15 minutes shall be used for all areas except
commercial areas, and a minimum time of concentration of ten minutes shall be
used in commercial areas. A nomograph, shown on Plate 2, is attached for
estimating the time of concentration. See
Appendix A.
         (b)   Storm frequency. Recommended design storm frequencies for the
storm drainage improvements in the city are shown in a table as follows:
                     Description of Area to Maximum Time of Design Frequency
Type of Facility     Be Drained             Concentration   (Years)
                                            (Minutes)
**Storm sewers       Residential,
***                  commercial and         30              2
                     industrial
*Culverts, bridges,  Any type of area less  30              10
channels and creeks  than 100 acres
                     Any type of area
**Culverts, bridges, greater than 100 acres 45              25
channels and creeks  but less than 1,000
                     acres
Culverts, bridges,   Any type of area
channels and creeks  greater than 1,000     60              50
                     acres
*   When the maximum time of concentration or area to be drained is exceeded,
the design shall be based on a 10- year frequency.
**   When the maximum time of concentration or area to be drained is
exceeded, the design shall be based on a 50-year frequency
***   Whenever, in a storm sewer system, an inlet is located at a low point
so that flow in excess of the storm sewer capacity would be directed onto
private property, the design frequency shall be increased beyond 10 years if
the inlet location is such that overflow could cause damage or serious
inconvenience, it may be desirable to increase the design frequency to as
much as 25 years.
 
   (D)   Area. The area used in determining flows by the Rational Formula shall
be calculated by subdividing a map into drainage areas within the basin
contributing storm water runoff to the system.
   (E)   Spread of water. During the design storm, the quantity of storm water
that is allowed to collect in the streets before being intercepted by a storm
drainage system is referred to as the spread of water.
In determining the limitations for carrying storm water in the street, the
ultimate development of the street shall be considered. The use of the street
for carrying storm water shall be limited to the following:
 
Spread of Water
Major thoroughfares (divided) One traffic lane on each side to remain clear
Thoroughfares (not divided)   Two traffic lanes to remain clear
Collector streets             One traffic lane to remain clear
Residential streets           Six-inch depth of flow at curb or no lanes
                              completely clear
Curves are provided on Plate 3 for determining the spread of water for certain
gutter slopes, gutter discharge and pavement crown. Also provided are curves
for determining the depth of gutter flow (Plate 4) and curves for determining
the curb inlet opening length (Plate 5); see
Appendix A
 
   (F)   Storm sewer design. Storm water in excess of that allowed to collect
in the streets shall be intercepted in inlets and carried away in a storm sewer
system. Storm sewer capacity shall be calculated by Manning’s Formula:
   Q = A *1.486/n * R2/3 * S1/2
   Where:
   Q is the discharge in cubic feet per second;
   A is the cross-sectional area of flow in square feet;
   R is the hydraulic radius in feet;
   S is the slope of the hydraulic gradient in feet per foot; and
   n is the coefficient of roughness (n=.013 for new concrete pipe)
      (1)   Sample computation sheets are included for inlet and storm sewer
design calculations.
      (2)   In the design of the storm sewer system, the elevation of the
hydraulic gradient of the storm sewer shall be a minimum of one and one-half
feet below the elevation of the adjacent street gutter.
      (3)   Storm sewer pipe sizes shall be so selected that the average
velocity in the pipe will not exceed 15 feet per second nor less than three
feet per second.
      (4)   Storm sewer systems shall be installed in all areas where the
quantity of storm run-off is 200 cubic feet per second or less. A storm sewer
system may be constructed when the quantity exceeds 200 c.f.s. at the
discretion of the subdivider.
   (G)   Open channel design. Storm water run-off in excess of that allowed to
collect in the streets in developed areas and run-off in undeveloped areas may
be carried in open channels (not in the street right-of-way). Open channel
capacity shall be calculated by Manning’s Formula and roughness coefficients
shall be as follows:
 
Type of Lining        Roughness Coefficient “nMaximum Permissible Mean
                                                Velocity
Earth (Bermuda Grass) 0.035                     8 feet per second
Earth (non Vegetated) 0.030                     5 feet per second
Concrete Lined        0.015                     15 feet per second
Weathered Road        0.030                     15 feet per second
 
      (1)   Open channels shall be constructed with a trapezoidal cross-section
and shall have side slopes no steeper the three to one in earth and one and
one-half to one when lined with concrete.
      (2)   The subdivider shall dedicate a right-of-way on all concrete line
channels of sufficient width to provide for excavation of the open channel of
proper width, plus ten feet on each side to permit ingress and egress for
maintenance.
   (H)   Culvert design.
      (1)   At locations of creek crossings with proposed roadway improvements,
it is sometimes necessary to receive and transport storm water under the
roadway in culverts. The quantity of flow shall be determined by the Rational
Formula, and the capacity of the culvert shall be calculated by Manning’s
Formula.
      (2)   Design of culvert shall include the determination of upstream
backwater conditions as well as downstream velocities and flooding conditions.
Consideration shall be given to the discharge velocity from culverts, and the
following limitations are allowed.
 
Culvert Discharge - Velocity Limitations
Culvert Discharging On To Maximum Allowable Velocity (f.p.s.)
Earth                     6
Sod Earth                 8
Paved or riprap apron     15
Shale                     10
Rock                      15
 
      (3)   Generally, all culverts shall be designed with a free outfall and
the following head losses shall govern the design of the culvert:
         (a)   Frictional head loss.
            hf = SfL   where:
            Sf = Slope of frictional gradient in feet per foot; and
            L = Length of culvert in feet.
         (b)   Head loss due to change in velocity.
            hv = v22/2g - v12/2g
            Where:
            v2 = Velocity in culvert;
            v1 = Velocity in channel above culvert; and
            g = Acceleration due to gravity.
         (c)   Head loss at upstream entrance to culvert due to entrance and
change in section.
            he = v22/2g
            Where: v1/2g is equal to or less than six feet per second.
            he = v22/2g - 0.5 v12/2g
            Where:   v1 is greater than six feet per second.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.054 WATER LINES.
   Water systems shall have sufficient number of outlets and shall be of
sufficient size to furnish adequate domestic water supply, to furnish fire
protection to all lots, and to conform with the city’s Master Water Plan.
   (A)   All water mains shall be constructed in streets, easements or alleys.
   (B)   All water mains 12-inch and smaller may be either gray or ductile cast
iron pipe, Class 150 unless otherwise specified, with single rubber gasket
joint, shall have a cement mortar lining of the “Enameline” type, or proved
equal, and shall have a minimum cover of 42-inches. Water mains 14-inch and
larger may be either gray or ductile cast iron pipe, Class 150 minimum, with
cement mortar lining or reinforced concrete steel cylinder pipe, Class 150
minimum.
   (C)   Ductile iron pipe will be required in all bores, in unstable soil
conditions (expensive clays, unstable subsoil) in or near creeks or where lines
must be installed at shallow depths (less than 36 inches).
   (D)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe may be installed for water mains in the
public water utility system.
      (1)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe and fittings.
         (a)   PVC pipe shall be new, manufactured in the United States of
America, and shall be blue in color PVC pipe shall conform to the current
specifications of AWWA C900, PVC pipe with cast iron outside dimensions and
with rubber ring joints. PVC water pipe shall be listed by Underwriters
Laboratories and approved for use in cities and towns of the state by the State
Board of Insurance. The rigid PVC pipe shall bear the seal of approval (or
“NSF” mark) of the National Sanitation Foundation Testing Laboratory for
potable water pipe. Provisions must be made for contraction and expansion at
each joint with a rubber ring, and an integral thickened bell as part of each
joint. Pipe and fittings must be assembled with a non-toxic lubricant. Pipe
shall be made from NSF approved class 12454-A or B PVC compound conforming to
ASTM resin specification D1784 PVC pipe shall be Class 200 (SDR 14) and meet
the physical dimensions as shown on the following list:
 
Nominal Size (Inch) Outside Diameter (Inch) Class 200 (SDR14) Minimum Wall
                                            Thickness (Inch)
4                   4.08                    0.343
6                   6.90                    0.493
8                   9.05                    0.646
 
         (b)   PVC pipe shall be designed for 200 psi water pressure plus 35
psi surge. Service connections may not be made by direct tapping for service
lines. A brass tap saddle shall be used to tap service lines. Fittings may be
mechanical joint or rubber O ring slip joint constructed of cast iron, ductile
iron or PVC material. Valves shall be anchored with concrete blocking and
straps. Concrete thrust clock will be used as required at all bends.
      (2)   PVC pipe special embedment.
         (a)   PVC pipe shall be placed on a four-inch layer of crushed rock or
rounded gravel bedding material.
         (b)   The trench shall be backfilled with a minimum of six inches of
sand on the sides and 12 inches (loose) over the top of the pipe and
consolidated to a minimum of 90% standard Proctor density. This is basic-Class
“B” as defined by ASCE Manual No. 37 and AWWA C900-75. Final backfill is to
conform to § W.4.16.1. or § W.4.16.2. The Class “B” embedment material is
further defined as follows:
            1.   Ninety-five percent of material pass three-fourths screen; and
            2.   Ninety-five percent of material retained on No. 4 screen.
         (c)   Tracer tape, blue in color, similar to Terra Tape “D”
“DETECTABLE “ as supplied by Griffolyn Co., Inc., Houston, Texas shall be
installed in the backfill material over the top of the PVC-non metallic pipe
accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations.
   (E)   Fittings shall be either gray or ductile cast iron with mechanical
joints and shall be cement lined and coated inside and out with a seal coat of
bituminous material, unless the pipe material is reinforced concrete steel
cylinder in which case special fittings shall be furnished.
   (F)   The term RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY within the means of this chapter shall
mean any tract of land developed for the purpose of single-family or two-family
domestic living, but not excluding educational or religious institutions. The
term COMMERCIAL TRACT within the meaning of this chapter shall mean any tract
of business or nonresidential property and residential uses of including but
not limited to multi-family complexes, residential attached, condominiums
religious, light and heavy industry, and all other classifications of
properties other than single-family residential; however, nothing herein
contained shall be construed as limitation or repeal of the definitions set
forth in § 1.12, page 5 of the Fire Prevention Code.
   (G)   Location of fire hydrants.
      (1)   Fire hydrants shall be placed on block corners or near the center
of the block as to place all of every lot within a radius of 500 feet in
residential areas, but under no circumstances shall a hose lay of more than 500
feet be made from the fire hydrant to cover all of every lot within the
subdivision or tract under development.
      (2)   The owner of commercial tracts of real estate located in the city
shall cause to be installed upon the premises’ fire hydrants in a radius of 300
feet in commercial or industrial areas, but under no circumstances shall a hose
lay of more than 400 feet be made in order to adequately afford fire protection
to the building or buildings.
   (H)   The owner of any commercial tract of property contemplated in this
chapter on which fire hydrants and water lines have been installed shall by
reason of the installation, grant an easement to the city whereby the Fire,
Police and Water Utilities Departments of the city shall have ingress and
egress to, from and across the property to any location on the property when
necessary to extinguish a fire or to prevent the occurrence of a fire or to
maintain, service and inspect the fire hydrants and water lines that may be
installed or when access to and from the property is essential to the
preservation of life or property.
   (I)   All fire hydrants shall have one pumper nozzle and two hose nozzles
with the city’s standard threads, shall have a main barrel valve opening of not
less than five inches, and shall be placed on mains of not less than six inches
in diameter. Six-inch gate valves shall be placed on all fire hydrants leads.
   (J)   (1)   All fire hydrants shall be painted by the developer in
accordance with the size of the line constructed.
 
6-inch line        Bright red
8-inch line        Royal blue
10-inch and larger Standard yellow
 
      (2)   The top and outlet caps of all hydrants installed shall be painted
with a machine implement paint or approved equal. The body of all hydrants
shall be painted a silver color with an approved aluminum paint.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.055 SANITARY SEWERS.
   Sanitary sewer facilities shall be provided to adequately service the
subdivision and conform with the city’s Master Sanitary Sewer Plan.
   (A)   All sewer pipes may be vitrified clay sewer pipe and shall be extra
strength, conforming to ASTM C700 (Latest Revision) or cement-lines bituminous
coated ductile iron pipe or polyethylene lined ductile iron pipe.
   (B)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe shall conform to the specifications of
ASTM D 3034, SDR 35 and shall be green in color. Joints for the PVC pipe and
fittings shall be compression rubber gasket joints. The bell shall consist of
an integral wall section with factory installed ring securely locked in bell
groove to provide positive seal under all installation conditions. Fittings and
accessories shall be manufactured and furnished by the pipe supplier or
approved equal and have bell and/or spigot configuration identical to that of
the pipe. Connections shall be made with a fabricated fitting. Field glued
connections are not allowed. When PVC pipe passes through a manhole wall,
asbestos cement sleeves with a rubber ring joint will be used to provide a
positive water tight connection.
   (C)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe special embedment.
      (1)   PVC pipe shall be place on a four-inch layer of crushed rock or
rounded gravel bedding material. The trench shall be backfilled with a minimum
of six inches of sand on the sides and 12 inches (loose) over the top of the
pipe and consolidated to a minimum of 90% standard Proctor density. This is
basic-Class “B”embedment as defined by the ASCE Manual No. 37 and AWWA C900-75
and ASTMD2321 with 5% maximum Mandrell Test to be performed. Final backfill is
to conform to § S.4.17.
      (2)   The Class “B” embedment material is further defined as follows:
         (a)   Ninety-five percent of material pass three-fourths-inch screen;
and
         (b)   Ninety-five percent of material retained on No. 4 screen.
   (D)   Six-inch lines will be acceptable only on short lines and in the
locations where so approved by the city.
   (E)   All vitrified clay sanitary sewer pipe joints shall be of the pre-
molded type conforming to ASTM Designation C425.
   (F)   Wherever possible, sewers shall be located in the alleys or easements
and shall be five feet to six and one-half feet deep to invert.
   (G)   Grades and appurtenances of sanitary sewers shall conform to the
requirements of the State Department of Health Resources. The following are the
minimum slopes which should be provided; however, slopes greater than these are
desirable:
Sewer Size Minimum Slope in Feet Per 100 Feet
Sewer Size Minimum Slope in Feet Per 100 Feet
6 inches   0.50
8 inches   0.40
10 inches  0.28
12 inches  0.22
15 inches  0.15
18 inches  0.12
21 inches  0.10
24 inches  0.08
27 inches  0.067
30 inches  0.058
36 inches  0.046
 
   (H)   Prior to the acceptance, the sanitary sewers shall be subject to
leakage test. The leakage outward or inward (exfiltration or infiltration)
shall not exceed 200 gallons per inch of the pipe diameter per mile per day for
any section of the system. The use of a television camera or other visual
methods for inspection prior to placing the sewer in service is recommended.
   (I)   All lift stations shall be designated and constructed with two or more
sewage pumps with total capacity of twice the design maximum flow. Detailed
design data, plans and specifications of the pumps shall be submitted to the
City Engineer prior to the purchase and installation of the pumps.
   (J)   Force mains.
      (1)   All force mains shall be cast iron pipe, Class 150, unless
otherwise specified, with rubber gasket joint, and shall have a cement mortar
lining of the “Enameline” type or approved equal.
      (2)   At design average flow, a cleansing velocity of at least two feet
per second shall be maintained. An automatic air relief valve shall be placed
at high points in the force main to prevent air locking.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.056 UTILITY SERVICE.
   (A)   All services for utilities shall be made available for each lot in a
manner so as to eliminate the necessity for disturbing the street and alley
pavement, curb, gutter, sidewalks and drainage structures when connections are
made.
   (B)   Water service lines shall be a minimum of three-fourths inch type “K”
copper and shall be provided with a corporation at the main and a curb stop
located at least two feet outside of curb with cover not to exceed one and one-
half feet. Subdivider shall provide a suitable marker marked “W” (minimum
letter height of two inches) on top of curb.
   (C)   Sanitary sewer service lines shall be a minimum of four-inch, shall
meet the same requirements for sanitary sewers described above, shall be
constructed from the main to the lot property line using wyes and necessary
bends, and shall have a minimum cover at the property line of four feet, where
possible.
   (D)   The subdivider shall place a suitable marker at the point where the
service lines are stubbed out so that these lines can be easily located for
connection by the city. Suitable markers shall be “W” for water and “S” for
sewer stamped in top of curb or edge of payment if no curb is constructed.
Letters shall have a minimum height of two inches and a minimum width of two
inches.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.057 STREET LIGHTING.
   (A)   Street lighting shall conform to the latest edition of the
Illuminating Engineering Society Handbook. Round tapered standards with bracket
arms shall be used. Lighting levels as recommended for very light traffic in
residential areas, medium traffic on feeder streets and heavy traffic on
thoroughfares.
   (B)   Initial cost on installation and cost of operation and maintenance for
the first three years shall be paid to the local governing body.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.058 AS-BUILT PLANS.
   Within 30 days of acceptance of the subdivision, the Engineer for the
developer shall submit to the Inspection Department a complete set of drawings
of the paving, drainage, water and sewage improvements showing all changes made
in the plans during construction and containing on each sheet an as-built stamp
bearing the signature of the Engineer and the date. In addition, one
reproducible drawing of the utility plan sheets, containing the as-built
information shall be submitted.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
FEES, CHARGES AND BOND
§ 156.070 FILING FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The following schedule of fees and charges shall be paid to the city
when any plat is tendered to the Planning and Zoning Commission or any other
authorized board or agency of the city. Each of the fees and charges provided
herein shall be paid in advance, and no action of the Planning and Zoning
Commission or any other board or agency shall be valid until the fee or fees
have been paid to the officer designated therein.
   (B)   (1)   The City Manager, his or her deputies or assistants, shall
calculate the fees and charges in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Preliminary plat     $100 per plat, plus $4 per lot; engineering fees and any
                     other additional expenses
Final plat           $150 plus $5 per lot; engineering fees and any other
                     additional expenses
For approval of multiple dwelling areas, commercial or industrial areas not
subdivided into lots, both preliminary and final plats shall carry a fee of
$200 per acre per plat, plus engineering fees and any other additional
expenses
Mobile homes and recreational parks for locating mobile homes and recreational
vehicles
   Preliminary pla$100 per acre, plus engineering fees and any other
                     additional expenses
   Final plats    $150 per acre, plus engineering fees and any other
                     additional expenses
 
      (2)   These fees shall be charged on all plats, regardless of the action
taken by the Planning and Zoning Commission and whether the plat is approved or
denied by the City Commission.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 459A, passed 2-13-1996)
§ 156.071 MAINTENANCE BOND.
   The subdivider shall furnish a good and sufficient maintenance bond in the
amount of 5% of the contract price or in an amount as approved by the City
Engineer with a reputable and solvent corporate surety, in favor of the city,
to indemnify the city against any repairs which may become necessary to any
part of the construction work performed in connection with the subdivision,
arising from defective workmanship or materials used therein, for a full period
of one year from the date of final acceptance of the entire project. Final
acceptance will be withheld until the maintenance bond is furnished to the
city.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
OTHER REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.085 CHANGES AND VARIATIONS.
   These rules and regulations are the standard requirements of the city. A
suspension of any of these rules and regulations may be granted by the City
Commission, upon a showing that there are special circumstances of conditions
affecting the property in question, that enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter will deprive the applicant of a substantial property right, and that
the suspension, if granted, will not be materially detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property or property rights in the vicinity.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or who shall fail to comply with any provision thereof shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $200, and each day that the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable accordingly.
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
APPENDIX A: PLATES AND IMAGES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7556735c02478bacf4a5752c409be95fff427b82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2079.jpg]
 
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7556735c02478bacf4a5752c409be95fff427b82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2081.jpg]
 
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7556735c02478bacf4a5752c409be95fff427b82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2083.jpg]
 
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7556735c02478bacf4a5752c409be95fff427b82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2085.jpg]
 
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7556735c02478bacf4a5752c409be95fff427b82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2087.jpg]
 
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7556735c02478bacf4a5752c409be95fff427b82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2089.jpg]
 
(Ord. 459, passed 12-17-1985)
CHAPTER 157: SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Scope
   
157.002   Definitions
Sign Standards by Zoning Districts
   
157.015   Required signs
   
157.016   Residential signs
   
157.017   Business and industrial signs
   
157.018   Public signs
   
157.019   Off-premise signs
   
157.020   Construction
Permitted Temporary Signs
   
157.035   General
   
157.036   Development signs
   
157.037   Directional signs
   
157.038   Subdivision signs
   
157.039   Contractor or subcontractor signs
   
157.040   Sale, lease and rent signs
   
157.041   No trespassing signs
   
157.042   Public display of political signs
   
157.043   Grand opening signs
   
157.044   Window signs
   
157.045   Shingle signs
Prohibited Signs
   
157.060   Prohibited signs; generally
   
157.061   Billboard signs
   
157.062   Portable signs
   
157.063   Abandoned signs
   
157.064   Unsafe signs
Administration and Enforcement
   
157.075   Requirement of conformity
   
157.076   Administrative official
   
157.077   Board of Adjustments and Appeals
 
   
157.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 SCOPE.
   The following sign regulations are hereby adopted for the city and to the
extent allowed by law are applicable to the entire extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 455D, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 157.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERED. Refers to nonconforming signs. Any nonconforming sign may have its
physical characteristics altered, but only to cause the sign to conform to the
provisions of this chapter. For purposes of this definition, a nonconforming
sign may have its name, lettering and/or coloring changed by its owner without
the change being considered an alteration.
   BANNERS. A sign made from flexible, cloth-like material or fabric designed
to be attached at opposite ends to the wall of the structure. A banner may not
exceed 36 inches in height. In length, a banner may not exceed eight feet or
25% of the length of the wall of the structure upon which it is located,
whichever is less.
   BILLBOARD. Any sign located on a lot not containing a building, and erected
on a framework or on any structure or attached to a post or posts and exceeding
36 square feet in size and used for display of bills, posters or other
advertising or informational material; or for the purpose of advertising a
business, organization, event, person, place or thing.
   COMMERCIAL USE. Any building or part of any building whose primary purpose
is to provide the retail sale or rental of goods or services, including hotels
and motels, shall be considered a COMMERCIAL USE.
   CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTOR SIGNS. Temporary signs which designate the
contractor or subcontractor engaged in the construction or repair of the
building or buildings on each lot or parcel of property.
   DEVELOPMENT SIGNS. Temporary signs used to indicate or to identify a
proposed future development upon real property.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN.
      (1)   Open house. A temporary sign used to direct traffic to home,
condominium or townhouse for sale.
      (2)   Subdivision, condominium or townhouse. Any temporary sign which is
designed and erected for the purpose of directing the public to a recorded
residential subdivision, condominium or townhouse complex for the sale of
homes, condominium or townhouses or lots thereon. These signs may be placed on
property other than that to which the public is directed.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Building Official of the city including any other
employee of the city designated by the Building Official to assist in serving
as an Enforcement Officer.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign or any part of any sign, regardless of its
relationship to a building, that does not conform exactly to the wall sign
definition shall be considered a FREESTANDING SIGN. A shingle sign of three
square feet is excepted.
   GRAND OPENING SIGN. A temporary sign which calls attention to a new
business.
   HOTEL-MOTEL. Any structure or part of any structure containing five or more
dwelling units for lease to the general public for any period less than 30
days.
   MAY. The word MAY is permissive.
   MENU BOARDS. A sign consisting of two flat rigid board-like materials hinged
together at the top with a four-point footing on bottom (an A-frame design) not
exceeding 36 inches in width nor 48 inches in height.
   MODEL HOME SIGN. A temporary sign identifying a nonoccupied new home,
condominium or townhouse used as a demonstrator constructed for the purpose of
selling other homes or units. Each model home located on and within a recorded
residential subdivision for sale of homes or lots thereon, may have one
identification sign not to exceed 15 square feet in area, or two signs if on a
corner lot.
   MULTI-USE STRUCTURE. Any building containing any combination of residential
uses, commercial uses or public uses.
   MURAL. A painting applied to and made a part of a wall. It shall have no
advertising.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN. Any sign displaying any type of information for any
product or service not located on the same premises as the sign.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT USE. Any group of buildings planned and developed as a
unit.
   POLITICAL. Advocating or opposing the nomination or election of a candidate
for public office or a candidate for office of a political party; advocating or
opposing a political party; or advocating or opposing a position or vote on any
other measure on the ballot of a primary, general or special public election.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any movable sign that is not attached to a permanent support
or building, designed to be temporary and mobile.
   PUBLIC DISPLAY. Visible and legible to persons situated or traveling in
places accessible to the general public within the city limits of the city and
attached to real property or to any object attached to real property by any
means including but not limited to paint, nails, staples, string, wire,
adhesive or gravity.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. All property owned or under the control of the state, the
county, the city and all entities existing pursuant to its authority, the Port
Isabel Independent School District and the Laguna Madre Water District.
   PUBLIC USE. Any building or part of any building whose primary purpose is to
provide governmental, institutional, educational or religious services.
   RESIDENTIAL USE. With the exception of hotels and motels, any building whose
primary purpose is to provide one or more dwelling units regardless of
character or ownership.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected or constructed wholly upon and over the roof of
any building and supported solely on the roof structure.
   SALE, LEASE AND RENT SIGNS. Temporary signs which indicate that some
premises or vacant lots are for sale, lease or rent.
   SHALL. The word SHALL is mandatory.
   SHINGLE SIGN. A sign used to identify a business whose front entrance is
under a roof overhang.
   SIGN. Any device or creation for visual communication which is used or
intended to attract the attention of the public whether illuminated or non-
illuminated. Such devices and creations include, but are not limited to,
murals, logos, descriptions, illustrations, icons, images, pictures,
manufactured objects, sculptures, or ornamental objects and construction
features which are affixed to a building, structure, or land and which are
designed to attract the attention of the public to a product, place, activity,
person, service, institution, business, or establishment. SIGN shall also
include any ornamental or unusual construction feature which is not a normal
structural or architectural component of a building, but instead designed to
attract the attention of the public.
   SUBDIVISION SIGNS. Temporary signs erected and maintained in connection with
the development of land located within a recorded residential subdivision for
sale of any houses or lots thereon.
   UTILITY PROPERTY. All property, located on public property or public right-
of-way, owned by or under the control of any licensed or franchised business
operating within the city limits of the city providing utility services
including but not limited to electrical, gas, telephone, cable television,
garbage collection, and water and sewer service.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign permanently attached to or painted onto a surface of a
building, parallel to the plane of the surface not higher than the roof line
and with the face of the sign no more than 12 inches from the surface.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign placed inside or upon a window facing the outside and
which is intended to be seen from the exterior. WINDOW SIGNS are allowed only
for commercial uses.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 455C, passed 1-6-1998; Ord. 455D, passed 2-
13-2001; Ord. 455E, passed 1-28-2003; Ord. 455-F, passed - -2004)
SIGN STANDARDS BY ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 157.015 REQUIRED SIGNS.
   Every building or group of buildings within the city limits shall be
identified by a street number (street address) as set forth in §§
154.01 through
154.07.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 157.016 RESIDENTIAL SIGNS.
   (A)   Residential R-1, R1-A and R-2 zoning districts. A billboard, signboard
or advertising sign shall not be permitted, except that the placing of an
unilluminated “For Sale” or “For Rent” sign not more than eight square feet in
area may be permitted as an accessory use.
   (B)   A-1 and A-2 zoning districts.
      (1)   Freestanding signs for individual dwelling units are prohibited,
except as required to conform with postal regulations. One freestanding sign,
one wall sign and one roof sign are permitted for each hotel-motel, condominium
or apartment complex. Sign face area of the three combined signs shall not
exceed 100 square feet. The 100 square feet allowance may be used on one of the
three types of sign permitted rather than in combination.
      (2)   Change panel information is permitted, provided that it is limited
to the following:
         (a)   Vacancy or no vacancy; and
         (b)   Rental rates.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 157.017 BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL SIGNS.
   (A)   B-1, B-2 and L-1, H-1 Zoning District.
   (B)   The total sign face area permitted for businesses shall be limited to
100 square feet. Total sign face area allowed may be displayed on a free
standing sign, wall sign and roof sign. The 100 square foot allowance may be
used on only one of the three types of signs permitted in lieu of a
combination. Overall height of free standing sign shall not exceed 25 feet.
   (C)   Business centers and shopping centers shall be limited to one free
standing sign not to exceed 100 square feet of sign face area. Individual
businesses within the centers shall be limited to 35 square feet of wall or
roof sign.
   (D)   Businesses and business centers shall be allowed one square foot of
sign increase for each 100 square feet of building increased over 10,000 square
feet, but not to exceed 250 square feet of sign face area with a maximum
overall height of 30 feet.
   (E)   Change panel information is permitted.
   (F)   Advertising is permitted.
   (G)   Banners will be allowed, one per business location, to promote a
special event, a product or a special sale relating to that business location.
Banners may not be used in lieu of a permanent business sign. Banners must be
made of a durable material and must be well maintained by the business owner.
   (H)   Menu boards will be permitted, one per business location, advertising
the product or service of that business location. Menu boards may be displayed
only during those hours during which the business is open. Menu boards may not
be placed in the public right-of-way, except when approved by the City Building
Department. All menu boards shall be uniform in construction, material, surface
and texture.
   (I)   The color, print font and design of all banners and menu boards must
be complimentary of and consistent with the neighboring buildings and other
structures in the zoning district. Banners and menu boards must be immediately
adjacent to the business location and may not pose an obstruction to
pedestrians nor pose a hazard to public safety.
   (J)   The placement, design and construction of all banners and menu boards
must receive approval, prior to placement, by the City Building Department. The
placement, design and construction of all banners and menu boards to be located
within the Downtown Historic District or any other historic district must
receive approval, prior to placement, first by the Historic Preservation Board
and, after its approval, by the City Building Department.
   (K)   Upon approval the City Building Department shall issue a permit for
the banner or menu board upon payment of $25. The permit shall state any
special conditions concerning the location of the sign and shall state that the
right to use the signage shall expire January 31, 2004. The City Building
Department shall have continuing authority and discretion to monitor use and
placement of the signs for purposes of maintenance and public safety.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 455E, passed 1-28-2003)
§ 157.018 PUBLIC SIGNS.
   (A)   Sign requirements shall be the same as those for A-1 and A-2 Zoning
Districts.
   (B)   Change panel information is permitted.
   (C)   Advertising is prohibited.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 157.019 OFF-PREMISE SIGNS.
   (A)   Off-premise wall signs are prohibited.
   (B)   Off-premise free-standing signs are prohibited, except that businesses
and public buildings located within the corporate limits may have one free
standing off-premise vacant lot sign. The total area of such a free-standing
sign shall not exceed 36 square feet with no more than 18 square feet on any
flat surface.
   (C)   Only one off-premise sign will be allowed on any vacant lot, and not
within 50 feet of another off-premise sign.
   (D)   Off-premise signs shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
   (E)   Off-premise signs shall not extend across the property line into
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 157.020 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A) Conformity with Building Code. All permanent signs shall be structurally
designed and constructed in conformance with the Building Code of the city.
   (B)   Lighting.
      (1)   All permanent signs may be lighted.
      (2)   Lighting shall be installed to avoid any glare or reflection into
any adjacent property.
      (3)   Exposed neon or similar tube type lighting is prohibited.
      (4)   Exposed light bulbs, except as required for indirect lighting are
prohibited.
      (5)   Flashing, blinking or rotating lights are prohibited.
   (C)   Movement. No sign shall be permitted which moves by any means.
   (D)   Location.
      (1)   No sign shall obstruct egress from any door, window or fire escape
of any building.
      (2)   No sign shall be displayed that represents an official traffic
control device, or presents any traffic hazard, or obstructs the vision of
motorists.
      (3)   No signs other than signs placed by agencies of government shall be
erected on any public property or city and/or state right-of-way. Any sign
placed in the city or state right-of-way within the city shall be removed on
sight by city maintenance department personnel and shall be stored at the
Public Works Department. Owners of the sign may reclaim their sign by paying a
$25 fee plus $1 per day for storage charge. Signs unclaimed and stored more
than 30 days shall be removed from storage and will be discarded.
      (4)   No sign shall be placed on any private property without the consent
of the owner thereof.
      (5)   No sign shall be placed or painted on any tree or rock.
      (6)   No signs shall be placed on any utility pole except for utility
identification or similar purpose, or any city traffic control sign post.
      (7)   A parked vehicle displaying advertising shall be considered a sign
unless in operable condition and carrying a current, valid license tag.
   (E)   Maintenance. Each sign shall be maintained in good order and repair at
all times.
   (F)   Portable signs. Portable signs are prohibited in any location
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 455A, passed 9-22-1987; Ord. 455B, passed 2-
13-1996)
PERMITTED TEMPORARY SIGNS
§ 157.035 GENERAL.
   (A)   Permits for temporary signs exceeding 16 square feet shall be issued
by the Building Inspector only when the sign is specifically allowed by this
chapter. Temporary sign permits shall be issued only for the period of active
use of the sign, and a permit shall not be issued for a period to exceed one
year. Subdivision signs may be granted and extended for the period of one year,
or until the last residence is sold, whichever period is shorter.
   (B)   All permitted temporary signs must meet the permanent sign design
standards required in §§
157.015 through
157.020 unless specifically stated otherwise in §§
157.035 through
157.045.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 455A, passed 9-22-1987)
§ 157.036 DEVELOPMENT SIGNS.
   (A)   One single- or double-faced sign is allowed upon the parcel of
property proposed to be developed, unless the parcel is a corner lot, in which
case two signs will be allowed, but only one sign per street front.
   (B)   The area of each sign shall not exceed 96 square feet.
   (C)   These signs shall not extend into public right-of-way.
   (D)   The sign or signs shall be removed within ten days after completion of
the announced development.
   (E)   The signs may be freestanding and no higher than 15 feet.
   (F)   Construction and installation of development signs within the city
shall require a sign permit from the Building Inspector, which shall be issued
for a term of one year.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.037 DIRECTIONAL SIGNS.
   (A)   Open house-model homes.
      (1)   The signs may have a maximum area of eight square feet.
      (2)   The signs may be double-faced and shall not be illuminated.
      (3)   The signs shall not be placed in any right-of-way.
      (4)   There shall be a maximum of three signs for each home or group of
homes in a subdivision.
      (5)   No sign shall be so placed as to create a traffic hazard.
   (B)   Subdivision, condominium or townhouse.
      (1)   The area of each sign shall be no more than 32 square feet.
      (2)   There may be a maximum of two signs used per subdivision.
      (3)   No part of any signs used shall be more than 15 feet in height nor
shall any sign project into the public right-of-way.
      (4)   The signs used shall be removed within ten days after the use they
advertise is fulfilled, and the Building Inspector shall have the authority to
make the determination of completion of use.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.038 SUBDIVISION SIGNS.
   (A)   Two signs not exceeding 96 square feet of area per sign are allowed.
   (B)   The signs used shall be erected not less than 200 feet apart except
that the signs may be back-to-back or V-shaped in the case of a corner lot.
   (C)   The signs may be illuminated
   (D)   The signs shall be no higher than 15 feet.
   (E)   The signs must be placed on the property being subdivided or
developed.
   (F)   The signs shall not extend into the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.039 CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTOR SIGNS.
   (A)   One non-illuminated sign is allowed per contractor or subcontractor.
   (B)   The signs shall not be more than 48 square feet in area.
   (C)   Each sign shall be removed within ten days after the function of the
contractor on the property is completed.
   (D)   All contractor or subcontractor signs shall be consolidated on one
sign. The area of the consolidated sign is to be calculated at six square feet
per contractor or subcontractor listed with a maximum area of 48 square feet.
   (E)   The signs shall not extend into the public right-of-way.
   (F)   The signs shall not be higher than 15 feet.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.040 SALE, LEASE AND RENT SIGNS.
   (A)   There shall be a limit of one sign on each lot or parcel of land,
except when it is a corner lot, in which case two signs may be used, one sign
per street front.
   (B)   The sign may be double-faced and may be illuminated.
   (C)   The signs shall be allowed as follows:
      (1)   Parcels containing five acres or more are allowed a sign not to
exceed 48 square feet;
      (2)   Parcels containing less than five acres but more than one acre area
allowed a sign not to exceed 32 square feet; and
      (3)   Parcels containing one acre or less are allowed a sign not to
exceed six square feet.
   (D)   The signs used shall be removed within 30 days after the use they
advertise is fulfilled, and the Building Inspector shall have authority to make
the determination of completion of use.
   (E)   The signs may be no higher than 15 feet.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.041 NO TRESPASSING SIGNS.
   (A)   The signs may have a maximum area of eight square feet.
   (B)   The signs shall not be placed in any right-of-way, and it shall not be
placed as to create a traffic hazard.
   (C)   The signs upon a parcel of land shall not be located closer than 50
feet apart.
   (D)   No permit shall be required for the sign.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.042 PUBLIC DISPLAY OF POLITICAL SIGNS.
   (A)   Public display of a political sign more than 90 days before the
applicable public election is prohibited, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Billboard signs and commercial advertising signage otherwise
regulated by the city and complying with all applicable laws and regulations;
      (2)   Signs attached to motor vehicles having valid license plates,
current inspection certificates, and otherwise legal for use on public streets,
with signs not exceeding a total of 128 square feet on any vehicle and not
exceeding 32 square feet on any side of the vehicle;
      (3)   Signs located inside a fully enclosed building; and
      (4)   One sign per candidate or other ballot measure per lot or business
location on private property no larger than six square feet.
   (B)   Public display of a political sign more than 30 days after the
applicable public election is prohibited, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Billboard signs and commercial advertising signage otherwise
regulated by the city and complying with all applicable laws and regulations;
      (2)   Signs attached to motor vehicles having valid license plates,
current inspection certificates, and otherwise legal for use on public streets,
with signs not exceeding a total of 128 square feet on any vehicle and not
exceeding 32 square feet on any side of the vehicle;
      (3)   Signs located inside a fully enclosed building;
      (4)   One sign per lot or business location no larger than six square
feet of a candidate for public office who may be eligible to be on the ballot
for a runoff in the next public election applicable to his or her campaign; and
      (5)   One sign per lot or business location no larger than six square
feet of a candidate for public office who won the primary election applicable
to his or her campaign and will be a candidate in the general election.
   (C)   Persons responsible for violations of divisions (A) and (B) above
shall include the following:
      (1)   The owners and operators of the vehicle upon which the political
sign is displayed in violation of the exception permitted under divisions (A)
(2) and (B)(2) above;
      (2)   The person in control of the property upon which the political sign
is displayed in violation of divisions (A) and (B) above, including owners,
lessees, tenants and occupants, as the case may be;
      (3)   Any person or persons who have initially caused the public display
of a political sign in violation of divisions (A) and (B) above; and
      (4)   Any person or persons legally capable of removing the political
sign in violation of divisions (A) and (B) above but refusing to do so after
being advised of the provisions of this section or having been provided a copy
thereof as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   Twenty-four hours prior to the commencement of the first criminal or
civil enforcement action of this section against a person responsible under
division (C) above for violation of divisions (A) and (B) herein, the
Enforcement Officer shall attempt to deliver a copy of this chapter to the
person for the purpose of causing compliance with this section without resort
to enforcement.
   (E)   Public display of a political sign is prohibited on any:
      (1)   Public property;
      (2)   Utility property;
      (3)   Public street, alley or right-of-way; and
      (4)   Private property without the consent of the owner or current
occupant of the property.
   (F)   Persons responsible for violations of division (E) above shall include
the following:
      (1)   Any person or persons who caused or assisted in the public display
of the political sign; and
      (2)   The candidate advertised by the political sign if the political
sign was created by or paid for by the candidate’s campaign and if, after 48
hour notification by the Enforcement Officer, the political sign is not removed
by the candidate or by another at his or her direction.
   (G)   In addition to the criminal enforcement and other remedial provisions
provided herein, the City Attorney or his or her designee may enforce the
provisions of this section through any and all civil remedies available. In
that event, persons, against whom enforcement is sought and against whom civil
remedies are granted, shall be jointly and severally liable for all damages,
court costs, attorney’s fees and all costs and expenses reasonably related to
the civil enforcement action.
   (H)   The Enforcement Officer shall be the only person responsible for
enforcement decisions made pursuant to this section. No enforcement decision
shall ever serve as cause for any type of disciplinary action by the city
against the Enforcement Officer. At the request of the Enforcement Officer, the
Chief of Police shall provide peace officers and the City Manager shall provide
appropriate city employees to assist the Enforcement Officer in the enforcement
of this section.
   (I)   Except as otherwise specifically prohibited, regulated or penalized
herein and not otherwise in conflict with this chapter, all other provisions of
this chapter shall apply to political signs. In the event of a conflict between
this section and this chapter in the interpretation or enforcement of this
section, this section shall govern.
(Ord. 455C, passed 1-6-1998) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.043 GRAND OPENING SIGNS.
   (A)   The sign or signs shall not be displayed more than ten days.
   (B)   There shall be only one grand opening allowed per business.
   (C)   The signs may be either a wall or freestanding sign, but will not
exceed 32 square feet.
   (D)   Freestanding signs shall not exceed ten feet in height, nor be placed
on any public right-of-way.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.044 WINDOW SIGNS.
   (A)   Window signs. Signs on or inside the windows of a commercial
establishment are permitted.
   (B)   Banners. Fabric type banners may be used. The banners count as
freestanding or wall signs depending on the method of attachment. In no case
may the adding of a banner, whether temporary or permanent, exceed the total
square footage allowed. The banners shall not be placed on any public right-of-
way.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.045 SHINGLE SIGNS.
   (A)   Each individual business is allowed one shingle sign for each store
front.
   (B)   The sign must be perpendicular to the building front.
   (C)   No part of a sign shall extend beyond any corner of the building or
the area of an overhanging roof.
   (D)   The sign shall contain the name of the individual business only.
   (E)   Maximum size of a shingle sign shall not exceed three square feet.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985) Penalty, see §
157.999
PROHIBITED SIGNS
§ 157.060 PROHIBITED SIGNS; GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any sign which is not included as
a type of sign herein above permitted. Prohibited signs include, but are not
limited to the following.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 455D, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.061 BILLBOARD SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect any billboard sign within the corporate limits
of or within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city except:
   (A)   A billboard sign concerning scenic or historic attractions; and
   (B)   A billboard sign erected by a governmental agency.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 455D, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.062 PORTABLE SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place any portable sign within the corporate
limits of the city, including but not limited to public right-of-way, with the
following exception:
      (1)   Nonconforming portable signs that were in place prior to December
17, 1985;
      (2)   Portable signs used as grand opening signs or specific events not
to exceed 30 days; and
      (3)   A portable sign placed by an agency of the federal government, an
agency of the state or a political subdivision of the state.
   (B)   A portable sign which is permitted under one of the exceptions above
shall be anchored to the ground to prevent movement, and electrical connections
shall meet the National Electrical Code requirement and shall be connected by a
licensed electrician.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 455A, passed 9-22-1987) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.063 ABANDONED SIGNS.
   Except as otherwise provided in §§
157.060 through
157.064, any sign that is located on property which becomes vacant and is
unoccupied for a period of three months or more, or any sign which pertains to
a time, event, or purpose which no longer applies, shall be deemed to have been
abandoned. Permanent signs applicable to a business temporarily suspended
because of a change of ownership or management of the business shall not be
deemed abandoned unless the property remains vacant for a period of six months
or more. An abandoned sign is prohibited and shall be removed by the owner of
the sign, owner of the premises or the Building Inspector after written notice
has been served,
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.064 UNSAFE SIGNS.
   Should any sign become insecure or in danger of falling or otherwise unsafe
in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the owner thereof, or the person or
firm maintaining the same, shall, upon written notice from the Building
Inspector, forthwith in the case of immediate danger and in any case within ten
days, secure the same in a manner to be approved by the Building Inspector, in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter or remove the sign. If the order
is not complied with within ten days, the City Inspector shall remove the sign
at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 157.075 REQUIREMENT OF CONFORMITY.
   (A) Any sign existing lawfully prior to shall be a nonconforming sign and
may be continued in use providing:
      (1)   The sign is maintained in good order and repair at all times;
      (2)   The sign is not removed or damaged by natural causes to an extent
exceeding 50% of its replacement value; and
      (3)   If a nonconforming sign is removed from its original location it
may not subsequently be returned to the location and continued in use; nor may
it be used elsewhere within the city limits, unless modified to conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any sign to be placed or maintained in the
city on or after except as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the erection, construction and
maintenance of official traffic or fire and police signs, signals, devices or
marking of the state, the county, the city, or other competent public
authorities, or the posting of notices required by law.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 157.076 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Building Inspector of the
city shall administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 157.077 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   These rules and regulations are the standard requirements of signs
within the city. A suspension of any of these rules and regulations may be
granted by the Board of Adjustments and Appeals upon a showing that there are
special circumstances or conditions affecting the sign in question, that
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will deprive the applicant of a
substantial property right, and that the suspension, if granted, will not be
materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property or
property rights in the vicinity.
   (B)   In cases where a variance request to the Board of Adjustments and
Appeals would not be appropriate, an applicant may elect instead to request a
special permit from the City Commission pursuant to the process set forth in §
160.186. In order to qualify for a special permit, the applicant must show that
the proposed signage will provide an aesthetically desirable and appropriate
artistic, cultural, social, or historical contribution to the visual appearance
of Port Isabel. Upon such a showing, the Port Isabel City Commission may allow
the special permit with such changes, restrictions, or reservations it deems
appropriate.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 455-F, passed - -2004)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Any person, firm, corporation or agent who shall violate any
provision of this chapter or fail to comply therewith or with any of the
requirements thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Each person, firm, corporation or agent shall be guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day, or portion thereof, during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter are committed or continued;
and upon conviction of any violation, the person, firm, corporation, or agent
shall be punished by a fine in an amount not to exceed $1,000.
   (B)   Political signs. 
      (1)   Any person who intentionally violates the provisions of §
157.042(A) and (B) of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $250. Each violation
occurring within a 24-hour period shall be considered a separate violation. A
summons shall be issued in the event of a violation and criminal enforcement
action under §
157.042(A) and (B).
      (2)   Any person who intentionally violates the provisions of §
157.042(E) of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000. In addition to the criminal
penalty provided for herein, any political sign in violation of §
157.042(E)(1), (E)(2) and (E)(3) may be summarily removed and discarded by city
employees at the direction of the Enforcement Officer and the city shall also
retain the remedies provided to the city pursuant to this chapter. A summons
may be issued in the event of a violation of and criminal enforcement action
under §
157.042(E).
   (C)   Civil enforcement. In addition to the criminal penalties and other
remedial provisions contained in this chapter and other regulations of the City
of Port Isabel, the City Attorney or his designee may enforce the provisions of
this chapter through any and all civil remedies available. In such event,
persons against whom enforcement is sought and against whom civil remedies are
granted shall be jointly and severally liable for all damages, court costs,
attorney's fees, and all other costs and expenses incurred by the city and
reasonably related to the civil enforcement action.
(Ord. 455, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 455C, passed 1-6-1998; Ord. 455-F, passed -
-2004)
CHAPTER 158: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
Section
   
158.01   Adopting an official annotated map
§ 158.01 ADOPTING AN OFFICIAL ANNOTATED MAP.
   The revised official annotated map for the city, copies of which are on file
in the office of the City Secretary, is adopted and incorporated as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 631, passed 10-14-2003; Ord. 631A, passed 1-9-2007)
CHAPTER 159: HISTORIC DISTRICT AND LANDMARK ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
159.01   Purpose
   
159.02   Definitions
   
159.03   Historic Preservation Board
   
159.04   Appointment of historic preservation officer
   
159.05   Downtown Historic District designated
Designation of Districts and Landmarks
   
159.20   Designation of historic districts
   
159.21   Designation of historic landmarks
   
159.22   Criteria for the designation of historic districts and landmarks
Certificate of Appropriateness
   
159.35   Certificate of appropriateness for new construction in historic
districts and alteration of historic landmarks
   
159.36   Criteria for approval of a certificate of appropriateness for
alteration, restoration and rehabilitation
   
159.37   Certificate of appropriateness application procedure
   
159.38   Certificate of appropriateness required for demolition
   
159.39   Economic hardship application procedure
General Regulations
   
159.50   Enforcement
   
159.51   Ordinary maintenance
   
159.52   Demolition by neglect
   
159.53   Criminal offense
   
159.54   Civil enforcement
 
   
159.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 159.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Commission hereby declares that as a matter of public policy the
protection, enhancement, preservation and perpetuation of landmarks and
districts of historical, architectural, archeological or cultural importance
and significance is necessary to promote the economic, cultural, educational
and general welfare of the public. It is recognized that the city represents a
unique confluence of time and place that shaped generations of its citizens,
collectively and individually, and produced significant historic,
architectural, and cultural resources that constitute their heritage. This
chapter is intended to:
   (A)   Preserve, protect and enhance the landmarks and districts which
represent distinctive elements of the city’s historic, architectural,
archeological and cultural heritage;
   (B)   Promote economic prosperity and welfare of the community by
encouraging the most appropriate use of the property within the city;
   (C)   Foster civic pride in our accomplishments of the past;
   (D)   Protect and enhance the city’s attractiveness to visitors and thereby
provide stimulus to our economy;
   (E)   Ensure the harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and development of
the city in historic districts;
   (F)   Provide a review process to protect the rights of citizens and
property owners for the appropriate preservation and development of important
cultural, architectural, historic and archeological resources;
   (G)   Maintain a generally harmonious appearance of both historic and modern
structures through the use of complimentary scale, form, color, proportion,
texture and material; and
   (H)   Encourage stabilization, restoration and improvements of properties
and their values.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 159.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. Any change to the exterior of an historic landmark, building,
object, structure or site within a designated historic district. For buildings,
objects, sites or structures, ALTERATION shall include, but not be limited to,
the changing of roofing or siding materials, changing, eliminating or  adding
doors, door frames, windows, window frames, shutters, fences, railing, porches,
balconies, signs or other ornamentation, painting previously unpainted
surfaces, removing paint or the changing of paint color.
   BUILDING. A building, such as a house, barn, church, hotel or similar
construction that is created to shelter any form of human activity. BUILDINGS
may also be used to refer to an historically and functionally related unit,
such as a courthouse and jail, or a house and barn.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The certificate issued by the Historic
Preservation Board after review and approval of a complete application for a
certificate.
   DEMOLITION. The intentional destruction of any building, structure, object
or site, designated an historic landmark or located within an historic
district.
   DESIGN GUIDELINES. A list of regulations and recommendations, approved by
the City Commission, to be used for the alteration, restoration, rehabilitation
or new construction of buildings or structures within an historic district. The
recommendations are based on the Standards of Historic Preservation from the
United States Secretary of the Interior.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. As designated by the City Commission, possesses a
significant concentration, linkage or continuity of buildings, structures,
objects or sites united historically or aesthetically by plan or physical
development. An HISTORIC DISTRICT has outstanding historical, cultural,
architectural or archeological significance in the community.
   HISTORIC LANDMARK. As designated by the City Commission, is a building or
structure, object or site which has outstanding historic, cultural or
architectural significance. The designation HISTORIC LANDMARK recognizes that
the accessory buildings, fences or other appurtenances at the site are equally
and vitally important to the preservation of the property.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any building, object or structure which is relocated,
assembled, produced or erected that alters the appearance of a property,
including the replacement of a building or structure or a portion thereof that
has been removed or destroyed.
   OBJECT. Is used to distinguish from buildings and structures and those
constructions that are primarily artistic in nature or are relatively small in
scale and simply constructed. Although it may be, by nature or design, movable,
an OBJECT is associated with a specific site or environment, such as statuary
in a designed landscape.
   ORDINARY REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE. An in-kind replacement of material located
on the external portion of a building or structure. ORDINARY REPAIR AND
MAINTENANCE does not involve a change in design, material or outward
appearance. The replacement of a sign, building, object or structure in its
entirety does not constitute ORDINARY REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE.
   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign erected for more than 60 days shall be considered a
PERMANENT SIGN.
   PROPERTY. Includes buildings, structures, objects and sites.
   REHABILITATION. The act or process of returning a building, object or
structure to a state of utility through repair or alteration which makes
possible an efficient contemporary use while preserving those portions or
features of the property which are significant to its historic, cultural,
archeological or architectural values.
   RESTORATION. The act or process of accurately recovering the form and
details of a building, object or structure and its settings as it appeared at a
particular period of time by the removal of later work or by the replacement of
missing earlier work.
   SIGN. Any letter, figures, symbols, trademarks or devices designed to inform
people or attract the attention of persons to an individual, forum, profession,
business, commodity or service, and which is recognizable from any public
right-of-way.
   SITE. The location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historic
occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined or
vanished, where the location itself possesses historical, cultural or
archeological value, regardless of the value of any existing structure.
   STRUCTURE. Used to distinguish from buildings and those functional
constructions made usually for purposes other than creating shelter for human
activity.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 159.03 HISTORIC PRESERVATION BOARD.
   The City Museum and Historical Preservation Board, referred to herein as the
Historic Preservation Board, was created by Ordinance 568-A, code of ordinances
§§
98.01 through
98.08.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 159.04 APPOINTMENT OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICER.
   The City Director of Historical Preservation shall serve as the historic
preservation officer. If unavailable or unable to serve as the historic
preservation officer, the City Manager shall appoint a qualified city official,
staff person or appropriate resident of the city to serve as historic
preservation officer. If no qualified staff member is found, a qualified
volunteer may be appointed. This officer shall administer this chapter and
advise the Historic Preservation Board on matters submitted to it. The historic
preservation officer will be responsible for coordinating the city’s
preservation activities with those of state and federal agencies, and with
local, state and national non-profit preservation organizations.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 159.05 DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a new zoning district to be known as the
Downtown Historic District.
   (B)   The Downtown Historic District shall be comprised of the area bounded
on the west by the west side of the right-of-way of South Shore Drive, on the
north by the north side of the right-of-way of Houston Street and extending
into the Laguna Madre to the city limits, on the south by the south side of the
right-of-way of Hickman Avenue and extending into the Laguna Madre to the city
limits, and on the east by the city limits boundary in the Laguna Madre between
the afore described extensions of Hickman Avenue and Houston Street.
   (C)   The Downtown Historic District zone shall be an overlay zone in which
this chapter operates in addition to the zoning regulations already applicable
to properties within the District under
Chapter 160.
(Ord. 619, passed 8-28-2001)
DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS AND LANDMARKS
§ 159.20 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   These provisions pertaining to the designation of historic districts
constitute a part of the comprehensive zoning plan of the city.
   (B)   The Downtown Historic District has been created by §
159.05. Property owners within a newly proposed historic district shall be
notified 14 days prior to the Historic Preservation Board’s hearing on the
recommended designation. At the Historic Preservation Board’s public hearing,
owners, interested parties and technical experts may present testimony or
documentary evidence which will become part of a record regarding the historic,
architectural or cultural importance of the proposed historic district.
   (C)   (1)   The Historic Preservation Board may recommend the designation of
a district if it:
         (a)   Contains properties and an environmental setting which meet one
or more of the criteria for landmarks; and
         (b)   Constitutes a distinct section of the city.
      (2)   The Historic Preservation Board shall make its written
recommendation within five days of the hearing and shall submit its
recommendation to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (D)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall give notice and conduct its
hearing on the proposed designation within 30 days of receipt of the
recommendation from the Historic Preservation Board. The hearing shall be
conducted in the same manner and utilize the same procedures as provided in the
general zoning regulations of the city. The Planning and Zoning Board shall
make its decision at its hearing and shall so advise the City Secretary.
   (E)   The City Commission shall give notice and conduct its hearing on the
proposed designation within 30 days of the receipt of the recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Commission. The hearing shall be conducted in the same
manner as provided in the general zoning regulations of the city.
   (F)   Upon designation of a historic district, the City Commission shall
cause the designated boundaries to be recorded in the Official Records of Real
Property of the county, the tax records of the city, the County Appraisal
District and the official zoning maps of the city. All zoning maps shall
indicate designated historic districts.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 159.21 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC LANDMARKS.
   (A)   These provisions pertaining to the designation of historic landmarks
constitute a part of the comprehensive zoning plan of the city.
   (B)   Property owners of proposed historic landmarks shall be notified 14
days prior to the Historic Preservation Board hearing on the recommended
designation. The property owner’s consent to the designation shall be required.
At the Historic Preservation Board’s public hearing, owners, interested parties
and technical experts may present testimony or documentary evidence which will
become part of a record regarding the historic, architectural or cultural
importance of the proposed historic landmark. The Historic Preservation Board
shall make its written recommendation within five days of the hearing and shall
submit its recommendation to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall give notice and conduct its
hearing on the proposed designation within 30 days of receipt of the
recommendation from the Historic Preservation Board. The hearing shall be
conducted in the same manner and utilize the same procedures as provided in the
general zoning regulations of the city. The Planning and Zoning Board shall
make its decision at its hearing and shall so advise the City Secretary.
   (D)   The City Commission shall give notice and conduct its hearing on the
proposed designation within 30 days of the receipt of the recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Commission. The hearing shall be conducted in the same
manner as provided in the general zoning regulations of the city.
   (E)   Upon designation of a building, object, structure or site as an
historic landmark, the City Commission shall cause the designation to be
recorded in the Official Records of Real Property of the county, the tax
records of the city, the County Appraisal District and the official zoning maps
of the city. All zoning maps shall indicate the designated landmarks with an
appropriate mark.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 159.22 CRITERIA FOR THE DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND LANDMARKS.
   An historic landmark or district may be designated if it:
   (A)   Possesses significance in history, architecture, archeology or
culture;
   (B)   Is associated with events that have made a significant contribution to
the broad patterns of local, regional, state or national history;
   (C)   Is associated with the lives of persons significant in our past;
   (D)   Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period or method
of construction;
   (E)   Represents the work of a master designer, builder or craftsman; and
   (F)   Represents an established and familiar feature of the city.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
§ 159.35 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION IN HISTORIC
DISTRICTS AND ALTERATION OF HISTORIC LANDMARKS.
   (A)   No person shall carry out new construction within an historic district
without first obtaining a certificate of appropriateness.
   (B)   No person shall carry out any construction, reconstruction,
alteration, restoration, rehabilitation, relocation or demolition of any
historic landmark or any property within an historic district without first
obtaining a certificate of appropriateness or a waiver thereof from the
historic preservation officer.
   (C)   No person shall make any material change in the light fixtures, signs,
sidewalks, fences, steps, paving or other exterior elements visible from a
public right-of-way which affect the appearance and cohesiveness of any
historic landmark or any property within an historic district without first
obtaining a certificate of appropriateness or a waiver thereof from the
historic preservation officer.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001) Penalty, see §
159.99
§ 159.36 CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OF A CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR
ALTERATION, RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION.
   In considering an application for a certificate of appropriateness, the
Historic Preservation Board shall apply the design guidelines approved by the
City Commission and, where applicable, by the United States Secretary of
Interior’s Standards for the Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings. The Design
Guidelines and the Secretary of Interior’s Standards shall be made available to
the property owners of historic landmarks and property owners within the
historic districts.
   (A)   Every reasonable effort shall be made to adapt the property in a
manner which requires minimal alteration of the building, structure, object, or
site and its environment.
   (B)   The distinguishing original qualities or character of a building,
structure, object or site and its environment shall not be destroyed. The
removal or alteration of any historic material or distinctive architectural
features should be avoided when possible.
   (C)   All buildings, structures, objects and sites shall be recognized as
products of their own time. Alterations that have no historical basis and which
seek to create an earlier appearance shall be discouraged.
   (D)   Changes which may have taken place in the course of time are evidence
of the history and development of a building, structure, object or site and its
environment. These changes may have acquired significance in their own rights,
and this significance shall be recognized and respected.
   (E)   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
which characterize a building, structure, object or site shall be kept where
possible.
   (F)   Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired rather than
replaced, wherever possible. In the event replacement is necessary, the new
materials should reflect the material being replaced in composition, design,
color, texture and other visual qualities. Repair or replacement of missing
architectural features should be based on accurate duplications of features,
substantiated by historical, physical or pictorial evidence rather than on
conjectural designs or the availability of different architectural elements
from other buildings or structures.
   (G)   The surface cleaning of structures shall be undertaken with the
gentlest means possible. Sandblasting and other cleaning methods that will
damage the historic building materials shall not be undertaken.
   (H)   Every reasonable effort shall be made to protect and preserve
archeological resources affected by, or adjacent to, any project.
   (I)   Contemporary design for alterations and additions to existing
properties shall not be discouraged when alterations and additions do not
destroy significant historical, architectural or cultural material, and design
is compatible with the size, scale, color, material and character of the
property, neighborhood or environment.
   (J)   Wherever possible, new additions or alterations to buildings,
structures, objects or sites shall be done in a manner that if the additions or
alterations were to be removed in the future, the essential form and integrity
of the building, structure, object or site would be unimpaired.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 159.37 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Prior to the filing of an application for a certificate of
appropriateness, the historic preservation officer shall informally review the
proposed work with the owner to determine whether a certificate is necessary.
The historic preservation officer may waive the requirement for an application
in cases of minor or insignificant alterations. All new construction in an
historic district shall require a certificate of appropriateness. Prior to the
commencement of any work requiring a certificate of appropriateness the owner
shall file an application for a certificate with the Historic Preservation
Board. A complete application shall contain:
      (1)   Name, address, telephone number of applicant and a detailed
description of proposed work;
      (2)   Location and photograph of the property and adjacent properties,
and copies of any historical photographs if pertinent;
      (3)   Elevation drawings of the proposed construction or changes;
      (4)   Samples of materials to be used;
      (5)   If the proposal includes signs or lettering, a scale drawing
showing the type of lettering to be used, all dimensions and colors, a
description of materials to be used, method of illumination, if any, and a plan
showing the sign’s location on the property;
      (6)   If the application is for new construction, the names and addresses
of adjoining property owners and property owners within 200 feet of the
location. The owners shall be given written notice of the Board’s hearing on
the application which shall include a description of the proposed construction;
and
      (7)   Any other information which the Historic Preservation Board may
deem necessary in order to visualize the proposed work.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for the proposed work until a
certificate of appropriateness has first been issued by the Historic
Preservation Board. The certificate of appropriateness required by this chapter
shall be in addition to and prior to, and not in lieu of, any building permit
that may be required by any other ordinance of the city.
   (C)   The Historic Preservation Board shall review the application at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting within 30 days from the date the
application is received, at which time an opportunity will be provided for the
applicant and interested parties to be heard. The Historic Preservation Board
shall approve, deny, suspend for a specified period not to exceed 30 days, or
approve with modifications the permit within ten days after the review meeting.
In the event the Historic Preservation Board does not act within 45 days of the
receipt of the application, the certificate shall be deemed granted.
   (D)   All decisions of the Historic Preservation Board shall be in writing.
The Historic Preservation Board decision shall state its findings pertaining to
any denial or modification of the application. A copy of the findings shall be
sent to the applicant. Additional copies shall be filed as a part of the public
record on that property and dispersed to appropriate city departments, e.g.,
building inspection.
   (E)   An applicant for a certificate of appropriateness dissatisfied with
the action of the Historic Preservation Board relating to the denial or
modification of a certificate of appropriateness shall have the right of appeal
to the City Commission within 30 days after receipt of notification of the
action. The City Commission shall give notice and conduct its hearing on the
appeal in the same manner as provided in the general zoning regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 159.38 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS REQUIRED FOR DEMOLITION.
   A permit for the demolition of an historic landmark or property within an
historic district, including secondary buildings and landscape features, shall
not be granted by the building inspector without first obtaining a certificate
of appropriateness by the Historic Preservation Board, as provided for in §§
159.35,
159.36 and
159.37 of this chapter.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 159.39 ECONOMIC HARDSHIP APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   After receiving written notification from the Historic Preservation
Board of the denial of a certificate of appropriateness for an existing
building or structure, an applicant may commence the hardship process. No
building permit or demolition permit shall be issued without a certificate of
appropriateness unless the Historic Preservation Board makes a finding that
hardship exists.
   (B)   (1)   When a claim of economic hardship is made due to the effect of
this chapter, the owner must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that:
         (a)   The property is incapable of earning a reasonable return,
regardless of whether that return represents the most profitable return
possible;
         (b)   The property cannot be adapted for another use at a reasonable
cost, whether by the current owner or by a purchaser, which would result in a
reasonable return;
         (c)   Efforts to find a purchaser interested in acquiring the property
and preserving it have failed; or
         (d)   The effect of this chapter diminishes the property market value
by at least 25% of the market value it would have without the effect of this
chapter.
      (2)   If the applicant has proven the elements set forth in this
division, the Board must grant the hardship application.
   (C)   The Historic Preservation Board shall hold a public hearing on the
application within 30 days from the date the hardship application is received
by the historic preservation officer. Following the hearing, the Historic
Preservation Board shall have ten days in which to present its written decision
to the building inspector. In the event that the Historic Preservation Board
does not act within 40 days of the receipt of the application, the hardship
application shall be deemed granted.
   (D)   All hardship decisions of the Historic Preservation Board shall be in
writing. A copy shall be sent to the applicant by certified mail and a copy
filed with the City Secretary’s office for public inspection. The Historic
Preservation Board’s decision shall state its reasons if denying the hardship
application.
   (E)   A hardship applicant for a certificate of appropriateness dissatisfied
with the action of the Historic Preservation Board relating to the denial of a
certificate of appropriateness shall have the right to appeal in writing to the
City Commission within 30 days after receipt of its decision. The notice of
appeal shall be filed with the City Secretary. The City Commission shall make
its decision on the appeal in the same manner as provided in the general zoning
regulations of the city. In the event the City Commission does not act on the
appeal within 30 days after receipt of the appeal, the certificate shall be
deemed granted.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 159.50 ENFORCEMENT.
   All work performed pursuant to a certificate of appropriateness issued under
this chapter shall conform to any requirements included therein. It shall be
the duty of the historic preservation officer to inspect periodically any work
to assure compliance. In the event the work is not being performed in
accordance with the certificate of appropriateness, or upon notification of the
fact by the Historic Preservation Board and verification by the historic
preservation officer, the preservation officer shall cause to be issued a stop
work order and all work shall immediately cease. No further work shall be
undertaken on the project as long as a stop work is in effect.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001) Penalty, see §
159.99
§ 159.51 ORDINARY MAINTENANCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance and repair of any exterior architectural feature of a landmark or
property within an historic district which does not involve a change in design,
material or outward appearance. In-kind replacement or repair is included in
this definition of ordinary maintenance.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 159.52 DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT.
   (A)   No owner or person with an interest in real property designated as a
landmark or property included within an historic district shall permit the
property to fall into a serious state of disrepair so as to result in the
deterioration of any exterior feature which produces a detrimental effect upon
the character of the historic district as a whole or the life and character of
the property itself.
   (B)   Examples of deterioration include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Deterioration of exterior walls or other vertical supports;
      (2)   Deterioration of floors, roofs or other horizontal members;
      (3)   Deterioration of exterior chimneys;
      (4)   Deterioration of crumbling of exterior stucco or mortar or bricks;
      (5)   Ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roof or foundations,
including broken windows or doors; and
      (6)   Deterioration of any feature so as to create a hazardous condition
which could lead to the claim that demolition is necessary for the public
safety.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001) Penalty, see §
159.99
§ 159.53 CRIMINAL OFFENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a criminal offense for any person to carry
out new construction within a historic district without first obtaining a
certificate of appropriateness, as prohibited in §
159.35(A) herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a criminal offense for any person to carry
out construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, rehabilitation,
relocation or demolition of any historic landmark or property within a historic
district without first obtaining a certificate of appropriateness or waiver
thereof, as prohibited in §
159.35(B) herein.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and a criminal offense for any person to make a
material change in the light fixtures, signs, sidewalks, fence, steps, paving
or other exterior elements visible from a public right-of-way of any historic
landmark or property within a historic district without first obtaining a
certificate of appropriateness or waiver thereof, as prohibited in §
159.35(C) herein.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful and a criminal offense for any person to fail to
obey a stop work order, as provided in §
159.50 herein.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful and a criminal offense for any person to allow
demolition by neglect, as prohibited in §
159.52 herein.
   (F)   These offenses are strict liability offenses for which no mens rea is
required for prosecution.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001) Penalty, see §
159.99
§ 159.54 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to the criminal enforcement provisions provided herein, the City
Attorney or his or her designee may enforce the provisions of this chapter
through any and all civil remedies available. In that event, persons against
whom enforcement is sought and against whom a civil remedy is granted, shall
also be liable for damages, court costs, attorney’s fees and all costs and
expenses reasonably related to the civil enforcement action.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 159.99 PENALTY.
   A person who commits a criminal offense under this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine in an amount
not to exceed $2,000 per offense.
(Ord. 618, passed 8-28-2001)
CHAPTER 160: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
160.001   Purpose
   
160.002   Title
   
160.003   Interpretation and definitions
   
160.004   Interpretation, purpose and conflict
District Descriptions and General Regulations
   
160.015   Districts
   
160.016   Definition and purpose of zoning districts
   
160.017   Territory annexed into city limits
   
160.018   General regulations
R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District Regulations
   
160.030   Use regulations
   
160.031   Height regulations
   
160.032   Area regulations
   
160.033   Parking regulations
R-1-A Modern Venice, East and West Addition District Regulations
   
160.045   Use regulations
   
160.046   Heights and area regulations
   
160.047   Parking regulations
R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District Regulations
   
160.060   Use regulations
   
160.061   Height regulations
   
160.062   Area regulations
   
160.063   Parking regulations
A-1 Hotel, Motel, Multi-Family District Regulations
   
160.075   Use regulations
   
160.076   Height regulations
   
160.077   Area regulations
   
160.078   Parking regulations
   
160.079   Other regulations
   
160.080   R-1 or R-2 in A-1 District
A-2 Mobile Home and Recreational Vehicle Park District
   
160.095   Use regulations
   
160.096   Area regulations
B-1 Business District Fire Zone
   
160.110   Use regulations
   
160.111   Height regulations
   
160.112   Area regulations
   
160.113   Parking regulations
B-1 Business District Outside Fire Zone
   
160.125   Use regulations
   
160.126   Height regulations
   
160.127   Other regulations
B-2 Business District
   
160.140   Use regulations
   
160.141   Height regulations
   
160.142   Area regulations
   
160.143   A-2 in B-2 District
H-1 Industrial District Regulations
   
160.155   Use regulations
   
160.156   Height, area and other regulations
   
160.157   Other restrictions
PDD Planned Development District Regulations
   
160.170   Planned Development District
   
160.171   Requirements of Planned Development District
   
160.172   Mobile Home/Recreational Vehicle Planned Development District
Nonconforming Uses and Special Permits
   
160.185   Nonconforming uses
   
160.186   Special permits
Board of Adjustment
   
160.200   Creation
   
160.201   Number of members
   
160.202   Meetings
   
160.203   Absentees
   
160.204   Election of officers
   
160.205   Waiting period
   
160.206   Appeals to Board
   
160.207   Powers of Board
General Regulations
   
160.220   Occupancy permits
   
160.221   Plats
   
160.222   Boundaries of districts; rules where uncertainty may arise
Enforcement, Changes and Amendments
   
160.235   Enforcement
   
160.236   Changes and amendments
Placement of Elevated Structures
   
160.240   Definitions
   
160.241   Exemptions
   
160.242   Regulations
 
   
160.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 160.001 PURPOSE.
   The zoning regulations and districts as herein established are made in
accordance with the Comprehensive Plan for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety and general welfare of the citizens of the city. They are designed to
lessen the congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic and
other dangers; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the
adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and other
public improvements. They are made with the reasonable consideration for the
character of the districts, their suitability for particular uses, and with a
view of conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate
use of the land throughout the city.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Port Isabel Zoning Chapter.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.003 INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. In the
interpretation of this chapter, words used in the present tense include future
tense and vice-versa; words in the plural number include the singular and vice-
versa; and the word SHALL means mandatory, not discretionary.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or portion of the main building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the main building.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms within an apartment house arranged,
intended or designed for a place of residence of a single family or group of
individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   AUTOMOBILE SALES AREA. An open area or lot used for the display or sale of
automobiles, where no repair work is done except minor reconditioning of the
cars to be displayed and sold on the premises. No dismantling of cars, or sale
or keeping of used car parts or junk on the premises is permitted.
   BUILDING. The word BUILDING shall include the word STRUCTURE and means any
structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure, shelter or
protection of persons, animals or property.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade (average elevation
of the ground around the structure) to the highest point of the coping of a
flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height level
between eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
   CLINIC. Offices for one or more physicians, surgeons or dentists engaged in
treating the sick or injured, but not including rooms for hospitalization of
patients.
   CONDOMINIUM.  A form of real property with portions of the real property
designated for separate ownership or occupancy, and the remainder of the real
property designated for common ownership or occupancy solely by the owners of
those portions. Real property is a condominium only if one or more of the
common elements are directly owned in undivided interests by the unit owners.
Real property is not a condominium if all of the common elements are owned by a
legal entity separate from the unit owners, such as a corporation, even if the
legal entity is owned by the unit owners.
   DAY NURSERY. A place where six or more children are left for care of a part
of the 24 hours of the day.
   DRIVEWAY. A vehicular entrance to a site.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed and used exclusively for
residential purposes.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building designed or occupied exclusively by three
or more families, living independently of each other, for residential purposes,
with separate housekeeping and toilet facilities.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by
one family as a residence.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two
families, living independently of each other, for residential purposes,
including duplexes.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Building Official of the city or his or her
designee.
   FARM. An area for the growing of the usual farm products and their storage
on the area, as well as the raising thereon of usual farm animals.
   FRONTAGE. All the property abutting upon one side of a street or
intersecting streets measured along the street line.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building used for the housing of motor vehicles which are
the property of and for the private use of the occupants of the lot on which it
is located. Not more than one of the vehicles may be commercial vehicles and
the vehicle shall be parked in a completely enclosed garage while on the lot.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A garage other than a private garage where motor vehicles
are equipped for operation, repairs or kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of the
immediate family residing on the premises; provided no product or property is
sold upon the premises; no person is employed other than a member of the
immediate family and two assistants; and no mechanical equipment is used which
will be obnoxious or offensive by reason of vibration, noise, odor, dust, smoke
or fumes.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building occupied as a temporary abiding place of
individuals who, for consideration, are lodged with or without meals.
   HUD-CODE MANUFACTURED HOMES. A structure constructed on or after June 15,
1976, according to the rules of the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development, transportable in one or more sections, which in the
traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in
length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems. The term does not
include a recreational vehicle as that term is defined by 24 C.F.R. § 3282.8
(g).
   LODGING OR BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where lodging and
meals for three or more persons are provided for compensation.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one main building together with its accessory
building, open spaces and parking spaces required by this chapter and having
its principal frontage upon a street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two intersecting streets at their
intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance measured at right angles to its
depth.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot or parcel of land, the plat of which has been recorded
in the County Clerk’s office.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure that was constructed before June 15, 1976,
transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight
body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected
on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis
and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating,
air conditioning and electrical systems.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any lot or parcel of land that is used or offered for the
accommodation of one or more mobile homes and/or HUD-Code manufactured homes
that are used for living and sleeping purposes.
   MOTOR HOMES. A self-propelled completely self contained vehicle which
contains some or all of the conveniences of a home including cooking, sleeping
and/or permanent sanitary facilities, and in which the driver’s seat is
accessible in a walking position from the living quarters, and designated for
temporary recreation, camping or travel use.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle of title such as automobile, truck, water craft,
motor home, travel trailer, motorcycle or trailer.
   NONCONFORMING USES. Any building or land lawfully occupied and used prior to
August 23, 1982 which does not conform with the regulations of the district
within which it is located.
   PAVED. An area permanently topped with a material such as asphalt or
concrete.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. A structure owned by a governmental entity designed or
intended for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of persons, animals
or property.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular-type, portable structure without a
permanent foundation that can be driven, towed, or hauled, that is designed as
a temporary living accommodation for recreational camping and travel use, and
that includes, but is not limited to, self-propelled motor homes, travel
trailers, truck campers, and camping trailers.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any lot or parcel of land that is used or offered
for the accommodation of one or more recreational vehicles.
   RETAINING WALL. A structure placed anywhere with the purpose of separating
an elevated area of earth from a lower area of earth, having the ability to
withstand the force and weight of the elevated earth.
   SCREENING FENCE. A fence or wall of at least six feet in height which
substantially obscures the view of the fenced location from the area outside of
the fenced location. Brick walls and wooden plank fences with no more than a
one-half inch space between planks are examples of SCREENING FENCES. Examples
of non-screening fences are chain link fences and picket fences.
   SEAWALL/BULKHEAD. A structure placed at or near the shoreline with the
purpose of separating the earth from the water and protecting the earth by its
imperviousness to water, having the ability to withstand the force of normal
wave and tidal action from the seaward side, and having the ability to
withstand the force and weight of the elevated earth on the landward side.
   SEMITRAILER. A device designed to be drawn by a truck tractor to transport
persons or property and constructed so that part of the vehicle’s weight and
load rests on or is carried by the motor vehicle.
   SITE. One or more or part of a parcel of land utilized for a particular use
as herein defined.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than basement, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it; or if there is
no floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than 60% of the floor area is finished off
for use. A HALF STORY may be used for occupancy only in conjunction with and by
the occupants of the floor immediately below.
   STORY, STANDARD. A story not exceeding ten feet in distance between the
floor and ceiling immediately above.
   STREET. The width between the boundary lines of a publicly maintained way
any part of which is open to the public for motor vehicle traffic.
   STRUCTURES. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in structural members of a building, such
as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a series or group of
attached units with property lines separating the units.
   TRAILER. A device designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle and to transport
persons or property.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A structure, transportable in one section, which is eight
body feet or less in width and is less than 32-body feet in length, and which
is built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used as a mobile dwelling
without permanent foundation, and may or may not be connected to the utilities
systems contained therein.
   TRAVEL TRAILERS, CAMPING TRAILERS and FIFTH WHEEL TRAILERS. Vehicles
designed as living quarters for temporary recreation, camping or travel use,
which do not have their own motor power, but are designed to be drawn by
another vehicle.
   TRUCK CAMPER. Any unit primarily designed as temporary living quarters for
recreation, camping, or travel use, which is capable of being occupied and
designed to be temporarily attached to the bed or frame of a truck.
   WATER FRONTAGE. A residential, commercial or industrial property that fronts
or abuts (rear or side) a navigable water source accessible to the Laguna Madre
Bay or Intracoastal Canal.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building unobstructed from the
ground upward.
   YARD, FRONT. The open area extending from the front of the lot between the
side lot lines and being the minimal horizontal distance between the right-of-
way fronting the lot and the front wall of the building, other than the
projection from the front of the building of steps, unenclosed porches or
entrance ways not exceeding five feet in length.
   YARD, REAR. The open area extending across the rear of a lot, measured
between the side lot lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between
the rear lot line and the rear wall of the main building, other than the
projection from the rear of the building of steps, unenclosed porches or
entrance ways not exceeding five feet in length.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 605-G, passed 3-8-2011; Ord. 605-H, passed 3-
12-2013)
§ 160.004 INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinance,
rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued, and not in conflict
with the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted or issued
pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises and likewise not
in conflict with this chapter; nor is it intended by this chapter to interfere
with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between
parties, provided, however, that where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon height of buildings,
or requires larger open spaces or larger lot areas than are imposed or required
by ordinances, agreements or covenants, the provisions of this chapter shall
control.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
DISTRICT DESCRIPTIONS AND GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 160.015 DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the city is divided into ten zoning
districts to be known as follows:
      (1)   Single-Family Residence District, or District R-1;
      (2)   Single-Family Residence District, or District R-1-A;
      (3)   Two-Family Residence District, or District R-2;
      (4)   Multi-Family Residence or Hotel-motel District, or District A-1;
      (5)   Mobile Home/Recreational Vehicle Park District, or District A-2;
      (6)   First Business District, or District B-1 Fire Zone;
      (7)   First Business District, or District B-1 Outside Fire Zone;
      (8)   Second Business District, or District B-2;
      (9)   Industrial District, or District H-1; and
      (10)   Planned Development District, or District PDD.
   (B)   The boundaries of the districts are shown upon a map which is made a
part of this chapter and which map is designated as the District Map. The
District Map and all the information shown thereon is a part of this chapter
and has the same force and effect as if the District Map and all the
information shown thereon were all fully set forth or described herein. The
original of this map is properly attested and on file with the City Secretary.
No building shall be erected or structurally altered, nor shall any building or
premises be used for any purpose other than as allowed by the use regulations
for the district in which the building or premises is located. No lot area
shall be reduced or diminished so that yards shall be smaller than described by
this chapter, nor shall the lot area per family be reduced in any manner except
in conformity with the regulations hereby established for the district in which
the building is located.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.016 DEFINITION AND PURPOSE OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   R-1 Single-Family Residential District. This district is intended to
be composed of single-family, detached dwellings on lots of not less than 6,000
square feet.
   (B)   R-1-A Modern Venice Residential District. This district is intended to
be composed of single-family dwellings, mobile homes and HUD-Code manufactured
homes. Mobile homes and HUD-Code manufactured homes are allowed in the east
addition, but prohibited in the west addition to the Modern Venice Subdivision.
   (C)   R-2 Two-Family Residential District. This district provides a low
density dwelling classification in the form of two-family or duplex dwellings.
   (D)   A-1 Multi-Family Residential District. This district is comprised of
all attached dwellings for more than two families in apartments, condominiums,
townhouses, motels and hotels.
   (E)   A-2 Mobile Home/Recreational Vehicle Park District. This district is
intended for the operation of mobile homes, HUD-Code manufactured homes and
recreational vehicle parks, recreational buildings, swimming pools, private
clubs, laundry and storage facilities for use of the residents of the parks.
   (F)   B-1 Business District Fire Zone. This district allows for
concentration of shopping oriented activities, administrative offices and
medical service activities.
   (G)   B-1 Business District Outside Fire Zone. This district allows all
activities allowed in B-1 Business District Fire Zone and also allows R-1, R-
2 and A-1 uses.
   (H)   B-2 Business District. This district concentrates business and service
activities, wholesale warehouse and storage activities.
   (I)   H-1 Industrial District-Heavy. This district provides for the location
of enterprises that tend to emit odors, noises, dust and vibration and that are
least compatible with other uses.
   (J)   PDD Planned Development District. This district provides for the
location of enterprises that tend to emit odors, noises, dust and vibration and
that are least compatible with other uses.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.017 TERRITORY ANNEXED INTO CITY LIMITS.
   All territory that may hereafter be annexed by the city shall be considered
to be zoned to a Residential R-1 classification until otherwise classified.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.018 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Unless otherwise specified hereinafter, the following general regulations
shall apply in all zoning districts.
   (A)   Sanitation. All buildings with toilet facilities shall have water and
sewer service provided by the Laguna Madre Water District. Chemical toilets may
be located and used only temporarily during construction.
   (B)   Code obedience. All construction subject to this chapter shall comply
with the current Building Code adopted by the city.
   (C)   Fire prevention. All walls, ceilings and floors which separate living
areas from work areas, garages, utility rooms or storage rooms shall be
constructed to provide a minimum one-hour fire barrier. In buildings consisting
of two or more dwelling units, each dwelling unit shall be separated by not
less than a one-hour fire barrier. All wall fire barriers shall extend from the
foundation continuously to the underside of the roof sheathing. Wooden shingles
are prohibited on new construction.
   (D)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings are allowed in all districts
and are restricted to the rear of lot behind the main building. The total floor
area of an accessory building shall not exceed 20% of the main building.
Accessory buildings shall observe the same minimum side-yard required by the
district, shall be distanced at least ten feet from the main building and any
other structure, shall be no closer than five feet from the rear lot line
unless otherwise allowed by this chapter, and shall occupy no more than 25% of
the rear yard area. No accessory buildings shall be used for dwelling purposes
except for domestic servants employed on the premises. No accessory building
may be constructed upon a lot until construction of the main building has
commenced.
   (E)   Temporary buildings. Temporary buildings used in connection with
construction are allowed in all districts for the duration of construction.
Temporary buildings used as field offices for the initial sale or lease of
property being developed are allowed for six months. No more than one temporary
building per project site is allowed. Permits shall be required prior to the
installation of a temporary building.
   (F)   Satellite dish installation. All satellite dish installation locations
with dish assemblies larger than one meter in diameter shall be restricted to
the rear of houses or buildings in a manner so as to be unobtrusive as
possible. All dish bases shall be constructed of concrete.
   (G)   Yards. Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky,
unobstructed except for accessory buildings in the rear yard and except for the
ordinary projection of sills, cornices and ornamental features projecting not
to exceed 18 inches. For the purpose of side yard regulations, a two-family,
group house or a multiple dwelling shall be considered as one building
occupying one lot.
   (H)   Fences. Fences may be constructed to a height not to exceed six feet
on the front yard line and eight feet on the side and rear yard property lines.
Fences on corner lots must be located no less than 50 feet from the center of
the street intersection or at a 45-degree angle from the corner of the curb
edge. In no instance shall any fence be constructed to obstruct the view of
vehicles approaching any intersection. Where a fence would square on the corner
that abuts an intersection, the section of fence entering the 50-feet
limitation from the intersection shall allow for 70% visibility. All front yard
fences or corner fences must have a gated or other opening sufficient to permit
access from the street for emergency personnel and equipment.
   (I)   Multiple buildings. More than one industrial, commercial, multiple-
dwelling or institutional building may be erected upon a single lot or tract,
but the yards and open spaces required around the boundaries of the lot or
tract shall not be encroached upon by any buildings, nor shall any building be
less than ten feet from any other structure, nor shall there be any change in
the intensity of use for that zoning district.
   (J)   Water frontage. The following regulations apply to all property in all
districts with water frontage:
      (1)   In those areas where docks, wharfs, seawalls or other similar
improvements are required or allowed, no improvement shall be installed,
erected or constructed without a building permit;
      (2)   All plans for boat docks, boat decks, boathouses, wharves or other
similar improvements on the water shall be certified by a professional
engineer;
      (3)   All waterfront property with a building or dwelling located thereon
shall have an approved seawall;
      (4)   A seawall shall be erected, installed or constructed prior to or
simultaneously with the construction of any building or placement of any fill
on the property;
      (5)   The seawall shall run the full width of the water frontage,
separating land from water. Due regard shall be given to adjacent, like
improvements with respect to size, similarity of design and in the method of
connecting the adjacent improvements; and
      (6)   There shall be no building meant for habitation built above the
seawall, where it extends over the water and/or beyond the seawall.
   (K)   Seawalls. The following regulations shall apply to seawalls.
      (1)   All seawalls shall be constructed with materials and in a manner so
as to embody its defined abilities and to serve its defined purpose. Seawalls
constructed of vertical panels, of sufficient strength for their particular
application, made of concrete or synthetic products, or a combination of these
materials, submerged below the level of the sea floor and protruding above the
sea floor to the earth level, each panel securely fitted or fastened to the
next panels and all panels horizontally secured as one by a cap of similar
material, and secured to the elevated earth using a “deadman” technique or a
similar securing method shall be acceptable. Any other method of seawall
construction which has been or can be shown to possess the definitional
qualities and abilities of a seawall may be permitted, except use of asbestos
sheets or any other harmful material which is expressly forbidden. In all
permit applications for a seawall, the Building Official shall have the right
to require sufficient information or an engineer’s certification satisfactorily
assuring the proposed construction meets the definitional qualities and
abilities set forth in this chapter as well as meeting the construction and
strength requirements for the particular application as set forth herein.
      (2)   Broken concrete or other discarded building materials (riprap)
placed at the shoreline does not qualify as a seawall. These materials may only
be placed in areas above the water line as a method of storm wave dissipation.
The materials may not be used near or in any navigable waters within the city
limits and shall not be used in any other way which may pose a hazard to
navigation.
   (L)   Placement of mobile homes and HUD-Code manufactured homes.
      (1)   Placement shall be made in a manner that there is no overhang over
a water surface.
      (2)   Placement shall be in a fixed position, with wheels removed.
      (3)   Mobile homes and HUD-Code manufactured homes shall meet the
required wind zone category for the city, be firmly anchored to the ground so
they do not become a destructive object during hurricanes, high wind or
flooding, and shall be installed at the required elevation and tied down,
pursuant to the provisions of state law.
      (4)   There shall be no aluminum wiring in the electrical system.
      (5)   Connections to the water and sewer shall be performed by a state
licensed plumber.
      (6)   The connection to electrical power shall be performed by a licensed
electrician.
      (7)   (a)   Prior to placement, the owner must obtain approval for the
placement location from the Building Department by fully completing an
application for placement of HUD-Code manufactured home which shall include:
            1.   The name of the home manufacturer, the make and model, HUD
label or state seal number, serial number, date of manufacture, wind zone
rating, and length and width size; and
            2.   The name, address, telephone number and registration number of
the installer of the home.
         (b)   In addition, prior to placement, the owner must apply for a
certificate of occupancy to be issued by the Building Department after
satisfactory inspection and approval. A fee of $35 must be paid in advance with
the application for the certificate of occupancy.
      (8)   Skirting shall be installed within 30 days of placement of the
mobile home or HUD-Code manufactured home. Skirting shall be constructed of
aluminum or vinyl specially designed for skirting; or a manufactured treated
wood lattice; or concrete or masonry blocks.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 605B, passed 11-14-2000; Ord. 605D, passed
11-26-2002; Ord. 605E, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 605-H, passed 3-12-2013)
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 160.030 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Public schools and churches, provided the site includes a corner lot;
   (C)   Public parks, playgrounds and libraries owned by the city;
   (D)   Kindergartens and day nurseries meeting all local, county, state and
federal regulations; and
   (E)   Home occupations.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.031 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed three standard stories in height.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.032 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a minimum depth of 15 feet from
the lot line.
      (2)   Where dwelling lot(s) have double frontage, the required front yard
shall be provided on both streets.
   (B)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard on each side of the lot having a
clear width of not less than five feet, including cornices, porches, stairways,
carports and the like. Eaves may overhang the structure but not to exceed one
and one-half feet into the side yard. For the construction of boat houses, and
other similar related construction, except for boat docks, there shall be a
side setback on each side of the lot having a clear width of not less than
three feet, including cornices, porches, stairways and eaves. The side yard
adjacent to a street shall not be less than ten feet, provided that the
buildable width of a lot of record shall not be reduced to less than 35 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than 20 feet
from the dwelling to the rear lot line.
      (2)   Where canals, bay front and yacht basins occur at rear of lots,
buildings may extend to the seawall, but no further.
   (D)   Area of lot and building.
      (1)   Minimum area. The minimum area of a lot shall be 6,000 square feet,
or as recorded in the Official Records of the county as of August 23, 1982,
except as set forth in division (E) below. However, no dwelling structure shall
be constructed on a lot less than 4,000 square feet.
      (2)   Width of lot. The minimum width of a lot shall be 50 feet, except
as set forth in division (E) below.
      (3)   Depth of lot. The minimum depth of a lot shall be 120 feet, except
as set forth in division (E) below.
      (4)   Area of building. The minimum area of a dwelling structure shall be
900 square feet.
   (E)   Lots less than 6,000 square feet.
      (1)   Subdivisions recorded prior to August 23, 1982, with a lot or lots
containing less than 6,000 square feet of lot area but having at least 4,000
square feet may have a single-family residence constructed on the lot provided
that the minimum dwelling area, and off-street parking requirements are met, as
set forth in the zoning district, and the front yard setback shall be not less
than 15 feet, the rear yard setback (where required) shall be no less than 20
feet, the side yard adjacent to a street shall be not less than seven feet, and
the side yard adjacent to neighboring property shall not be less than five
feet.
      (2)   There shall be a 25-foot height limit for buildings on lots less
than 6,000 square feet.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.033 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   A paved off-street parking space shall be provided on each site for at least
two motor vehicles per dwelling unit and the parking spaces shall be directly
accessible from the street by means of a paved driveway. No supporting member
of any garage, carport or any garage structure shall be located within the
required front yard depth. Dwelling units which contain more than one kitchen
area shall provide two parking spaces for each kitchen area.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 605C, passed 10-23-2001)
R-1-A MODERN VENICE, EAST AND WEST ADDITION DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 160.045 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Mobile homes and HUD-Code manufactured homes are prohibited in the
west addition to the Modern Venice Subdivision, and shall be prohibited from
new installation in the east addition after September 1, 2000. After September
1, 2000, any mobile home or HUD-Code manufactured home installed prior to
September 1, 2000 in the east addition may be replaced with a HUD-Code
manufactured home in accordance with V.A.T.S. Article 5221 f.
   (C)   Public park and refuge harbor owned and operated by the city. City has
a public park located on the East End of Block 3-B.
   (D)   Home occupations.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 605A, passed 3-14-2000)
§ 160.046 HEIGHTS AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height. No building shall exceed 30 feet in height.
   (B)   Lot area. No minimum lot size is established due to the topographical
lay out of the subdivision. Boat basins are allowed from the water property
lines into the lot.
   (C)   Dwelling area. No dwelling unit shall contain less than 700 square
feet of indoor living area. No mobile home or HUD-Code manufactured home shall
contain less than 500 square feet of indoor living area. Only one single-family
dwelling is permitted per lot.
   (D)   Coverage. The maximum coverage of the lot by a dwelling shall be
determined by setbacks in relation to the size and shape of the lot. The city
will be the final authority in determining the maximum size a building can be
constructed on a lot less than 50 feet wide.
   (E)   Front yard. The structure on mobile home overhangs, porches, carports
or garage, or any other building, shall be a minimum five feet from the front
lot line.
   (F)   Rear yard. No rear yard depth restrictions. Dwelling structures may
extend to the seawall, but no further.
   (G)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard on each side of the lot having a
clear width of not less than five feet, including cornices, porches, stairways,
carports and the like. Eaves may overhang the structure, but not to exceed one
and one-half feet into the side yard. For the construction of boat houses, and
other similar related construction, except for boat docks, there shall be a
side setback on each side of the lot having a clear width of not less than
three feet, including cornices, porches, stairways and eaves. The side yard
adjacent to a street shall not be less than seven feet.
   (H)   Width. The minimum width of a lot shall be 50 feet for each single-
family dwelling unit or, since the lots vary greatly in size, the city will
determine allowable construction area on lots of less than 50 feet.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.047 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   A paved off-street parking space shall be provided on each site for at least
two motor vehicles per dwelling unit and the parking spaces shall be directly
accessible from the street by means of a paved driveway. Dwelling units which
contain more than one kitchen area shall provide two parking spaces for each
kitchen area.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 605C, passed 10-23-2001)
R-2 TWO-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 160.060 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-1 Residential District;
   (B)   Duplex dwelling with separate plumbing and electrical facilities for
each dwelling; and
   (C)   Telephone exchange and private utilities office located on a collector
or major street only.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.061 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Same as R-1 District.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.062 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. Same as R-1 District.
   (B)   Side yards. Same as R-1 District.
   (C)   Rear yard. Same as R-1 District.
   (D)   Area of lot. Same as R-1 District.
   (E)   Width of lot. Same as R-1 District.
   (F)   Depth of lot. Same as R-1 District.
   (G)   Area of building. Same as R-1 District.
   (H)   Lot less than 6,000 square feet. Duplex dwellings must have a minimum
lot area of 6,000 square feet and a minimum building area of 1,200 square feet.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.063 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   Paved off-street parking spaces directly accessible from the street, by
means of a paved driveway shall be provided on the lot to accommodate at least
two motor cars for each dwelling unit. However, no supporting member of any
garage, carport or any garage structure, shall be located within the setback
area required for the front yard.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
A-1 HOTEL, MOTEL, MULTI-FAMILY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 160.075 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-2 District;
   (B)   Townhouses;
   (C)   Apartment buildings;
   (D)   Boarding and lodging houses;
   (E)   Hotels, motels and condominiums. Hotels, motels and condominiums which
may have businesses such as cafés, barber shops, beauty parlors, gift shops and
other similar businesses normally associated with the businesses located within
the confines of the hotel, motel or condominium; and
   (F)   Hospitals, clinics, convalescent homes and day care centers meeting
all local, county, state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.076 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   There are no maximum height of buildings, but yard requirements for
buildings higher than six standard stories shall meet the requirements of §
160.075(D), and in no case shall the height of the building exceed the total
width of the street right-of-way on which it faces plus the depth of the front
yard.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.077 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a minimum depth of ten feet from
the lot line.
      (2)   Where lots have double frontage running through from one street to
another, the required front yard shall be provided on both streets.
      (3)   The minimum front yard shall be increased one foot for each two
feet in height if the building exceeds six standard stories.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   There shall be a side yard on each side of the lot having a clear
width of not less than five feet, including projections from the side of the
building, such as eaves, cornices, porches, stairways and carports. For the
construction of boat houses, boat sheds and similar construction, there shall
be a side setback on each side of the lot having a clear width of not less than
three feet, including cornices, porches, stairways and eaves, but excluding
boat docks. The side yard adjacent to a side street shall not be less than ten
feet, provided that the buildable width of the lot a lot of record shall not be
reduced to less than 35 feet. Except for boat houses and similar construction,
there shall be no building or structure built above the seawall in the setback
area where it extends over the water or beyond the seawall. The seawall must
extend to the property line on each side of the property.
      (2)   The side yard shall be increased four feet for each story the
building exceeds three standard stories in height, including eaves, cornices,
porches, stairways and carports.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   No house or structure of any classification shall be erected any
closer than ten feet of the rear lot line.
      (2)   Accessory buildings shall be at least five feet from the rear lot
line.
      (3)   The minimum rear yard depth shall be increased one foot for each
two feet in height if the building exceeds six standard stories.
      (4)   Where canals, bay fronts and yacht basins occur at rear of lots,
buildings may extend up to the seawall, but no further.
   (D)   Area of lot. The minimum area of a lot shall be 10,000 square feet,
except as set forth in division (H) below.
   (E)   Width of lot. The minimum width of a lot shall be 100 feet, except as
set forth in division (H) below.
   (F)   Depth of lot. The minimum depth of a lot shall be 100 feet, except as
set forth in division (H) below.
   (G)   Areas of building. The minimum area of a building structure shall be
1,500 square feet.
   (H)   Lots less than 6,000 square feet. Subdivisions legally recorded prior
to August 23, 1982, containing less than 6,000 square feet but, more than 4,000
square feet of lot area, may have a dwelling structure constructed on the lot,
provided all setback, minimum dwelling area and off-street parking requirements
are met, as set forth in this zoning district.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.078 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a structure is erected or converted for single-family or
multiple-family dwelling units, two paved off-street parking space(s) directly
accessible from the street by means of a paved driveway, shall be provided on
the lot for each dwelling unit in the structure.
   (B)   Churches shall provide one off-street parking space for each five
seats.
   (C)   Schools shall provide one off-street parking space for each ten
students plus one space for each employee.
   (D)   Hospitals shall provide two off-street parking spaces for each five
beds.
   (E)   Clinics shall provide two off-street parking spaces for each 250
square feet of floor space within the building but in no case shall there be
less than five off-street parking spaces provided.
   (F)   Hotels and motels shall provide two off-street parking spaces for each
rental unit in the building.
   (G)   Lodging and boarding houses shall provide a minimum of two off-street
parking spaces plus one parking space for each guest bedroom.
   (H)   Condominiums shall provide two off-street parking spaces for each
dwelling unit.
   (I)   No parking garage or structure shall be erected in a required front or
side yard.
   (J)   All parking spaces shall be a minimum of nine feet in width and 18
feet in length. They shall be paved and be directly accessible from the street
by means of a paved driveway. Whenever a structure is erected or converted for
single-family or multiple-family dwelling units, two paved off-street parking
space(s) directly accessible from the street by means of a paved driveway,
shall be provided on the lot for each dwelling unit in the structure.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 605C, passed 10-23-2001)
§ 160.079 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No multi-family dwelling over one standard story in height shall be
constructed as a Type VI structure as that type of construction is defined by §
608 of the Standard Building Code of 1999.
   (B)   No building over one standard story in height, if constructed as a
Type VI structure as that type of construction is defined by § 608 of the
Standard Building Code of 1999, shall be used or occupied as a multi-family
dwelling.
(Ord. 605D, passed 11-26-2002)
§ 160.080 R-1 OR R-2 IN A-1 DISTRICT.
   Any R-1 or R-2 use in A-1 Districts shall conform to all the area and
parking regulations of R-1 or R-2 Districts.
(Ord. 605D, passed 11-26-2002)
A-2 MOBILE HOME AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK DISTRICT
§ 160.095 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Mobile home parks. Mobile homes and HUD-Code manufactured homes. Any
use permitted in the B-1 Business District is permitted provided the use fronts
on State Highway 100.
   (B)   Recreational vehicle parks. Recreational vehicles.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 605-G, passed 3-8-2011; Ord. 605-H, passed 3-
12-2013)
§ 160.096 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Mobile homes parks.
      (1)   Every mobile home park will be located on a well-drained site and
will be properly graded so as to prevent the accumulation of storm or casual
waters.
      (2)   Homes will be placed within the mobile home park with not less than
40 feet between each home.
      (3)   Homes will be placed not closer than 15 feet from a mobile home
park property line.
      (4)   All streets within a mobile home park will be a minimum of 22 feet
in width, having a paved surface minimum base depth of not less than six
inches, and a pavement surface thickness not less than one and one-half inches.
      (5)   All homes will abut a street located within a mobile home park.
      (6)   All lots will have not less than two spaces for parking of motor
vehicles with such spaces located off a mobile home park street serving the
lots.
      (7)   Every home will be tied with an anchoring system meeting the
requirements of the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs,
Manufactured Housing Division, and will otherwise comply with all federal and
state law concerning mobile homes and HUD-Code manufactured homes.
      (8)   Every home within the mobile home park will have a stoop, porch,
patio, steps or deck at each entrance to the home.
      (9)   Every lot will have its own water meter and electric meter or will
be served by a master meter owned by the respective service provider.
      (10)   The floor level of a home will be not less than 18 inches above
ground level.
      (11)   Electrical supply for each home will be a minimum of a 200
amperes, 120-220 volt single phase electrical system.
      (12)   Only one home will be placed on a lot within a mobile home park.
      (13)   No recreational vehicle will be permitted within a mobile home
park.
      (14)   Only one storage building will be permitted per lot within a
mobile home park and the floor area of the storage building will not exceed 100
square feet.
   (B)   Recreational vehicle parks.
      (1)   A recreational vehicle park will consist of a land area not less
than two acres.
      (2)   Vehicle spaces in a recreational vehicle park will not exceed 15
vehicles per acre.
      (3)   Parking and storage of trucks exceeding two-ton capacity and all
construction-type equipment are prohibited in a recreational vehicle park, with
the exception of a truck used to pull a recreational vehicle.
      (4)   No home occupation will be conducted within a recreational vehicle
park.
      (5)   Every recreational vehicle space will consist of an area not less
than 1,200 square feet that will provide adequate area for one recreational
vehicle and one off-street parking space for a motor vehicle other than a
recreational vehicle.
      (6)   No structural addition to a recreational vehicle will be permitted.
      (7)   An enclosed area for refuse containers will be provided within
every recreational vehicle park.
      (8)   Utility services, including water, electrical, and sewer will be
provided. Electrical service provided will be a minimum of 100 amperes, 120-220
volt single phase.
      (9)   Every recreational vehicle park will be provided with means of
lighting the park at night which shall be kept lighted during the time from
one-half hour after sunset until one-half hour before sunrise.
      (10)   All streets within a recreational vehicle park will be not less
than 20 feet in width having a paved surface with a minimum base depth of not
less than six inches, and a pavement surface thickness not less than one and
one-half inches.
      (11)   A commercial store with a contiguous parking area designed to
serve the needs of travelers patronizing a recreational vehicle park is
permitted provided the area of the store and contiguous parking area do not
exceed 5% of the total area of a recreational vehicle park.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Am. Ord. 605-G, passed 3-8-2011)
B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT FIRE ZONE
§ 160.110 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No dwelling units shall be allowed;
   (B)   Banks and offices;
   (C)   Restaurants, cafés and bars;
   (D)   Retail stores;
   (E)   Dry cleaners and laundromats;
   (F)   Bakeries;
   (G)   Barber and beauty shops;
   (H)   Theaters;
   (I)   Gasoline service stations permitted only if they are located on a
corner lot;
   (J)   Post offices and other governmental buildings;
   (K)   Liquor sales; and
   (L)   The above specified stores, shops or businesses shall be
establishments selling merchandise primarily at retail and conducted wholly
within enclosed buildings.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 605D, passed 11-26-2002)
§ 160.111 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The Port Isabel lighthouse has long been a symbol of the city and identifies
the uniqueness of the city to its citizens and to all persons which pass
through. In order to preserve unrestricted visual access to this most valuable
and symbolic structure the following height limitations shall apply. No
building shall exceed two stories, or 25 feet in height in block numbers 7, 21,
34, 47, 56, 73 or 18 feet in block 119, all lots being located between State
Highway 100 and Maxan Street running from Yturria Street to the Laguna Madre.
All other buildings and structures within the B-1 Business District shall not
exceed 30 feet in height.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.112 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. No restrictions.
   (B)   Side yard. All structures shall either be on the line or be set back
at least five feet from the line. For those structures abutting a side street
the building may be built up to the property line on the side street.
   (C)   Rear yard. No restrictions.
   (D)   Area of lot. The minimum area of a lot shall be 6,000 square feet or
as recorded in the County Courthouse as of August 23, 1982.
   (E)   Width of lot. The minimum width of the lot shall be 50 feet or as
recorded in the County Courthouse as of August 23, 1982.
   (F)   Depth of lot. The minimum depth of the lot shall be 120 feet as
recorded in the County Courthouse as of August 23, 1982.
   (G)   Size of structure. The minimum size of the structure shall be 900
square feet.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.113 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Theaters shall provide off-street parking in a ratio of one space for
each ten seats.
   (B)   Restaurants and cafés shall provide off-street parking in a ratio of
one and one half space for each 100 square feet of dining area.
   (C)   Retail stores and office buildings shall provide off-street parking on
the lot in a ratio of one space for each 300 square feet of sales or office
area, excluding restrooms, mechanical equipment rooms, closets and storage
rooms.
   (D)   Retail, office and service buildings shall provide and maintain off-
street facilities for the loading and unloading of merchandise and goods so
that no part of the truck or trailer will be in the dedicated street, alley or
easement during loading or unloading.
   (E)   All parking spaces shall be paved and be directly accessible from the
street by means of a paved driveway and a minimum of eight and one-half feet
wide by 18 feet in depth.
   (F)   New businesses seeking certificates of occupancy in existing buildings
which, because of the building’s proximity to city rights-of-way cannot provide
the required parking, shall not be required to meet the parking regulation
requirements of divisions (A) through (D) of this section.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT OUTSIDE FIRE ZONE
§ 160.125 USE REGULATIONS.
   Any use permitted in B-1 Fire Zone and any use permitted in R-1, R-2 and A-
1.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.126 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 60 feet in height.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.127 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   All other regulations of B-1 Fire Zone shall apply, except when used as R-1,
R-2 or A-1 the regulations for those districts shall apply.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
B-2 BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 160.140 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the B-1 Business District Fire Zone and B-
1 Business District Outside Fire Zone with special permission;
   (B)   Any use permitted in the A-1 District by special permission;
   (C)   Automotive service garages, automobile sales areas and public garages;
   (D)   Lumber yards;
   (E)   Storage yards and storage buildings. All properties or any part
thereof used primary for storage of property, including vehicles, not otherwise
obscured by a building or structure shall be fenced with a screening fence on
all sides of the property;
   (F)   Docks for storage of small boats or pleasure craft;
   (G)   Small boat or pleasure craft sales and service;
   (H)   Bowling alleys and skating rinks;
   (I)   Wholesale business;
   (J)   Light manufacturing;
   (K)   Car wash; and
   (L)   Any similar uses not likely to create any offensive noise, vibration,
dust, smoke, that is odor, glare or other objectionable influences than the
minimum amount normally resulting from either uses permitted, the permitted
uses being generally wholesale, service industries and other business uses.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.141 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Same as A-1 District.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.142 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. Same as B-1 District.
   (B)   Side yard. Same as B-1 District.
   (C)   Rear yard. Same as B-1 District.
   (D)   Area of lot. Same as B-1 District.
   (E)   Width of lot. Same as B-1 District.
   (F)   Depth of lot. Same as B-1 District.
   (G)   Size of structure. Same as B-1 District.
   (H)   Parking regulations. Same as B-1 District.
   (I)   Protection to adjacent property. In those cases where a B-2 use
adjoins, abuts or faces an A-1, A-2, R-1 or R-2 District, adequate landscaping
or screening fence shall be provided to visually separate both uses.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.143 A-2 IN B-2 DISTRICT.
   Any A-2 use in the B-2 District shall conform to all the area and parking
requirements of the A-2 District.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
H-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 160.155 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the B-2 District.
   (B)   (1)   Any use not in conflict with the laws of the state, or any
ordinance of the city; provided, that no building or premises shall be used for
any of the following specific purposes until approved by and subject to the
requirements as the City Commission may consider necessary to protect adjacent
property and prevent hazardous, polluting, noisy or offensive conditions; to
wit:
      (2)   Chemical manufacturing, dead animals, distillations of animal
parts, fat rendering, fertilizer manufacturing, food processing plants, garbage
disposal, glue manufacturing, junk yards or auto salvage, stock yards or
slaughtering of animals, kennels, storage of semitrailers, propane sales; §
160.157 below; or any other use of buildings, or land, that could constitute a
nuisance or would be hazardous to the public health, safety or general welfare.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.156 HEIGHT, AREA AND OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height. No restrictions.
   (B)   Lot area. No restrictions.
   (C)   Coverage. No restrictions.
   (D)   Front yards. No restrictions.
   (E)   Side yards. No restrictions.
   (F)   Rear yards. No restrictions.
   (G)   Parking. Same as B-2.
   (H)   Lot dimensions. No restrictions.
   (I)   Protection to adjacent property. Where a heavy industrial use abuts,
adjoins, or faces an A-1, A-2, R-1, or R-2 District screening fence or wall
shall be provided to visually separate the districts.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.157 OTHER RESTRICTIONS.
   Propane sales and storage, whether mobile or stationary shall be allowed
only in H-1 Heavy Industrial District. When mobile, the truck shall either
continue to service customers at various addresses throughout the city, or
return to it’s location in the H-1 District. It shall be deemed illegal to
service multiple customers from any one location in the city, outside of the H-
1 District. Propane storage whether stationary or mobile, shall be a minimum of
500 feet from any residential lot line.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
PDD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 160.170 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   The City Commission, after public hearing and proper notice to all parties
affected and after recommendation from the City Planning and Zoning Commission,
may authorize the creation of planned development districts of designated size,
of a minimum of five acres, permitting but not limited to, the following uses:
   (A)   Shopping center;
   (B)   Residential development with neighborhood services or A-2 Mobile Home/
Recreational Vehicle Park District;
   (C)   Medical center and hospital;
   (D)   Civic center and community center;
   (E)   Office or business center;
   (F)   Recreation center;
   (G)   Industrial center; and
   (H)   A combination of any of the developments listed in divisions (A)
through (G) above with the exception of A-2 Mobile Home/Recreational Vehicle
Park District as set out in division (B) above.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 605D, passed 11-26-2002)
§ 160.171 REQUIREMENTS OF PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   In establishing a Planned Development District in accordance with this
section, the City Commission shall require a comprehensive site plan of the
development. The site plan shall be approved and filed as part of an ordinance
prior to issuance of any building permit in a Planned Development District. The
required plan and ordinance shall set forth the requirements for ingress and
egress to the property, public or private streets or drives with adequate
right-of-way to conform to the Thoroughfare Plan of the city, and shall include
sidewalks, utilities, drainage, parking space, height of building, maximum lot
coverage, yards and open spaces, screening walls or fences and other
development and protective requirements considered necessary to create a
reasonable transition into and protection of adjacent properties. In approving
the Planned Development District, the City Commission may impose conditions
which shall be complied with before a certificate of occupancy is issued for
the use of the land or any structure which is part of the Planned Development
District.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.172 MOBILE HOME/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   Mobile homes and recreational vehicles shall not be permitted in a Planned
Development District if a residential development is submitted as a part of the
planned submission. It is the intent of this chapter to allow either the
residential development with neighborhood services or Mobile Home/Recreational
Vehicle Planned Development within one overall planned development district,
but not both.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
NONCONFORMING USES AND SPECIAL PERMITS
§ 160.185 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   The lawful use of a building existing prior to August 23, 1982 may be
continued even though the use does not conform with the provisions herein. Use
of a building which becomes nonconforming due to a change of zoning may be
continued. However, when the nonconforming use of a building has been changed
to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, the use shall not thereafter
be changed to a nonconforming use or a less restricted use.
   (B)   No building which has been damaged to the extent of more than 50% of
its market value may be repaired except in conformity with the regulations of
this chapter.
   (C)   In the event that the nonconforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a period of six months, the
use of the same shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located.
   (D)   A nonconforming use occupying only a portion of a building may be
extended throughout the building if the same has been lawfully acquired and
actually devoted to the use prior to August 23,1982.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.186 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   The City Commission may, by special permit, after public hearing and subject
to the protective restrictions that are deemed necessary, authorize the
location, extension or structural alteration of any of the following buildings
or uses, or an increase in their height, in any district from which they are
prohibited or limited by this chapter:
   (A)   Any public building erected and used by a department of a municipal,
county, state or federal government;
   (B)   Hospitals, clinics and institutions, except institutions for criminals
or those for persons who are mentally ill or have contagious diseases;
provided, however, that the buildings may occupy not over 50% of the total area
of the lot or tract and will not have any serious or depreciating effect upon
the value of the surrounding property, and provided further, that the buildings
shall be set back from all yard lines heretofore established an additional
distance of not less than one foot for every foot of building height, and that
adequate off-street parking space will be provided;
   (C)   Cemetery or mausoleum;
   (D)   Landing field or landing strip for aircraft;
   (E)   Greenhouses and nurseries;
   (F)   Farms;
   (G)   Roadside stands, commercial amusement or recreational development for
temporary or seasonal periods;
   (H)   Removal of gravel, topsoil or similar materials;
   (I)   Riding stables;
   (J)   Parking lots on land not more than 300 feet from the boundary of any
commercial or industrial district, under conditions as will protect the
character of surrounding property;
   (K)   Areas for the dumping or disposal of trash;
   (L)   Radio towers and radio broadcasting stations;
   (M)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevators, fire towers, monuments, stacks,
stage towers, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers, spires and church
steeples; and
   (N)   Any use that is not a nuisance per se and which is generally similar
to the uses permitted in the district in which the use is located by special
permit.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 160.200 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment consisting of five members,
and two alternate members, each to be appointed by the City Commission for a
term of two years. The City Commission may remove a member for cause, as found
by the City Commission, on a written charge after a public hearing, or for no
cause at the Commission's discretion. Members shall be residents of Port
Isabel, Texas. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment of the City Commission.
The replacement shall serve out the unexpired term of any member whose place on
the Board has become vacant.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 605D, passed 11-26-2002; Am. Ord. 605-F,
passed 1-11-2011)
§ 160.201 NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
   The Board shall consist of five members, four being a minimum for a quorum.
No elected official or employee of the city shall serve on the Board.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 605D, passed 11-26-2002)
§ 160.202 MEETINGS.
   Board of Adjustment meetings shall be held on the first Tuesday of the
month, 6:30 p.m. with, at minimum, one scheduled meeting per month. Additional
meetings may be held from time to time upon the request of the Chairperson.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.203 ABSENTEES.
   Three consecutive absences from meetings of the Board shall cause the
position to be vacated. In addition, the position of any member who has four
absences in a 12-month period shall also cause the position to be vacated.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 605D, passed 11-26-2002)
§ 160.204 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   Officers shall be elected annually at the first regular scheduled meeting in
the month of June.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.205 WAITING PERIOD.
   (A)   The Board may have a waiting period of ten minutes after the scheduled
time to achieve a quorum to proceed.
   (B)   The Board is hereby vested with power and authority in appropriate
cases and subject to appropriate conditions and safeguards to make exemptions
to the terms of this chapter in harmony with its general purpose and intent and
in accordance with general or special rules therein contained for the purpose
of rendering full justice and equity to the general public.
   (C)   The Board may adopt rules to govern its proceedings provided, however,
that the rules are not inconsistent with this chapter or law. Meetings of the
Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at other time as the
Board may determine. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the acting
Chairperson, may administer oath and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes
of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if
absent, or failing to vote, indicate the fact and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be filed
immediately in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.206 APPEALS TO BOARD.
   (A)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved by, or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city
affected by any decision of the Enforcement Officer. The appeal shall be taken
within 15 days time after the decision has been rendered by the Enforcement
Officer, by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the
Board of Adjustment, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
official from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board
all the papers constituting the record upon which the appealed action was
taken.
   (B)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings of the action appealed from,
unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of
Adjustment after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In that case, proceedings
shall not be stayed, otherwise, than by a restraining order which may be
granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on
notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall set a reasonable time for the hearing of
an appeal, give the public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties
in interest and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any
party may appear in person or by attorney or by agent.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.207 POWERS OF BOARD.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administration
official in the enforcement of these zoning regulations;
   (B)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of these zoning
regulations upon which the Board is required to pass;
   (C)   To authorize upon appeal in special cases, the variances from the
terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where,
owing to special conditions, the literal enforcement of the provisions of the
chapter will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of this
chapter shall be observed and substantial justice done;
   (D)   In exercising its powers the Board may, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from and make the order, requirement, decision or determination as
ought to be made and shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken;
   (E)   The concurring vote of 75% of the members of the Board, regardless of
the number present for any meeting or hearing, is necessary to reverse an
order, requirement, decision, or determination of an administrative official,
or to decide in favor of an applicant on a matter on which the Board is
required to pass under this chapter, or to authorize a variance from the terms
of this chapter; and
   (F)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustments or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board
or bureau of the city may present to a court of record a petition, duly
verified, setting forth that the decision is illegal, in whole or in part,
specifying the grounds of the illegality. The petition shall be presented to
the court within ten days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board and not thereafter. Proceedings in the court shall be as provided in the
State Local Government Code.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 605D, passed 11-26-2002; Am. Ord. 605-F,
passed 1-11-2011)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 160.220 OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   No change in the use or occupancy of land, nor any change of use occupancy
in an existing building, except solely for single-family dwelling purposes,
shall be made, nor shall any new building be occupied for any purpose, nor
shall any new business begin operation, nor shall any ongoing business operated
by a new individual or entity begin operation until a certificate of occupancy
has been issued by the Enforcement Officer. Every certificate of occupancy
shall state the new occupancy complies with all provisions of this chapter and
any applicable building codes. A fee of $35 will be charged for each
certificate of occupancy and the fee shall include an inspection to ensure
compliance.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.221 PLATS.
   Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a plat in
duplicate, or duplicate prints thereof, drawn to scale, showing the actual
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size, shape and location of the
buildings to be erected, the size, shape and location of any existing
buildings, and any other information as may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of this chapter. A record of applications and plats shall be kept
in the office of the Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.222 BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS; RULES WHERE UNCERTAINTY MAY ARISE.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the map accompanying and made a part of this chapter, the
following rules apply:
   (A)   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise
shown, and where the districts designated on the map accompanying and made a
part of this chapter are bounded approximately by street or alley lines, the
street or alley shall be construed to be the boundary of the district;
   (B)   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated, and where
the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the
districts designated on the map accompanying and made a part of this chapter
are approximately by lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the
boundary of the districts unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on the
map; and
   (C)   In any unsubdivided property the district boundary lines on the
district map accompanying and made a part of this chapter shall be determined
by use of the scale appearing on the map.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
ENFORCEMENT, CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS
§ 160.235 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Enforcement Officer to enforce this chapter.
Appeal from the decision of the Enforcement Officer may be made to the Board of
Adjustment.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 160.236 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations imposed and the districts created by this chapter may
be amended from time to time. Before any variance, zoning change or special use
request is granted or considered by the City Commission, Board of Adjustment or
the Planning and Zoning Commission, a notice shall be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the city at least 15 days prior to the hearing
advising the public of the hearing date, time and place and giving the legal
description and address of the property in question. In addition, the City
Secretary shall cause a notice to be mailed to all property owners owning
property within 200 feet of the site in question at least 15 days prior to any
public hearing held on the variance, zoning change or special use request. The
notice and mailed notifications shall explain the protest rights of property
owners set forth in division (D) herein and shall contain a response form. A
charge of $200 shall be assessed against the applicant for a variance request,
zoning change or special use request, to cover publication and administrative
expenses.
   (B)   Variances and special use permits are to be used within 90 days of
issuance by the person requesting it. Variances and special use permits are
nontransferable and, if not implemented within 90 days, the use reverts back to
its previous designation as if no variance or special use permit had been
allowed.
   (C)   If the zoning change is for an existing structure and the new zoning
is not utilized within one year after rezoning, the property’s zoning reverts
back to its previous zoning designation. If the zoning change is for proposed
development, the development must be substantially complete within two years
after rezoning or the property’s zoning reverts back to its previous zoning
designation.
   (D)   If, after notification, 20% of the property owners within 200 feet of
the site in question file a letter of protest, which includes their address and
signature, with the City Secretary, or if the Planning and Zoning Commission
recommends against the proposed request, the request may be approved and passed
by the City Commission only upon a two-thirds vote in favor of the proposed
request.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000)
PLACEMENT OF ELEVATED STRUCTURES
§ 160.240 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABANDONED. Any structure that has not been in use for more than six months,
or for which the required liability insurance is not in place, or which
otherwise does not meet the continuing requirements of this subchapter.
   AGGREGATE HEIGHT. The total height of the structure, including any structure
upon which it is attached, as measured from the ground to its highest point.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURES. Means and includes:
      (1)   Any free-standing structure upon which lights, speakers, sirens,
antennae, platforms or other items are attached, or which is greater than 30
feet, when measured from the base of the structure to its highest point.
      (2)   Any structure attached to another structure for the purpose of
mounting or supporting lights, speakers, sirens, antennae, platforms or other
items.
(Ord. 692, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 160.241 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter is not, and shall not, be held to be applicable to:
   (A)   Structures erected by units of government; and
   (B)   Mobile elevated structures attached to moveable equipment, provided
such mobile elevated structures are not in use for a period of greater than 90
days in a calendar year, and are not placed within 100 feet of a residence,
park or school.
(Ord. 692, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 160.242 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The placement of elevated structures shall not be permitted on rights-
of-way.
   (B)   All elevated structures placed within the jurisdiction of the city
shall be set back from all occupied structures not used for industrial
purposes, and from all adjacent roadways, by a distance equal to the height of
the tower, plus 20 feet.
   (C)   No elevated structures with an aggregate height greater than 50 feet
may be placed in residential areas.
   (D)   In the event a tower is disused, dilapidated or abandoned, it shall be
removed by the owner, at his or her expense.
   (E)   The owners of all elevated structures must obtain and maintain in
force liability insurance with an aggregate limit of no less than $2,000,000 at
all times that the tower is present in the city’s jurisdiction.
   (F)   Prior to the placement of the tower, the owner of the tower must
obtain a permit from the city for the placement of the tower, and such
application must be addressed to the Building Inspector, and be accompanied by
evidence of permission from the owner of the property or structure upon which
the tower will be erected, as well as compliance with these regulations.
   (G)   The owners of all elevated structures must annually obtain a permit
from the city for the continued operation of the tower. Such application shall
be accompanied by evidence of the continuing maintenance of the tower, as well
as evidence of a liability insurance policy of at least $2,000,000.
   (H)   Permits issued for the construction of elevated structures shall be
valid for a period of six months, and shall require the payment of a fee equal
to the greater of $1,000 or 1% of the cost of the tower. Such permits shall not
be transferable. The permit must be displayed at all times during the
construction of the tower.
   (I)   Permits issued for the operation of elevated structures shall be valid
for one year, and shall require the payment of a fee of $200. The name of the
permit holder must be stenciled or posted on the tower, or in the case of an
attached tower, on an element near the ground, such that it is visible from the
ground.
   (J)   In the event that the issuance of a permit is denied by the Building
Inspector, the applicant may appeal to the Board of Aldermen, who shall have
final authority to grant or deny the appeal.
(Ord. 692, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 160.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $200 for
each offense. Each day that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, altered,
repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land is used
in violation of this chapter, the Enforcement Officer, in addition to other
remedies, may institute any proper action or proceedings in the name of the
city to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, alteration, repairs,
conversion, maintenance, or use, to restrain, correct or abate the violation,
to prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or land, or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about the premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of §§
160.240 through
160.242. Violations hereof shall be considered a Class C misdemeanor, and shall
be subject to a penalty not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 605, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 692, passed 4-25-2017)
CHAPTER 161: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Methods
   
161.01   Statutory authorization
   
161.02   Findings of fact
   
161.03   Statement of purpose
   
161.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
Definitions
   
161.10   Definitions
General Provisions
   
161.15   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
161.16   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
161.17   Establishment of development permit
   
161.18   Compliance
   
161.19   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
161.20   Interpretation
   
161.21   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
161.30   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
161.31   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
161.32   Permit procedures
   
161.33   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
161.40   General standards
   
161.41   Specific standards
   
161.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
161.43   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones)
   
161.44   Coastal high hazard areas
 
   
161.99   Penalties for non-compliance
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
§ 161.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Texas has in the Flood Control Insurance
Act, Texas Water Code, § 16.315 delegated the responsibility of local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the City Commission of the City of Port Isabel, Texas does ordain as
follows.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
2018 S-10
   (G)   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
DEFINITIONS
§ 161.10 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1%-annual chance (100 year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed
rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year. Also called the BASE FLOOD.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. This specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY. 
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of §
60.3 of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides
and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the primary frontal
dune occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a relatively
steep slope to a relatively mild slope.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage," regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure."
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements see § 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §
60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to
be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 161.15 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.16 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
"The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Cameron County, Texas and Incorporated
Area," dated February 16, 2018, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
and/or Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps (FIRM and/or FBFM) dated February 16, 2018
and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this chapter.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.17 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.18 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.19 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.20 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.21 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 161.30 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Building Official of the city is hereby appointed the Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (Emergency Management and Assistance -
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain
management.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.31 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval is required;
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency which is the Texas Water Development Board (TWDB) and also
the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
161.16, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
161.40 through
161.44;
   (I)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community; and
   (J)   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, § 65.12, of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided that
the community first completes all of the provisions required by § 65.12.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.32 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
161.41(2);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
161.32(B)(1).
   (B)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.33 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of 1/2 acre or less in size contiguous to
and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
161.32(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the 1/
2 half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of §
161.03.
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) of this section
are met; and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 161.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
161.16,
161.31(H), or
161.42(C), the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to a minimum of 12 inches above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to a minimum
of 12 inches above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, or be designed so that the structure is watertight to a
minimum level of 12 inches above the BFE with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review
structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall
certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice. A record of such certification which includes
the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures
are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites: (i)
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing manufactured
home park or subdivision, or (iv) in an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a
result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home is elevated to a minimum of 12 inches above the
base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
division (D) of this section be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the
base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM either: (i) be on
the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days, (ii) be fully licensed and ready
for highway use, or (iii) meet the permit requirements of §
161.32(1), and the elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured
homes" in division (D) of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site
only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
161.02,
161.03 and
161.04.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
161.17,
161.32; and the provisions of §§
161.40 through
161.44.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
161.16 or
161.31(H).
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.43 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
161.16, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,
and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by
ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the
base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least two feet if no
depth number is specified).
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the
base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least two feet if no
depth number is specified); or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that below the base specified flood depth in an AO Zone, or below the Base
Flood Elevation in an AH Zone level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in §
161.32 are satisfied.
   (D)   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.44 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
161.16, are areas designated as Coastal High Hazard Areas (Zones V1-30, VE,
and/or V). These areas have special flood hazards associated with high velocity
waters from tidal surges and hurricane wave wash; therefore, in addition to
meeting all provisions outlined in this chapter, the following provisions must
also apply:
   (A)   Obtain the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the bottom of
the lowest structural member of the lowest floor (excluding pilings and
columns) of all new and substantially improved structures, and whether or not
such structures contain a basement. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain
a record of all such information.
   (B)   All new construction shall be located landward of the reach of mean
high tide.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated on
pilings and columns so that:
      (1)   The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest
floor (excluding the pilings or columns) is elevated to or above the base flood
level;
      (2)   The pile or column foundation and structure attached thereto is
anchored to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement due to the effects
of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building components. Water
loading values used shall be those associated with the base flood. Wind loading
values used shall be those required by applicable state or local building
standards. A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop or
review the structural design, specifications and plans for the construction,
and shall certify that the design and methods of construction to be used are in
accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions of
divisions (C)(1) and (2) of this section.
   (D)   (1)   Provide that all new construction and substantial improvements
have the space below the lowest floor either free of obstruction or constructed
with non-supporting breakaway walls, open wood lattice-work, or insect
screening intended to collapse under wind and water loads without causing
collapse, displacement, or other structural damage to the elevated portion of
the building or supporting foundation system.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, a breakaway wall shall have a
design safe loading resistance of not less than ten and no more than 20 pounds
per square foot. Use of breakaway walls which exceed a design safe loading
resistance of 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required
by local or state codes) may be permitted only if a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that the designs proposed meet the following
conditions:
         (a)   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood; and
         (b)   The elevated portion of the building and supporting foundation
system shall not be subject to collapse, displacement, or other structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all
building components (structural and nonstructural). Water loading values used
shall be those associated with the base flood. Wind loading values used shall
be those required by applicable State or local building standards. Such
enclosed space shall be useable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage. Such space shall not be used for human habitation.
   (E)   Prohibit the use of fill for structural support of buildings.
   (F)   Prohibit man-made alteration of sand dunes and mangrove stands that
increase potential flood damage.
   (G)   Manufactured homes.  Require that manufactured homes placed or
substantially improved within Zone V1-30, V, and VE on the community's FIRM on
sites: (i) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision, or (iv) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial
damage" as the result of a flood, meet the standards of divisions (A) through
(F) of this section and that manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved on other sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
within Zones V1-30, V, and VE on the community's FIRM meet the requirements of
§
161.41(D).
   (H)   Recreational vehicles.  Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones V1-30, V, and VE on the community's FIRM either: (i) be on
the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days, or (ii) be fully licensed and
ready for highway use, or (iii) meet the requirements in §
161.17 and divisions (A) through (F) of this section. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
§ 161.99 PENALTIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $500 for each violation, and in addition shall pay
all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall
prevent the City Commission from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 593-A, passed 1-17-2018)
CHAPTER 162: NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGES
Section
   
162.01   Purpose
   
162.02   Definitions
   
162.03   Applicability
   
162.04   Responsibility for administration
   
162.05   Severability
   
162.06   Ultimate responsibility
   
162.07   Development of a stormwater design manual
   
162.08   General discharge prohibitions
   
162.09   Specific prohibition and requirements
   
162.10   New development and redevelopment permit procedures and requirements
   
162.11   New development and redevelopment sustainable drainage and impervious
surface area
   
162.12   Construction site general requirements
   
162.13   One or more acres of construction disturbances
   
162.14   Waivers to stormwater management requirements
   
162.15   Suspension of MS4 access
   
162.16   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
162.17   Monitoring of discharges
   
162.18   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
162.19   Watercourse protection
   
162.20   Release reporting and cleanup
   
162.21   Enforcement; notice of violation
   
162.22   Appeal of notice of violation
   
162.23   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
162.24   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
162.25   Injunctive relief
   
162.26   Compensatory action
   
162.27   Violations deemed a public nusiance
   
162.28   Criminal prosecution
   
162.29   Remedies not exclusive
   
162.30   Fines and policy
   
162.31   Adoption of chapter
§ 162.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the City of Port Isabel through the
regulation of non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system or
watercourses to the maximum extent practicable. This chapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) or other watercourses. The objectives of this
chapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
   (B)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system;
   (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter; and
   (D)   To regulate unmitigated stormwater runoff from impervious surfaces
into city storm drainage systems or other watercourses, and require stormwater
detention or retention at commercial, industrial, or multi-resident sites.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following shall mean:
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the director of the
municipal agency, the TCEQ, and/or the EPA designated to enforce this chapter
and/or to enforce the TPDES and/or to enforce the NPDES regulations.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to TPDES construction permits.
Currently these include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
one acre or more, as defined by the TPDES program. Such activities include but
are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, demolition
stockpiles, borrow areas, concrete truck washouts, fueling areas, material
storage and equipment storage areas.
   EROSION. The process by which the land surface is worn away by the action of
water or wind.
   FINAL STABILIZATION. The status when all soil disturbing activities at a
site have been completed, and a uniform perennial vegetative cover with a
density of 70% of the cover for unpaved areas and areas not covered by
permanent structures has been established, or equivalent permanent
stabilization measures (such as the use of riprap, gabions, or geotextiles)
have been employed.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
storm drain system.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system
including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater
discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the
storm drain system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor
drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been
previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency
or, any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use
to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by the authorized enforcement agency, or
approved by an individual NPDES or TPDES permit or, any direct connection to an
MS4 pipe without mitigation by approved BMPs to mitigate nonpoint source
pollutant loading including, but not limited to, litter, soil, oil, or
automotive fluids.
   IMPERVIOUS COVER/SURFACE. Those surfaces that cannot effectively infiltrate
rainfall (including such things as building rooftops, pavement, sidewalks,
paved and unpaved driveways, parking areas, and streets, but not including
swimming pools and ponds).
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR, §122.26(b)(14).
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). The system of conveyances
(including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, man-made channels, or storm drains) owned and operated by the
city and designated or used for collecting or conveying storm water, and which
is not used for collecting or conveying sewage.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that
authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether
the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   OIL. Any solid or liquid viscous substance of plant, animal, or mineral
origin, which does not dissolve in water.
   OPERATOR. The person or persons who, either individually or taken together,
meet the following two criteria:
      (1)   They have operational control over the facility specifications
(including the ability to make modifications in specifications; and
      (2)   They have the day-to-day operational control over those activities
at the facility necessary to ensure compliance with pollution prevention
requirements and any permit conditions.
   OWNER. The person who owns a facility, property, or part of a facility or
property.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, yard waste, soil, dead animals, or other
discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may
cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and
fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and
pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues
that result from constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive
matter of any kind.
   POLLUTION. The alteration of the physical thermal, chemical, or biological
quality of, or the contamination of, any water in the state that renders the
water harmful, detrimental, or injurious to humans, animal life, vegetation, or
property, or to the public health, safety, or welfare, or impairs the
usefulness or the public enjoyment of the water for any lawful or reasonable
purpose.
   PREMISES.  Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   SEDIMENTATION. The movement and settling out of suspension of soil
particles.
   SOIL. Substances which comprise dirt including, but not limited to, sand,
gravel, decomposed organic matter, or other substances which comprise earth.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). Is a site specific, written
document that identifies potential sources of stormwater pollution at the
construction site, describes practices to reduce pollutants in stormwater
discharges, stormwater conveyance systems, and/or receiving waters to the
maximum extent practicable.
   TEXAS POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (TPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the State of Texas, namely the Texas Commission on
Environmental Commission (TCEQ), under authority delegated pursuant to 33
U.S.C. § 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the
United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or
general area-wide basis.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
   WATERCOURSE. A permanent or intermittent stream or other body of water,
either natural or man-made and either fresh water or salt water, which gathers
or carries surface water.
   WATERCOURSE EDGE. The interface zone between the land and a watercourse,
including riparian, littoral, and esturarine areas, shorelines, banks, beaches,
tidal flats, and wetlands.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass clippings, yard and garden debris, and brush that
results from landscaping maintenance and land-clearing operations.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the MS4 or watercourses that
is generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted
by an authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The City of Port Isabel shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the director of
the authorized enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency.
   (B)   Solely the authorized individual under this section designated to
enforce this chapter shall have the authority to enforce this chapter in its
entirety and shall be designated as a TPDES stormwater manager and/or
inspector. The City of Port Isabel and its representatives shall issue these
individuals identification credentials, and provide annual training to assure
compliance with the laws of the state and federal regulators.
   (C)   All municipal departments shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter and are required to incorporate the authority of the authorized
individual into its respective daily operations.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.05 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
chapter.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.06 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.07 DEVELOPMENT OF A STORMWATER DESIGN MANUAL.
   The City of Port Isabel has adopted the "Guidance for Sustainable Stormwater
Drainage on the Texas Coast" as the local design manual. This manual includes a
list of acceptable stormwater treatment practices, including the specific
design criteria and operation and maintenance requirements for each stormwater
practice. The manual may be updated and expanded from time to time, at the
discretion of the city, based on improvements in engineering, science,
monitoring and local maintenance experience. Stormwater treatment practices
that are designed and constructed in accordance with these design and sizing
criteria will be presumed to meet the minimum water quality performance
standards of 80% removal of total suspended solids (TSS).
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.08 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges. No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the MS4 or a watercourse any discharge that is not
composed entirely of storm water, including but not limited to pollutants or
waters containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of
applicable water quality standards, other than stormwater. The commencement,
conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the MS4 or a watercourse is
prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes, illicit connections made in
the past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or
practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection except as
described as follows:
      (1)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural habitat or wetland flows, swimming
pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than one PPM chlorine), fire fighting
activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
      (2)   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement
agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
      (3)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires authorization
by the authorized enforcement agency, prior to the time of the test.
      (4)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under a TPDES or NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order
issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the TCEQ or
the EPA, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.09 SPECIFIC PROHIBITION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The specific prohibitions and requirements in this section are not
inclusive of all the discharges prohibited by the general prohibitions.
   (B)   No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the MS4 or a
watercourse any discharge that causes or contributes to causing the city to
violate the standards of a TPDES permit.
   (C)   No person shall dump, spill, leak, pump, pour, emit, empty, discharge,
leach, dispose, or otherwise introduce or cause, allow, or permit to be
introduced any of the following substances into the MS4:
      (1)   Any used motor oil, antifreeze, or any other motor vehicle fluid;
      (2)   Any industrial waste;
      (3)   Any hazardous waste, including hazardous household waste;
      (4)   Any domestic sewage or septic tank waste, grease trap waste, or
grit trap waste;
      (5)   Any garbage, rubbish, or yard waste;
      (6)   Any dumpster, or trailer overflow:
         (a)   All individuals, businesses and/or firms renting dumpsters in
Port Isabel shall be responsible for:
            1.   Keeping dumpster(s) covered at all times;
            2.   Maintaining their dumpster(s) and the area around their
dumpster(s) in a clean and sanitary condition;
            3.   Providing an adequately sized dumpster with necessary pickups
in order to prevent the overflow of refuse; and
            4.   All commercial garbage receptacles must have a roof covering
and be enclosed on all sides as per specifications set out by the City of Port
Isabel;
         (b)   All individuals, businesses and/or firms utilizing trailers to
store or transport household refuse and/or construction debris, shall keep
trailers covered with a secured tarp at all times in order to prevent the
release of windblown refuse or debris;
         (c)   Any individual, business and/or firm failing to maintain a
dumpster or trailer in accordance with these regulations shall be subject to a
fine of up to $250;
      (7)   Any wastewater from a commercial carwash facility; from any vehicle
washing, cleaning, or maintenance at any new or used automobile or other
vehicle dealership, rental agency, body shop, repair shop, or maintenance
facility; or from any washing, cleaning, or maintenance of any business or
commercial or public service vehicle, including a truck, bus, or heavy
equipment;
      (8)   Any wastewater from a commercial mobile power washer or from the
washing or other cleaning of a building exterior that contains any soap,
detergent, degreaser, solvent, or any other harmful cleaning substance;
      (9)   Any wastewater from commercial floor, rug, or carpet cleaning;
      (10)   Any wastewater from the wash down or other cleaning of pavement
that contains any harmful quantity of soap, detergent, solvent, degreaser,
emulsifier, dispersant, or any other harmful cleaning substance; or any
wastewater from the wash down or other cleaning of any pavement where any
spill, leak, or other release of oil, motor fuel, or other petroleum or
hazardous substance has occurred, unless all harmful quantities of such
released material have been previously removed;
      (11)   Any effluent from a cooling tower, condenser, compressor,
emissions scrubber, emissions filter, or the blow down from a boiler;
      (12)   Any ready-mixed concrete, mortar, ceramic, or asphalt base
material or hydro mulch material, or from the cleaning of vehicles or equipment
containing, or used in transporting or applying, such material;
      (13)   Any filter backwash from a swimming pool, fountain, or spa;
      (14)   Any water from a water curtain in a spray room used for painting
vehicles or equipment;
      (15)   Any contaminated runoff from a vehicle wrecking yard;
      (16)   Any substance or material that will damage, block, or clog the
MS4; or
      (17)   Any release from a petroleum storage tank (PST), or any leachate
or runoff from soil contaminated by a leaking PST, or any discharge of pumped,
confined, or treated wastewater from the remediation of any such PST release,
unless the discharge satisfies all of the following criteria:
         (a)   Compliance with all state and federal standards and
requirements;
         (b)   No discharge containing a harmful quantity of any pollutant; and
         (c)   No discharge containing more than 50 parts per billion of
benzene; 500 parts per billion combined total quantities of benzene, toluene,
methylbenzene, and xylem (BTEX); or 15 mg/1 of total petroleum hydrocarbons
(TPH).
   (D)   No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the MS4 any
harmful quantity of sediment, silt, earth, soil, or other material associated
with clearing, grading, excavation or other construction activities, or
associated with land filling or other placement or disposal of soil, rock, or
other earth materials, in excess of what could be retained on site or captured
by employing sediment and erosion control measures to the maximum extent
practicable.
   (E)   No person shall connect a line conveying sanitary sewage, domestic or
industrial, to the MS4, or allow such a connection to continue.
   (F)   No person shall cause or allow any pavement wash water from a service
station to be discharged into the MS4 unless such wash water has passed through
a properly functioning and maintained, grease, oil, and sand interceptor before
discharge into the MS4.
   (G)   Regulation of pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers.
      (1)   Any sale, distribution, application, labeling, manufacture,
transportation, storage, or disposal of a pesticide, herbicide, or fertilizer
must comply fully with all state and federal statutes and regulations
including, without limitation, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) and all federal regulations promulgated pursuant to
FIFRA; Chapters 63, 75, and 76 of the Texas Agriculture Code and all state
regulations promulgated pursuant thereto; and any other state or federal
requirement.
      (2)   Any license, permit, registration, certification, or evidence of
financial responsibility required by state or federal law for sale,
distribution, application, manufacturer, transportation, storage, or disposal
of a pesticide, herbicide or fertilizer must be presented to the City of Port
Isabel and any city law enforcement officer for examination upon request.
      (3)   No person shall use or cause to be used any pesticide or herbicide
contrary to any directions for use on any labeling required by state or federal
statute or regulation.
      (4)   No person shall use or cause to be used any pesticide, herbicide,
or fertilizer in any manner that the person knows, or reasonably should know,
is likely to cause, or does cause, a harmful quantity of the pesticide,
herbicide, or fertilizer to enter the MS4 or a watercourse.
      (5)   No person shall dispose of, discard, store, or transport a
pesticide, herbicide, or fertilizer, or a pesticide, herbicide, or fertilizer
container, in a manner that the person knows, or reasonably should know, is
likely to cause, or does cause, a harmful quantity of the pesticide, herbicide,
or fertilizer to enter the MS4 or a watercourse.
   (H)   Used oil regulation. No person shall:
      (1)   Discharge motor vehicle oil into the MS4 or a sewer, drainage
system, septic tank, surface water, groundwater, or a watercourse;
      (2)   Knowingly mix or commingle used oil with solid waste that is to be
disposed of in a landfill or knowingly directly dispose of used oil on land or
in a landfill; or
      (3)   Apply used oil to a road or land for dust suppression, weed
abatement, or other similar use that introduces used oil into the environment.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.10 NEW DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   A city stormwater permit is required for all commercial, industrial, or
multi-residential development or redevelopment or for new development or
redevelopment projects that disturb one acre or more of land, including
projects less than one acre that are part of a larger common plan of
development or sale that will result in disturbance of one acre or more.
   (A)   Application submittal requirements. The following information must be
submitted to the municipality for any new development where the impervious
cover of the site is greater than 20% and the project disturbs one acre or more
of land or is part of a larger common plan of development or sale that will
result in disturbance of one acre or more. The applicant must include a signed
copy of its Notice of Intent (NOI) for a TPDES General Permit for Storm Water
Discharges from Construction Sites, if one is required by the state; a copy of
the SWPPP, a copy of the stormwater management concept plan, a copy of the
stormwater BMP maintenance agreement, and any required fees. This material must
be accompanied with a letter signed and sealed by a licensed engineer
indicating that all drainage requirements in this guidance document have been
met.
      (1)   Site analysis and narrative.
         (a)   Location map, size, and existing land use of the site;
         (b)   Description of existing land use of all adjacent properties;
         (c)   General description of existing site topography, natural and
manmade features, county's watershed name, drainage patterns, flow paths,
receiving waters, soil types and ground cover;
         (d)   Identify if the following exist on-site:
            1.   Any body of water, including natural and manmade drainage
paths, identifying each as natural or not;
            2.   Any natural depressions or areas identified as probable areas
of inundation for the 100-year storm event;
            3.   A general description of the proposed uses and improvements,
lot subdivision, roadways, and other pertinent improvements; and
            4.   Phasing and timing of project;
         (e)   A general description of proposed drainage, water quality, and
erosion and sediment control facilities expected to be used on;
         (f)   Site and the methodology for choosing the facilities;
         (g)   Total site area and impervious cover planned for the
development;
         (h)   Provide a description of the potential pollutant activities to
be conducted at the site, if applicable. Such activities of interest include
chemical storage and/or use, vehicle, equipment or boat repair and maintenance,
on-site wastewater treatment, product fabrication or washing/cleaning
activities;
         (i)   Confirmation that all applicable regulations and public health
and safety requirements will be met by the developer/contractor/ builder; and
         (j)   A simple drawing to depict the proposed layout, impervious cover
areas, general hydrologic information, on-site and adjacent drainage conditions
and improvements, and other pertinent information required for site stormwater
assessment (a conceptual plan).
      (2)   Site layout and drainage design.
         (a)   Legend, north arrow and scale;
         (b)   Existing property lines, ROWs, structures, impervious surfaces
and improvements;
         (c)   Existing topography - contours;
            1.   Location of FEMA 100-year Floodplain, Floodway, and Velocity
Zone Boundaries that encroach on the site;
         (d)   Existing drainage patterns, flow paths, stormwater discharge
locations, drainage easements;
         (e)   Limits of existing disturbed area;
         (f)   Proposed lots and/or building locations, ROWs, roadway locations
and cross sections impervious surface areas and pavement types;
         (g)   Proposed grading (contours or elevations), drainage patterns and
basins, discharge locations, and proposed easements;
         (h)   Size and location and basis of design for all permanent drainage
and stormwater quality improvements including: culverts, pipes, detention
basins, swales, etc.);
         (i)   Drainage system maintenance;
         (j)   Contact information of end-user responsible for inspection,
maintenance and repair of stormwater management system (i.e. property owner,
Homeowners Association, etc.);
         (k)   If facilities are to be publicly maintained, municipal staff may
benefit from establishing an inspection plan and maintenance plan; and
         (l)   If facilities are to be privately maintained, include:
            1.   Inspection plan, which identifies the procedures that will be
used to ensure the timely inspection of the control measures; and
            2.   A description of the maintenance plan for stormwater
management devices and practices including operational and physical measures
and a proposed schedule.
   (B)   Application review fee. The fee for review of a land development
application shall be based on the amount of land to be disturbed, and a fee
structure shall be established by the city.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.11 NEW DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT SUSTAINABLE DRAINAGE AND IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE AREA.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. 
      (1)   These minimum requirements apply to all new development and
redevelopment projects that disturb one acre or more of land, including
projects less than one acre that are part of a larger common plan of
development or sale that will result in disturbance of one acre or more.
Projects whose final level of impervious cover is less than 20% are exempt,
since the low level of development inherently results in little or no impact to
water quality. Impervious cover includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Pavement including streets, sidewalks, driveways, parking lots,
etc.;
         (b)   Rooftops if not part of a rainwater harvesting system;
         (c)   Compacted road base, such as that used for parking areas; and
         (d)   Other surfaces that prevent the infiltration of water into the
soil.
      (2)   Bicycle and pedestrian paths separated from other impervious
surfaces by a distance of at least ten feet, except at intersections, are
considered sustainable and do not require any special runoff management.
      (3)   When the development project includes residential tracts that will
be developed subsequently, and whose future impervious level is unknown, the
assumptions presented in the following table should be used. The values in this
table do not include the area of the streets in the development.
   Table: Impervious Cover Assumptions for Residential Tracts
 
Lot Size                          Assume Impervious Cover (sq. ft.)
> 3 acres                         10,00
Between 1 and 3 acres             7,000
Between 15,000 sq. ft. and 1 acre 5,000
Between 10,000 and 15,000 sq. ft. 4,000
Between 5,000 and 10,000 sq. ft.  3,500
< 5,000 sq. ft.                   70% of lot size
 
      (4)   There are two options available to meet the sustainable drainage
requirements: payment in lieu or use of at least one of the structural controls
described below to manage stormwater runoff from the site.
         (a)   Payment in lieu. The payment in lieu option requires the
developer to make a payment of $50,000 per impervious acre created (not total
project size) into an account whose funds may only be used for drainage
improvements that reduce the discharge of pollutants from the drainage system.
         (b)   Structural controls. Stormwater runoff generated on the site
must be managed through the use of one or more of these structural practices
(guidelines available from City Hall):
            1.   Vegetated swale;
            2.   Vegetated filter strip;
            3.   Porous pavement;
            4.   Enhanced detention;
            5.   Bioretention/rain gardens; and
            6.   Infiltration basins.
      (5)   For the structural practices that are sized based on runoff volume
(bioretention, enhanced detention, infiltration basins), the capture volume
must be sized to accommodate the runoff from a 1.0" rainfall event at a
minimum. The runoff coefficient is a function of the impervious cover and is
calculated as:
            Rv = 0.05 + 0.90IC
         Where:
            Rv = Runoff Coefficient
            IC = Fraction of impervious cover in the catchment of the
structural practice
         The minimum capture volume is then calculated as:
            V = P x A x Rv/12
         Where:
            V = Minimum required capture volume P = Rainfall depth (1.0 inches)
            A = Catchment area of the practice (ft2) Rv = Runoff Coefficient
      (6)   Additionally, watercourse edge buffers should be provided between
any development and all natural bodies of water. The buffer width needed to
perform properly will depend on the size of the stream and the surrounding
conditions, but a minimum 25-foot undisturbed vegetative buffer is recommended
for all water courses, even the smallest perennial streams. Where feasible,
watercourse edge buffers should be sized to include the 100-year floodplain.
      (7)   This first 25-foot section should be a zero-development zone.
Buffer zones should generally remain free of construction, development, or
other alterations. The number of roadways crossing through the buffer zones
should be minimized and constructed only when necessary, such as when a
significant portion of the site can only be reached by crossing a buffer zone.
Other alterations within buffer zones beyond the 25-foot minimum could include
utility crossings, but only when necessary, fences, low impact parks, and open
space. Roadways and utilities crossings should be approximately perpendicular
to the buffer zone. Low impact park development within the buffer zone should
be limited to trails, picnic facilities, and similar construction that do not
significantly alter the existing vegetation. Parking lots and roads
significantly alter existing vegetation and are not considered low impact.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.12 CONSTRUCTION SITE GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All operators of construction sites shall use best management
practices to control and reduce the discharge, to the MS4 and to watercourses,
of sediment, silt, earth, soil, and other material associated with the
clearing, grading, excavation, and other construction activities to the maximum
extent practicable. Such best management practices may include, but not be
limited to, the following measures:
      (1)   Ensuring that existing vegetation is preserved and that disturbed
portions of the site are stabilized as soon as practicable in portions of the
site where construction activities have temporarily or permanently ceased.
Stabilization measures may include: temporary seeding, permanent seeding,
mulching, geotextiles, sod stabilization, vegetative buffer strips, protection
of trees, preservation of mature vegetation, and other appropriate measures;
      (2)   Use of structural practices to divert flows from exposed soils,
store flows, or otherwise limit runoff and the discharge of pollutants from the
site to the extent feasible;
      (3)   Minimization of the tracking of sediments off-site by vehicles, the
generation of dust, and the escape of other windblown waste from the site;
      (4)   Prevention of the discharge of building materials, including
cement, lime, concrete, and mortar, to the MS4 or watercourses;
      (5)   A single, on-site location, shall be erected with an appropriate
BMP, in order to allow for concrete truck washout, to ensure zero percent
leaching into surrounding soil;
      (6)   Providing general good housekeeping measures to prevent and contain
spills of paints, solvents, fuels, septic waste, and other hazardous chemicals
and pollutants associated with construction, and to assure proper cleanup and
disposal of any such spills in compliance with state, federal, and local
requirements. All portable fueling tanks used to fuel onsite construction
equipment shall have secondary containment;
      (7)   Implementation of proper waste disposal and waste management
techniques, including covering waste materials and minimizing ground contact
with hazardous chemicals and trash;
      (8)   Timely maintenance of vegetation, erosion and sediment control
measures, and other best management practices in good and effective operating
condition; and
      (9)   Installation of structural measures during the construction process
to control pollutants in storm water discharges that will occur after
construction operations have been completed. Structural measures should be
placed on upland soils to the degree attainable. Such installed structural
measures may include, but not be limited to, the following: storm water
detention structures (including wet ponds); storm water retention structures;
flow attenuation by use of open vegetative swales and natural depressions;
other velocity dissipation devices; infiltration of runoff on site; and
sequential systems which combine several practices. Operators of construction
sites are only responsible for the installation and maintenance of storm water
management measures prior to final stabilization of the site, and are not
responsible for maintenance after storm water discharges associated with
construction activity have terminated.
   (B)   Qualified personnel (provided by the operator of the construction
site) shall inspect disturbed areas of any construction site that have not been
finally stabilized, areas used for storage of materials that are exposed to
precipitation, structural control measures, and locations where vehicles enter
or exit the site, at least once every 14 calendar days and within 24 hours of
the end of a storm that is 0.5 inches or greater. All erosion and sediment
control measures and other identified best management practices shall be
observed in order to ensure that they are operating correctly and are effective
in preventing significant impacts to receiving waters and the MS4. Based on the
results of the inspection, best management practices shall be revised as
appropriate, and as soon as is practicable.
   (C)   The city may deny approval of any building permit, grading permit,
certificate of occupancy, subdivision plat, site development plan, or any other
city approval necessary to commence or continue construction, or to assume
occupancy, on the grounds that the management practices described in the plans
or observed upon a site inspection by the city are determined not to control
and reduce the discharge of sediment, silt, earth, soil, and other materials
associated with clearing, grading, excavation, and other construction
activities to the maximum extent practicable.
   (D)   Any contractor or subcontractor on a site of construction activity,
who is not an owner or operator, but who is responsible under his/her contract
or subcontract for implementing a best management practices control measure, is
jointly and severally responsible for any willful or negligent failure on his/
her part to adequately implement that control measure.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.13 ONE OR MORE ACRES OF CONSTRUCTION DISTURBANCES.
   All operators of sites of construction activity, including clearing,
grading, and excavation activities, that result in the disturbance of one or
more acres of total land area, or that are part of a common plan of development
or sale within which one or more acres of total land area are disturbed, or who
are required to obtain a TPDES permit for storm water discharges associated
with construction activity, shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Any operator who intends to obtain coverage for storm water discharges
from a construction site under the TPDES General Permit for Storm Water
Discharges from Construction Sites ("the Storm Water Quality Permit") shall
submit a signed copy of its Notice of Intent (NOI) to the city at least seven
days prior to the commencement of any construction activities.
   (B)   A Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) shall be prepared and
implemented in accordance with the requirements of the TPDES Construction
General permit issued for storm water discharges from the construction site,
and with any additional requirement imposed by or under this chapter and any
other city ordinance.
   (C)   Upon the city's review of the SWPPP and any site inspection that he/
she may conduct, the city may deny approval of any building permit, grading
permit, certificate of occupancy, subdivision plat, site development plan, or
any other city approval necessary to commence or continue construction, or to
assume occupancy, on the grounds that the SWPPP does not comply with the
requirements of the Construction General Permit, any individual or group TPDES
permit issued for storm water discharge from the construction site, or any
additional requirement imposed by or under this chapter. Also, if at any time
the city determines that the SWPPP is not being fully implemented, the city may
similarly deny approval of any building permit, grading permit, certificate of
occupancy subdivision plat, site development plan or any other city approval
necessary to commence or continue construction, or to assume occupancy, at the
site.
   (D)   All contractors and subcontractors identified in an SWPPP shall sign a
copy of the following certification statement before conducting any
professional service identified in the SWPPP:
      (1)   I certify under penalty of law that I understand the terms and
conditions of the Texas Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (TPDES) permit
that authorizes the storm water discharges associated with activity from the
construction site identified as part of this certification, with the Storm
Water Ordinance of the City of Port Isabel, and with those provisions of the
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) for the construction site for
which I am responsible.
      (2)   The certification must include the name and title of the person
providing the signature; the name, address, and telephone number of the
contracting firm; the address of the site; and the date the certification is
made.
   (E)   The operator shall make the SWPPP and any modification thereto
available to the city upon request.
   (F)   The city may notify the operator at any time that the SWPPP does not
meet the requirements of the Construction General Permit, any applicable
individual or group TPDES permit issued for storm water discharges from the
construction site, or any additional requirement imposed by or under this
chapter. Such notification shall identify those provisions of the permit or
chapter, which are not being met by the SWPPP, and identify which provisions of
the SWPPP require modifications in order to meet such requirements. Within
seven days of such notification from the city, the operator shall make the
required changes to the SWPPP and shall submit to the city a written
certification that the requested changes have been made.
   (G)   The operator shall amend the SWPPP whenever there is a change in
design, construction, operation, or maintenance, which has a significant effect
on the potential for the discharge of pollutants to the MS4 or to watercourses,
and which has not otherwise been addressed in the SWPPP, or if the SWPPP proves
to be ineffective in eliminating or significantly minimizing pollutants, or in
otherwise achieving the general objective of controlling pollutants in storm
water discharges associated with construction activity. In addition, the SWPPP
shall be amended to identify any new contractor and/or subcontractor that will
implement a measure in the SWPPP.
   (H)   Qualified personnel (provided by the operator of the construction
site) shall inspect disturbed areas of the construction site that have not been
finally stabilized, areas used for storage of materials that are exposed to
precipitation, structural control measures, and locations where vehicles enter
or exit the site, at least once every 14 calendar days and within 24 hours of
the end of a storm event of 0.5 inches or greater. Disturbed areas and areas
used for storage of materials that are exposed to precipitation shall be
inspected for evidence of, or the potential for, pollutants entering the
drainage system. Erosion and sediment control measures identified in the SWPPP
shall be observed to ensure that they are operating correctly. Where discharge
locations or points are accessible, they shall be inspected to ascertain
whether erosion control measures are effective in preventing significant
impacts to receiving waters or the MS4. Locations where vehicles enter or exit
the site shall be inspected daily for evidence of off-site sediment tracking,
remediation of tracking on city streets shall be swept, picked up and disposed
of properly.
   (I)   Based on the results of the inspections required by this section, the
site description and/or the pollution prevention measures identified in the
SWPPP shall be revised as appropriate, but in no case later than seven calendar
days following the inspection. Such modifications shall provide for timely
implementation of any changes to the SWPPP within seven calendar days following
the inspection.
   (J)   A report summarizing the scope of any inspection required by this
section, and the name(s) and qualifications of personnel making the inspection,
the date(s) of the inspection, major observations relating to the
implementation of the SWPPP, and actions taken in accordance with above shall
be made and retained as part of the SWPPP for at least three years from the
date that the site is finally stabilized. Such report shall identify any
incidence of noncompliance. Where a report does not identify any incidence of
noncompliance, the report shall contain a certification that the facility is in
compliance with the SWPPP, the facility's TPDES permit, and this chapter. The
report shall be certified and signed by the person responsible for making it.
   (K)   The operator shall retain copies of any SWPPP and all reports required
by this chapter or by the TPDES permit for the site, and records of all data
used to complete the NOI, for a period of at least three years from the date
that the site is finally stabilized.
   (L)   Where a site has been finally stabilized and all storm water
discharges from construction activities that are authorized by this chapter and
by the TPDES permit for those construction activities are eliminated, or where
the operator of all storm water discharges at a facility changes, the operator
of the construction site shall submit to the City a Notice of Termination (NOT)
that includes the information required for Notices of Termination by the
Construction General Permit.
   (M)   Upon final stabilization of the construction site, the owner (or the
duly authorized representative thereof) shall submit written certification to
the city that the site has been finally stabilized. (See definition of final
stabilization in this chapter.) The city may withhold a certificate of
occupancy or use permit for any premises constructed on the site until such
certification of final stabilization has been filed and the city has
determined, following any appropriate inspection, that final stabilization has,
in fact, occurred and that any required permanent structural controls have been
completed.
   (N)   Weekly on-site meetings shall be conducted to ensure compliance with
TPDES permit and city ordinance guidelines.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.14 WAIVERS TO STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every applicant shall provide for stormwater management as required by
this section, unless a written request is filed to waive this requirement.
Requests to waive the stormwater management plan requirements shall be
submitted to the city for approval.
   (B)   The minimum requirements for stormwater management may be waived in
whole or in part upon written request of the applicant, provided that at least
one of the following conditions applies:
      (1)   It can be demonstrated that the proposed development is not likely
to impair attainment of the objectives of this chapter.
      (2)   Alternative minimum requirements for on-site management of
stormwater discharges have been established in a stormwater management plan
that has been approved by the city and the implementation of the plan is
required by local ordinance.
      (3)   Provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off-site facility.
The off-site facility is required to be in place, to be designed and adequately
sized to provide a level of stormwater control that is equal to or greater than
that which would be afforded by on-site practices and there is a legally
obligated entity responsible for long-term operation and maintenance of the
stormwater practice.
      (4)   The city finds that meeting the minimum on-site management
requirements is not feasible due to the natural or existing physical
characteristics of a site.
   (C)   In instances where one of the conditions above applies, the city may
grant a waiver from strict compliance with these stormwater management
provisions, as long as acceptable mitigation measures are provided.
   (D)   Furthermore, where compliance with minimum requirements for stormwater
management is waived, the applicant will satisfy the minimum requirements by
meeting one of the mitigation measures selected by the city. Mitigation
measures may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The purchase and donation of privately owned lands, or the grant of
an easement to be dedicated for preservation and/or reforestation. These lands
should be located adjacent to a watercourse in order to provide permanent
buffer areas to protect water quality and aquatic habitat;
      (2)   The creation of a stormwater management facility or other drainage
improvements on previously developed properties, public or private, that
currently lack stormwater management facilities designed and constructed in
accordance with the purposes and standards of this chapter; and
      (3)   Monetary contributions (Payment-in-Lieu) to fund stormwater
management activities such as research and studies (e.g., regional wetland
delineation studies, stream monitoring studies for water quality and
macroinvertebrates, stream flow monitoring, threatened and endangered species
studies, hydrologic studies, drainage improvements, and monitoring of
stormwater management practices.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.15 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The City
of Port Isabel, without prior notice, shall suspend MS4 discharge access to a
person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or a
watercourse. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in
an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or watercourse, or to
minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this section may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the authorized
enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.16 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity TPDES or NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the City of Port Isabel prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.17 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The City of Port Isabel and/or its authorized representatives shall
be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this
chapter as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
If a discharger has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the
authorized enforcement agency.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the City of Port Isabel and/or its
authorized representatives to have access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and copying of records that must
be kept under the conditions of a TPDES or NPDES permit to discharge
stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined by state
and federal law.
      (3)   The City of Port Isabel and/or its authorized representatives have
the right to set up on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in
the opinion of the authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
      (4)   The City of Port Isabel and/or its authorized representatives have
the right to require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as
necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its
own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be
calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the City of Port Isabel and/or its
authorized representatives' operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the City of Port Isabel and/or its
authorized representatives access to a permitted facility is a violation of a
stormwater discharge permit and of this section. A person who is the operator
of a facility with a TPDES or NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated
with industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the authorized
enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose
of conducting any activity authorized or required by this chapter.
      (7)   If the City of Port Isabel and/or its authorized representatives
has been refused access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is
discharged, and he/she is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that
there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect
and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to
verify compliance with this section or any order issued hereunder, or to
protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then
the authorized enforcement agency may seek issuance of a search warrant from
any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.18 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The City of Port Isabel has adopted requirements identifying Best Management
Practices for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or
contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system,
or waters of the state and U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial or
industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the MS4 or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-
structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premise,
which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to
implement, at said person's expense, additional structural and non-structural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of TPDES or NPDES
permit standards authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with
industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with
the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWP3) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of TPDES or NPDES permit standards.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.19 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.20 RELEASE REPORTING AND CLEANUP.
   (A)   The person in charge of any facility, vehicle, or other source of any
spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, escaping,
leaching, dumping, disposing, or any other release of any of the following
quantities of any of the following substances that may flow, leach, enter, or
otherwise be introduced into the MS4 or a watercourse, shall immediately
telephone and notify the city concerning the incident:
      (1)   An amount equal to or in excess of a reportable quantity of any
hazardous substance, as established under 40 CFR Part 302;
      (2)   An amount equal to or in excess of a reportable quantity of any
extremely hazardous substance, as established under 40 CFR Part 355;
      (3)   An amount of oil that either:
         (a)   Violates applicable water quality standards; or
         (b)   Causes a film or sheen upon or discoloration of the surface of
the water or an adjoining shoreline or causes a sludge or emulsion to be
deposited beneath the surface of the water or upon an adjoining shoreline; or
      (4)   Any harmful quantity of any pollutant.
   (B)   The immediate notification required by division (A) above shall
include the following information:
      (1)   The identity or chemical name of the substance released, and
whether the substance is an extremely hazardous substance;
      (2)   The exact location of the release, including any known name of the
waters involved or threatened and any other environmental media affected;
      (3)   The time and duration (thus far) of the release;
      (4)   An estimate of the quantity and concentration (if known) of the
substance released;
      (5)   The source of the release;
      (6)   Any known or anticipated health risks associated with the release
and, where appropriate, advice regarding medical attention that may be
necessary for exposed individuals;
      (7)   Any precautions that should be taken as a result of the release;
      (8)   Any steps that have been taken to contain and/or clean up the
released material and minimize its impacts; and
      (9)   The names and telephone numbers of the person or persons to be
contacted for further information.
   (C)   Within 15 days following such release, the responsible person in
charge of the facility, vehicle, or other source of the release shall, unless
waived by the city, submit a written report containing each of the items of
information specified above, as well as the following additional information:
      (1)   The ultimate duration, concentration, and quantity of the release;
      (2)   All actions taken to respond to, contain, and clean up the released
substances, and all precautions taken to minimize the impacts;
      (3)   Any known or anticipated acute or chronic health risks associated
with the release;
      (4)   Where appropriate, advice regarding medical attention necessary for
exposed individuals;
      (5)   The identity of any governmental/private sector representatives
responding to the release; and
      (6)   The measures taken or to be taken by the responsible person(s) to
prevent similar future occurrences.
   (D)   The notifications required by this section shall not relieve the
responsible person of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may
be incurred as a result of the release, including any liability for damage to
the city, to natural resources, or to any other person or property; nor shall
such notification relieve the responsible person of any fine, penalty, or other
liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter or to state or federal
law.
   (E)   Any person responsible for any release as described in this section
shall comply with all state, federal, and any other local law requiring
reporting, cleanup, containment, and any other appropriate remedial action in
response to the release.
   (F)   Any person responsible for a release described in this section above
shall reimburse the city for any cost incurred by the city in responding to the
release.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.21 ENFORCEMENT; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the City of Port Isabel and/or its authorized representative
(s) finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a
requirement of this section, the authorized enforcement agency may order
compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such
notice may require without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator. Should a violation or
attempted violation of this section occur, the city attorney and other city
personnel may take any action to enforce this chapter to prevent and summarily
abate the action, remove or seize any goods and other objects used to violate
this chapter. These actions may also include but not be limited to allowing for
municipal resources and personnel to: abate any premises or property, closure,
condemn, remove any person or thing, court action, suspend, cancel, or void any
license or permit issued by the City of Port Isabel or a state or federal
agency, and any and all other relief as may be necessary.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.22 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be received within
five business days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the
appeal before the appropriate authority or his/her designee shall take place
within ten days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision
of the municipal authority or their designee shall be final.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.23 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or in the event of an appeal, within three
days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency
or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.24 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within ten days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property
will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The
property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of the
assessment within three days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely
manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by the
expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a
special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this section shall become liable to the city by reason of such
violation. The liability shall be paid in not more than 12 equal payments.
Interest at the current percent rate per annum shall be assessed on the balance
beginning on the first day following discovery of the violation.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.25 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this section. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the authorized
enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.26 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, ditch/creek cleanup, illegal dumping cleanup, etc.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.27 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.28 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   Any person that has violated or continues to violate this chapter
shall be liable to a Class C misdemeanor, or as indicated by state or federal
law, criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be
subject to a criminal penalty of $500 to $1,000 per violation per day and/or
imprisonment for a period of time not to exceed 60 days.
   (B)   The authorized enforcement agency may recover all attorney's fees,
court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this section,
including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.29 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.30 FINES AND POLICY.
   The City of Port Isabel is authorized to develop a schedule of fines and to
develop policy from time to time to assure the requirements of §§
152.01 through 152.24 are met. The schedule of fines shall adhere to all
applicable local, state and federal laws. The policy shall include, but will
not be limited to development of a comprehensive TPDES enforcement program,
staff training requirements, development of job descriptions, assignment of
fines to specific violations, budget requirements, and job assignments.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 162.31 ADOPTION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect after its final passage and
adoption. All prior ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this
chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 593-B, passed 7-12-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND DEANNEXATIONS
         
II.   CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY
         
III.   EASEMENTS
         
IV.   FRANCHISES
         
V.   RIGHTS-OF-WAY
         
VI.   RENAMING OF STREETS
         
VII.   STREET AND ALLEY CLOSURES
         
VIII.   VACATIONS
         
IX.   ZONING
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DEANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
170      2-20-1956   Annexing 366 acres of land, more or less.
264      10-12-1964  Annexing 24.93 acres of land, more or less.
330      12-10-1973  Deannexing 23.34 acres of land, more or less.
432      7-30-1984   Annexing four tracts of land, containing 56.75 acres,
                     24.24 acres, 1.95 acres and 35.10 acres respectively.
441      12-11-1984  Annexing all of Block 2, 3.72 acres, Fronton.
502      11-24-1987  Annexing three tracts of land, containing 344.95 acres,
                     79.56 acres and 43.97 acres respectively.
621      12-19-2001  Annexing 532.419 acres of land, more or less.
623      6-11-2002   Annexing 4,849.427 acres of land, more or less.
625      6-24-2003   Annexing 1,347.199 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 2.
626      6-24-2003   Annexing 163.851 acres of land, more or less, Port Isabel-
                     San Benito Navigation District.
627      7-22-2003   Annexing 3,400.051 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 5.
628      8-13-2003   Annexing 11,468.11 acres of land, more or less, Garcia
                     land and Laguna Madre, Tract No. 6.
633      11-25-2003  Annexing 3,200 acres of land, more or less, Laguna Madre,
                     Tract No. 8.
636      2-24-2004   Reannexing 868.1 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 1.
637      2-24-2004   Reannexing 366.1 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract Nos. 2-A and 2-B.
638      2-24-2004   Reannexing 320.0 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 3.
639      2-24-2004   Reannexing 320.0 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 4.
640      2-24-2004   Reannexing 402.0 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 5.
641      2-24-2004   Reannexing 776.8 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 6.
642      2-24-2004   Reannexing 1,347.6 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 7.
643      2-24-2004   Reannexing 2,809.8 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 8.
644      2-24-2004   Reannexing 2,656.0 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 9.
645      2-24-2004   Reannexing 2,559.4 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 10.
646      2-24-2004   Reannexing 1,826.4 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 11.
647      2-24-2004   Reannexing 1,217.5 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 12.
648      2-24-2004   Reannexing 640.0 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 13.
649      2-24-2004   Reannexing 640.0 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 14.
650      2-24-2004   Reannexing 640.0 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 15.
651      2-24-2004   Reannexing 640.0 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 16.
652      2-24-2004   Reannexing 5,240.5 acres of land, more or less, Laguna
                     Madre, Tract No. 17.
656      3-31-2004   Annexing 201.408 acres of land, more or less, Isla Blanca
                     Park, Tract No. 2.
658      4-7-2004    Providing for clarification and nonsubstantive correction
                     of Ord. 636.
659      4-7-2004    Providing for clarification and nonsubstantive correction
                     of Ord. 641.
660      4-7-2004    Providing for clarification and nonsubstantive correction
                     of Ord. 643.
657      4-10-2004   Annexing 459.078 acres of land, more or less, South Padre
                     Island, Tract No. 3.
661      7-13-2004   Annexing 26.929 acres of land, more or less, South Padre
                     Island, Tract No. 5.
664      10-12-2004  Annexing 51.693 acres of land, more or less, South Padre
                     Island, Tract No. 6.
665      10-12-2004  Annexing 176.265 acres of land, more or less, Isla Blanca
                     Park and Gulf, Tract No. 7 (alternate).
625A     2-22-2005   Providing for clarification and nonsubstantive correction
                     of Ord. 625.
623A     3-8-2005    Providing for clarification and nonsubstantive correction
                     of Ord. 623.
 
TABLE II: CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Exchange of warranty deeds between the city and the Port
12 or 22 7-5-1928    Isabel Company, transferring Blocks 37 and 64 to the
                     Company and block bounded by Gomez, Yturria and Maxan
                     Streets and Plaza Marine to the city.
                     Calling for a special election for the purpose of the sale
                     to John R. Wilcox of two tracts of land, each being part
227      6-7-1961    of the city's 346.04 acre tract decreed to it by judgement
                     in Cause No. 12161 of the Cameron County District Court
                     and constituting 22.478 acres and 7.174 acres
                     respectively.
                     Calling for a special election for the purpose of the sale
233      5-14-1962   of a tract of land constituting 5.28 acres and being part
                     of the city's 346.04 acre tract decreed to it by judgement
                     in Cause No. 12161 of the Cameron County District Court.
                     Providing for the transfer and conveyance of Lots 5 and 6,
363      7-25-1977   Block No. 90 of the original townsite of the city to
                     Mitchell Real Estate Company.
528      - -         Authorizing the sale of 0.7 acres of land to the Port
                     Isabel Housing Authority.
                     Conveying a 0.833 acre tract (location of former public
596      5-17-1999   swimming pool) to the Community Development Corporation of
                     Brownsville and a 0.462 acre tract to the Laguna Madre
                     Water District.
                     Establishing the fair market value of a 0.062 acre tract
669      2-27-2007   of land and authorizing the conveyance by quitclaim deed
                     to Marina Village, Inc. upon payment of fair market value.
                     Establishing the fair market value of a 0.418 acre tract
671      7-10-2007   of land and authorizing the conveyance by quitclaim deed
                     to Raybec Port Isabel, LLC upon payment of fair market
                     value.
                     Concerning the sale of approximately 0.268 acres of land
                     owned by the city, establishing the fair market value and
674      4-8-2008    authorizing the conveyance by quitclaim deed to Ken
                     Plasterer, trustee of the Ken Plasterer Trust upon payment
                     of fair market value.
 
TABLE III: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
355      9-13-1976   To abandon and extinguish an easement on Lots Nos. 3 and
                     4, Port Isabel Urban Renewal Subdivision No. 1.
511      9- -1988    Accepting and approving right-of-way easement to be known
                     as Industrial Boulevard.
                     Abandoning right-of-way easement to and over a potion of a
561      8-8-1995    .0345 acre tract of land out of Lots Nos. 6 and 7, Block
                     123.
                     Approving and accepting the grant of a drainage easement
591      1-26-1999   and providing for the exchange of mutual quitclaim deeds
                     to fix a shoreline boundary.
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -1928     Granting a franchise to Central Power and Light Company to
                     distribute electric light, heat and power.
44       8- -1932    Granting a franchise to J.W. Pate and I.S. Steiner to
                     distribute electric light, heat and power.
43       8-26-1932   Granting a franchise to J.W. Pate and I.S. Steiner to
                     distribute natural gas.
57       4-14-1936   Granting a franchise to J.C. Duvall to distribute natural
                     gas.
58       8- -1936    Accepting offer of Central Power and Light to furnish
                     street lighting service.
77       - -         Fixing amounts to be paid by persons and corporation
                     operating an electric utility business.
                     Fixing rentals to be paid by electric utilities for the
82       6-2-1941    privilege of using with their equipment the streets and
                     public ways within the corporate limits of the city.
119      9-12-1950   Regulating the rates of Southwestern Bell Telephone
                     Company in the city.
                     Authorizing the execution by the Mayor of a transfer of
120      7-16-1951   water permit number 1026 to the Cameron County Fresh Water
                     Supply District Number One.
124      9-15-1952   Regulating the rates of Southwestern Bell Telephone
                     Company in the city.
131      5-18-1953   Accepting contract offered by Cental Power and Light
                     Company.
137      9-21-1953   Agreement with Southwestern Bell Telephone Company to
                     provide annual payment.
147      4-19-1954   Agreement with Southwestern Bell Telephone Company.
153      9-7-1954    Approving and accepting contract offered by Central Power
                     and Light Company.
159      6-20-1955   Approving and accepting contract offered by Central Power
                     and Light Company.
188      - -1957     Prescribing rates and charges for local exchange telephone
                     service furnished by Southwestern Bell Telephone Company.
180      7-8-1957    Granting a franchise to Rio Grande Valley Gas Company to
                     distribute natural gas.
189      1-13-1958   Establishing rates to be charged for natural gas by the
                     Rio Grande Valley Gas Company.
190      1-27-1958   Approving and accepting the contract offered by Central
                     Power and Light Company.
214      3-1-1960    Approving and accepting the contract offered by Central
                     Power and Light Company.
215      4-11-1960   Approving and accepting the contract offered by Central
                     Power and Light Company.
217      4-25-1960   Repealing all ordinances regulating rates and charges of
                     the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company.
229      1-22-1962   Granting a franchise to Cameron County Fresh Water Supply
                     District No. 1 to distribute filtered fresh water.
243      8-19-1963   Establishing maximum rates to be charged for natural gas
                     by the Rio Grande Valley Gas Company.
280      5-9-1966    Approving and accepting the contract offered by Central
                     Power and Light Company.
307      5-12-1969   Granting electric light, heat and power franchise to
                     Central Power and Light Company.
312      10-27-1969  Establishing maximum rates to be charged for natural gas
                     sold by Rio Valley Gas Company.
                     Approving, ratifying, confirming and accepting the
323      9-25-1972   electric rate schedules filed by Central Power and Light
                     Company.
352      - -1976     Cable communications franchise granted to Laguna Madre
                     Cable, Inc.
365      10-24-1977  Granting a franchise to TV Cable of South Padre, Inc. to
                     maintain a community antenna television system.
370      1-9-1978    Establishing maximum rates to be charged for natural gas
                     by the Rio Valley Gas Company.
370A     1-29-1979   Establishing maximum rates to be charged for natural gas
                     by the Rio Valley Gas Company.
387      1-14-1980   Granting electric light, heat and power franchise to
                     Central Power and Light Company.
389      7-5-1980    Establishing maximum rates to be charged for natural gas
                     sold by Rio Valley Gas Company.
394      7-27-1981   Establishing maximum rates to be charged for natural gas.
399      3-22-1982   Establishing maximum rates to be charged for natural gas.
402      4-26-1982   Suspending proposed effective date of Central Power and
                     Light Company's statement of intent to increase rates.
405      7-19-1982   Approving rate schedules to be charged by Central Power
                     and Light Company.
411      11-15-1982  Authorizing an annual base rate review for the Rio Valley
                     Gas Company.
434      8-2-1984    Establishing maximum rates to be charged for natural gas
                     sold by Rio Valley Gas Company.
488      7-28-1987   Granting a solid waste disposal franchise to Browning-
                     Ferris, Inc.
514      6-19-1989   Denying rate increase sought by Central Power and Light
                     Company.
537      1-31-1992   Establishing maximum rates to be charged for natural gas
                     by Rio Valley Gas Company.
137A     9-8-1992    Franchise agreement with Southwestern Bell Telephone
                     Company.
                     Finding the existing rates of Central Power and Light are
550      6-7-1994    unreasonable; determining just and reasonable rates to be
                     observed and in force within the city; ordering rate
                     reductions.
570      3-5-1996    Revising rates of Central Power and Light Company.
                     Approving, ratifying, confirming and accepting Sheet C29
571      4-23-1996   and Sheet E16 Real Time Pricing Pilot Program filed by
                     Central Power and Light.
137B     9-23-1997   Amending Ord 137A.
                     Granting a permit and consent to PG&E Gas Transmission,
606      2-22-2000   PG&E Gas Transmission Teco, PG&E Energy Trading-Gas
                     Corporation to maintain, use and operate certain natural
                     gas and/or natural gas liquids transmission pipelines.
610      11-14-2000  Approving contract amendment to contract between the city
                     and BFI Waste Systems of North America, Inc.
617      8-28-2001   Establishing maximum rates to be charged for natural gas
                     sold by Southern Union Gas Company.
620      9-25-2001   Settling and releasing claims against Central Power and
                     Light Company concerning franchise fee payment.
                     Finding that AEP Texas Central Company's electric
654      3-9-2004    transmission and distribution rates and charges should be
                     changed; determining just and reasonable rates; adjusting
                     street lighting charges.
                     Finding the existing rates of AEP Texas Central Company
                     are unreasonable; requested revenues from electric
670      3-13-2007   transmission should be reduced; determining just and
                     reasonable rates; adopting recommendations of consultants;
                     providing for recovery of rate case expenses.
672      12-11-2007  Granting Texas Service Company a franchise to provide a
                     natural gas distribution system in the city.
                     Approving a negotiated resolution between the city and
676      9-1-2009    Texas Gas Service Company regarding the company's
                     application to implement higher rates.
 
TABLE V: RIGHTS-OF-WAY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing E.B. Ledvin, owner of Block 40 to erect
                     certain buildings in the alley bisecting the block,
67       5-2-1938    provided that the owner shall obligate himself or his
                     assignees to give and grant to the city a right-of-way as
                     and when needed for the purpose of constructing utility
                     lines.
                     Abandoning a right-of-way for street purposes on a portion
342      10-28-1974  of a street abutting Lots 30, 32 and 33, Hockaday
                     Addition.
                     Abandoning right-of-way for sidewalk purposes on street
446      2-19-1985   abutting Lots 1 through 6 on Madison Street and Lots 7
                     through 12 on Monroe Street, Block 40.
463      3-25-1986   Abandoning right-of-way for a portion of an alley
                     bordering Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 19.
                     Providing for full utilization of North Garcia Street
599      7-27-1999   right-of-way lying between Maxan Street and Laguna Madre
                     Bay.
 
TABLE VI: RENAMING OF STREETS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
334  2-25-  Changing the name of Powers Street to Queen Isabella Boulevard.
     1974
379  12-11- Renaming:
     1978
            1.   A section of South Shore Drive which runs from State Highway 100 to North
            Railroad Avenue to be renamed Bridge Street;
            2.   A section of Leal Street which runs from South Shore Drive to Monroe Street
            to be renamed Martinez Street; and
            3.   A section of street from Washington to Houston Street which is now Gomez
            Street to be renamed South Shore Drive.
 
TABLE VII: STREET AND ALLEY CLOSURES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
464      4-8-1986    Closing a portion of Yturria Street.
608      6-14-2000   Closing a portion of alley located south of Lots 5-A, 5
                     and 4-A, original townsite of the city.
                     Closing the one-block section of Railroad Avenue, between
680      8-16-2011   the intersections of South Manautou Street and South
                     Tarnava Street.
 
TABLE VIII: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating and closing a part of Gomez Street, a part of
136      9-8-1953    Michigan Street and the alleys extending through Blocks
                     40, 92, 96 and 112.
139      10-5-1953   Vacating and closing a part of an alley extending through
                     Block 119, lying between Lots 5 and 7.
172      3-19-1956   Vacating part of Trevino Street and the alley extending
                     through Block 95.
176      1-15-1957   Vacating and closing the alley extending through Block
                     100.
182      8-26-1957   Vacating and closing a portion of the alley extending
                     through Block 124.
                     Vacating and closing an unnamed street or portion of
184      10-23-1957  street extending from north-right-of-way line of State
                     Highway 100 to south right-of-way line of Houston Street.
185      10-23-1957  Vacating portions of Houston and Trevino Streets.
196      6-24-1958   Vacating and closing the alley extending through Block 7A.
201      10-13-1958  Vacating a portion of Houston Street.
206      5-11-1959   Vacating and closing that certain unnamed street or
                     portion of street formerly known as the "Strand".
236      9-10-1962   Vacating a portion of Yturria Street.
                     Vacating and closing that certain unnamed street or
240      3-11-1963   portion of street extending from the south right-of-way
                     line of South Shore Drive at its intersection with Gomez
                     Street to the industrial channel.
245      10-14-1963  Vacating and closing a portion of Yturria Street.
246      10-28-1963  Closing, vacation and abandoning:
                     1.   A portion of Trevino Street;
                     2.   A portion of Musina Street; and
                     3.   A portion of Manautou Street.
263      10-12-1964  Vacating, closing and abandoning certain portions of Adams
                     Street.
270      4-12-1965   Vacating a part of North Shore Drive.
246A     6-28-1965   Amending Ord. 246.
272      8-9-1965    Vacating a part of Leal Street.
277      - -1966     Vacating a part of South Shore Drive.
276      2- -1966    Vacating, closing and abandoning an alley traversing Block
                     98.
281      6-13-1966   Vacating a part of the rights-of-way of Davis and Yturria
                     Street.
306      4-28-1969   Closing, abandoning and vacating a portion of Tarnava
                     Street.
314      12-8-1969   Vacating a part of Polk Street.
315      1-12-1970   Closing, abandoning and vacating a portion of Yturria
                     Street.
                     Vacating, closing and abandoning streets and alleys lying
317      12-28-1970  within the boundaries of Project TEX R-77, South Port
                     Isabel No. 2.
                     Vacating, closing and abandoning streets and alleys within
319      7-12-1971   the boundaries of the project area of South Port Isabel
                     No. 2 Project TEX R-77.
319-2    2-14-1972   Vacating, closing and abandoning a 0.21 acre tract of
                     land, lying between Block 16, Lot 1 and Block 42, Lot 20.
350      9-25-1975   Vacating and closing a non-dedicated, unnamed street or
                     portion of street described as 0.296 acre.
427      5-14-1984   Vacating and abandoning property, 0.089 acres of Basin
                     Avenue.
                     Confirming the abandoning and closing of a portion of Polk
499      10-27-1987  Street; vacating, closing and abandoning portions of
                     Harbor Light Street and Davis Street and surrounding
                     alleys
580      2- -1997    Vacating and closing portions of Houston Street west of
                     Trevino Street.
581      4-22-1997   Vacating and closing portions of North Shore Drive.
561B     11-25-1997  Repealing Ord. 561, vacating and closing a 0.3855 acre
                     portion of Houston Street.
                     Vacating and closing a 0.057 acre tract of land also known
584      12-9-1997   as a portion of a wide 20-foot alley adjoining Lot 1
                     through 3 in Block 77 and Lot 1 through 4 of Sea Breeze
                     Court.
                     Vacating, closing and abandoning a 0.106 acre tract of
589      7-28-1998   land also known as a portion of a wide 20-foot alley
                     adjoining Lot 1 through 4 and Lots 13 and 14, Block 100.
612      11-28-2000  Vacating, closing and abandoning a portion of the alley
                     located in Block 45.
616      7-25-2001   Vacating, closing and abandoning a portion of the alley
                     located in Block 45.
                     Vacating, closing and abandoning a portion of the right-
622      4-9-2002    of-way located at the intersection of North Shore Drive
                     and Yturria Street.
635      2-10-2004   Vacating, closing and abandoning a portion of the small
                     boat channel and a portion of Bridge Street.
666      7-26-2005   Vacating, closing and abandoning a portion of the Yturria
                     Street.
 
TABLE IX: ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
447  2-12-  Rezoning the following as B-1 Business District:
     1985
            1.   A 3.72 acre tract out of Block 2, Fronton Subdivision;
            2.   All of Blocks 1, 2 and 3 of Wal-Mart #413 Subdivision; and
            3.   All of Block 3, Fronton Subdivision, including Blocks 1 and 2 of Las
            Palmas Subdivision.
466  9-9-   Granting a variation to permit the conduct of any business permitted in a B-
     1986   1 Business District on Lots 3A, 4 and 4A, Block 20.
470  11-11- Designating Lots 3, 4 and 5, Block 1, Garcia Bayfront Subdivision and 41.136
     1986   acres of Garcia Tract C as a planned unit development.
582  10-14- Rezoning the following:
     1997
            1.   Block 124 and adjoining 0.282 acres of the original townsite as B-
            2 Business District; and
            2.   Block 123, Lots 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the original townsite as B-
            2 Business District.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Codes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS CODES
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
Statutory References Code Section
Statutory References                                           Code Section
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, Rules 15.1—15.10 92.02,
                                                               92.03
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, Rule 15.21         92.02
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15                                   92.16
Title 31, § 501.26(b)                                         92.12
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.2            92.12
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.2, Appendix I92.03
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.3            92.03
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.3(f)         92.03
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.3(o)         92.09,
                                                               92.16
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.3(s)(2)(A)   92.10
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.3(s)(2)(C)   92.03
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.3(s)(5)      92.09
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.3(t)(2)      92.09
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.4            92.11
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.4—15.5     92.12
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.4(c)         92.10
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.4(d)         92.10
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.4(f)(l)      92.10
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.4(f)(2)—(5)92.10
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.5            92.12
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.6            92.10
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.6(f)         92.12
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.7            92.11,
                                                               92.13
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.7(e)         92.12
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.7(h)         92.15
Title 31, Part 1, Chapter 15, Subchapter A, § 15.8            92.16
                                                               
 
AGRICULTURE CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Ch. 63            162.09
Ch. 75            162.09
Ch. 76            162.09
 
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
1.04                 100.01
 
CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Article 42A.054      116.02,
                     116.12
Article 62.001       116.02,
                     116.12
Article 102.017      35.04
Article 102.1072     35.03
                     
 
ELECTION CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
141.031              Charter
                     Art. IV Section 4.03
 
FAMILY CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Title 3              131.04
 
GOV’T CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Chapter 418          36.02
Chapter 552          31.15
851.001 et seq.      37.15
 
HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE
Statutory References Code Section
Statutory References    Code Section
342.006                 94.05
365.011                 94.01
431.001 through 438.001 112.28
711.004                 93.14
711.034                 93.03
711.039                 93.09
Chapter 342             50.14
Chapter 824 et seq.     111.02
 
INSURANCE CODE
 
Statutory References     Code Section
Article 21.60, § 2(1)   111.02
Article 21.60, § 4(a)(1)111.02
 
LOC. GOV’T CODE
Statutory References Code Section
Statutory References Code Section
Chapter 53           10.01
54.001               10.99
54.016               94.99
54.017               94.99
143.001 et seq.      33.29
201.001 et seq.      38.32,
                     38.35
212.016              156.003
212.0065             156.003
Chapter 214          150.29
 
NATURAL RESOURCES CODE
Statutory References Code Section
Statutory References Code Section
61.001 et seq.       92.03
61.011 et seq.       92.03
61.011               92.03
61.011(d)(6)         92.14
61.013(c)            92.03
61.015               92.03
61.015(g)            92.11
61.052               92.06
61.061—61.083      92.13
61.065(a)            92.13
63.001 et seq.       92.03
63.011               92.03
63.051               92.03
Chapter 61           92.02
Chapter 63           92.02,
                     92.05
 
PARKS AND WILDLIFE CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Ch. 31               99.01,
                     99.06
 
PENAL CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
30.05                132.15
Chapter 21           120.04
Chapter 47           120.04
 
PROPERTY TAX CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
33.07                39.31
33.48(a)             39.30
 
REVISED CIVIL STATUTES
Statutory References Code Section
Statutory References        Code Section
5.01                        118.19
Title 28, Chapter 13        Charter
                            Art. XII Section 12.16
Article 970a                Charter
                            Art. I Section 1.04
                            Charter
Article 974a                Art. VII Section 7.01,
                            156.003
Article 1011a through 1911j Charter
                            Art. VII Section 7.02
Article 1167                Charter
                            Art. XII Section 12.19
Article 3271A               96.36
Article 4477-9a             118.11
Article 6252-17             32.044
Title 116, Article 6701 1/2 154.20
 
TRANSPORTATION CODE
 
Statutory References      Code Section
501.001 et seq.           118.19
501.002(9)                99.06
601.001 et seq.           116.21
                          33.45,
681.011                   33.47,
                          33.48
Chapter 683, Subchapter C 72.04
 
WATER CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
16.315               152.01
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.              Date Passed Code Section
77                    - -         TSO Table IV
79                    - -         52.13,
                                  52.99
                                  101.01,
                                  101.02,
                                  101.15—
111A                  - -         101.19,
                                  101.30—
                                  101.32,
                                  101.45,
                                  101.99
344A                  - -         32.071
-                     - -1928     TSO Table IV
12 or 22              7-5-1928    TSO Table II
44                    8- -1932    TSO Table IV
43                    8-26-1932   TSO Table IV
58                    8- -1936    TSO Table IV
57                    4-14-1936   TSO Table IV
63                    3-15-1937   34.20
67                    5-2-1938    TSO Table V
                                  34.01—
68                    5-2-1938    34.07,
                                  34.99
82                    6-2-1941    TSO Table IV
104                   7-19-1946   51.01—
                                  51.11
                                  51.25,
114                   5-22-1948   51.26,
                                  51.99
116                   2-4-1950    30.01—
                                  30.10
119                   9-12-1950   TSO Table IV
120                   7-16-1951   TSO Table IV
124                   9-15-1952   TSO Table IV
128                   3-24-1953   35.01
128A                  3-24-1953   33.01—
                                  33.03
129                   4-20-1953   Ch. 74, Sch. I
131                   5-18-1953   TSO Table IV
136                   9-8-1953    TSO Table VIII
137                   9-21-1953   TSO Table IV
139                   10-5-1953   TSO Table VIII
142                   1- -1954    99.50,
                                  99.99
                                  96.35—
140                   1-4-1954    96.43,
                                  96.99
                                  32.015,
141                   1-4-1954    32.016,
                                  32.018—
                                  32.024
143                   2-19-1954   130.03
144                   3-1-1954    Ch. 75, Sch. I
147                   4-19-1954   TSO Table IV
153                   9-7-1954    TSO Table IV
159                   6-20-1955   TSO Table IV
                                  154.20—
162                   10-17-1955  154.23,
                                  154.99
                                  73.01,
164                   12-5-1955   73.02,
                                  73.99,
                                  Ch. 74, Sch. III
170                   2-20-1956   TSO Table I
172                   3-19-1956   TSO Table VIII
                                  96.20—
173A                  6-18-1956   96.22,
                                  96.99
141A                  1-15-1957   32.016
176                   1-15-1957   TSO Table VIII
188                   - -1957     TSO Table IV
180                   7-8-1957    TSO Table IV
182                   8-26-1957   TSO Table VIII
                                  119.01—
183                   9-9-1957    119.15,
                                  119.99
184                   10-23-1957  TSO Table VIII
185                   10-23-1957  TSO Table VIII
189                   1-13-1958   TSO Table IV
190                   1-27-1958   TSO Table IV
173B                  6-24-1958   96.22
196                   6-24-1958   TSO Table VIII
197                   9-3-1958    99.35,
                                  99.99
201                   10-13-1958  TSO Table VIII
                                  52.01—
                                  52.06,
205                   5-11-1959   52.08—
                                  52.12,
                                  52.99
206                   5-11-1959   TSO Table VIII
205A                  8-19-1959   52.07
214                   3-1-1960    TSO Table IV
215                   4-11-1960   TSO Table IV
217                   4-25-1960   TSO Table IV
                                  155.01—
                                  155.04,
                                  155.15—
218                   6-13-1960   155.23,
                                  155.35—
                                  155.41,
                                  155.55—
                                  155.60
227                   6-7-1961    TSO Table II
205B                  12-11-1961  52.02
229                   1-22-1962   TSO Table IV
233                   5-14-1962   TSO Table II
236                   9-10-1962   TSO Table VIII
240                   3-11-1963   TSO Table VIII
243                   8-19-1963   TSO Table IV
245                   10-14-1963  TSO Table VIII
246                   10-28-1963  TSO Table VIII
                                  102.01—
262                   9-14-1964   102.08,
                                  102.99
263                   10-12-1964  TSO Table VIII
264                   10-12-1964  TSO Table I
270                   4-12-1965   TSO Table VIII
246A                  6-28-1965   TSO Table VIII
272                   8-9-1965    TSO Table VIII
                                  96.01—
273                   9-13-1965   96.07,
                                  96.99
277                   - -1966     TSO Table VIII
276                   2- -1966    TSO Table VIII
280                   5-9-1966    TSO Table IV
281                   6-13-1966   TSO Table VIII
205C                  6-10-1968   52.02
305                   3-24-1969   Ch. 74, Sch. IV
306                   4-28-1969   TSO Table VIII
307                   5-12-1969   TSO Table IV
312                   10-27-1969  TSO Table IV
314                   12-8-1969   TSO Table VIII
315                   1-12-1970   TSO Table VIII
317                   12-28-1970  TSO Table VIII
319                   7-12-1971   TSO Table VIII
319-2                 2-14-1972   TSO Table VIII
                                  99.01—
                                  99.05,
156A                  7-24-1972   99.07,
                                  99.08,
                                  99.99
323                   9-25-1972   TSO Table IV
325                   12-11-1972  37.30
326                   3-26-1973   Ch. 75, Sch. I
141B                  4-9-1973    32.016
329                   11-12-1973  Ch. 75, Sch. I
330                   12-10-1973  TSO Table I
331                   1-14-1974   130.02
334                   2-25-1974   TSO Table VI
338                   7-8-1974    39.60
339                   8-12-1974   39.60
342                   10-28-1974  TSO Table V
343                   11-11-1974  Ch. 74, Sch. II
344                   11-25-1974  32.070—
                                  32.072
347                   3-24-1975   33.60
352                   - -1976     TSO Table IV
355                   9-13-1976   TSO Table III
350                   9-25-1975   TSO Table VIII
356                   11-22-1976  Ch. 75, Sch. I
357                   11-22-1976  Ch. 75, Sch. I
361                   2-28-1977   130.01
                                  103.01,
362                   4-11-1977   103.03—
                                  103.15,
                                  103.99
363                   7-25-1977   TSO Table II
364                   9-26-1977   38.01
365                   10-24-1977  TSO Table IV
370                   1-9-1978    TSO Table IV
371                   1-9-1978    Ch. 74, Sch. V
372                   2-27-1978   97.01
                                  100.35—
374                   6-12-1978   100.37,
                                  100.99
273A                  11-13-1978  96.01,
                                  96.99
361A                  11-13-1978  130.01
379                   12-11-1978  TSO Table VI
380                   12-11-1978  Ch. 74, Sch. IV
121A                  1-8-1979    Ch. 74, Sch. II
370A                  1-29-1979   TSO Table IV
382                   3-12-1979   39.45
383                   6- -1979    Ch. 75, Sch. I
357A                  6-25-1979   Ch. 75, Sch. I
387                   1-14-1980   TSO Table IV
388                   3-24-1980   Ch. 74, Sch. IV
389                   7-5-1980    TSO Table IV
                                  39.15—
392                   9-22-1980   39.20,
                                  39.99
141C                  4-28-1981   32.016
394                   7-27-1981   TSO Table IV
399                   3-22-1982   TSO Table IV
400                   4-26-1982   39.30
401                   4-26-1982   39.31
402                   4-26-1982   TSO Table IV
405                   7-19-1982   TSO Table IV
                                  73.01,
406                   8-23-1982   73.02,
                                  Ch. 74, Sch. III
262A                  9-27-1982   102.08,
                                  102.99
410                   9-29-1982   Ch. 75, Sch. I
411                   11-15-1982  TSO Table IV
                                  115.01—
417                   7-25-1983   115.04,
                                  115.99
419                   9-12-1983   Ch. 75, Sch. I
420                   9-26-1983   37.01
422                   11-28-1983  Ch. 75, Sch. I
141D                  4-9-1984    32.025
                                  154.01—
426                   4-9-1984    154.07,
                                  154.99
427                   5-14-1984   TSO Table VIII
431                   7-9-1984    31.01
433                   7-24-1984   35.02
432                   7-30-1984   TSO Table I
434                   8-2-1984    TSO Table IV
438                   8-28-1984   37.15
                                  95.01—
440                   11-13-1984  95.29,
                                  95.99
442                   12-4-1984   Ch. 75, Sch. I
441                   12-11-1984  TSO Table I
358A                  1-14-1985   110.01
445                   1-14-1985   71.20
447                   2-12-1985   TSO Table IX
446                   2-19-1985   TSO Table V
318A                  6-11-1985   33.15—
                                  33.31
448                   6-11-1985   118.01—
                                  118.19
358B                  6-25-1985   110.01
                                  32.040—
                                  32.044,
449                   6-25-1985   100.01,
                                  100.02,
                                  100.99
450                   7-23-1985   32.001—
                                  32.004
456                   11-12-1985  71.20
457                   11-12-1985  133.01,
                                  133.99
                                  157.002,
                                  157.015—
                                  157.020,
                                  157.035—
455                   12-17-1985  157.045,
                                  157.060—
                                  157.064,
                                  157.075—
                                  157.077,
                                  157.999
                                  156.001—
                                  156.003,
                                  156.015—
                                  156.018,
                                  156.030—
                                  156.037,
459                   12-17-1985  156.050—
                                  156.058,
                                  156.070,
                                  156.071,
                                  156.085,
                                  156.999,
                                  Ch. 156, App. A
481                   1-27-1986   110.02,
                                  110.99
                                  90.01,
                                  90.02,
460                   2-11-1986   90.15—
                                  90.27,
                                  90.99
463                   3-25-1986   TSO Table V
464                   4-8-1986    TSO Table VII
465                   4-22-1986   36.30,
                                  36.31
466                   9-9-1986    TSO Table IX
470                   11-11-1986  TSO Table IX
472                   11-25-1986  Ch. 74, Sch. II
462A                  12-9-1986   Ch. 74, Sch. VI
473                   12-9-1986   38.02
474                   12-9-1986   110.01
477                   12-23-1986  38.16
                                  91.001,
                                  91.015—
                                  91.020,
                                  91.035—
                                  91.039,
                                  91.070—
                                  91.075,
483                   1-27-1987   91.090,
                                  91.091,
                                  91.105—
                                  91.110,
                                  91.140,
                                  91.141,
                                  91.170,
                                  91.999
484                   1-27-1987   38.15
                                  100.20—
486                   2-24-1987   100.23,
                                  100.99
                                  100.50—
491                   5-12-1987   100.53,
                                  100.99
488                   7-28-1987   TSO Table IV
                                  132.01,
493                   7-28-1987   132.02,
                                  132.99
                                  157.020,
455A                  9-22-1987   157.035,
                                  157.062
450A                  10-27-1987  32.001
498                   10-27-1987  37.15
499                   10-27-1987  TSO Table VIII
500                   11-24-1987  37.15
501                   11-24-1987  32.016,
                                  32.017
502                   11-24-1987  TSO Table I
503                   12-29-1987  39.01
505                   7-26-1988   Ch. 74, Sch. I
433A                  12-27-1988  35.02
514                   6-19-1989   TSO Table IV
362A                  6-27-1989   103.02
511                   9- -1988    TSO Table III
521                   1-9-1990    50.35
                                  99.20,
282A                  8-14-1990   99.21,
                                  99.99
                                  153.01—
529                   4-9-1991    153.06,
                                  153.99
530                   8-28-1991   38.30—
                                  38.42
535                   11-25-1991  37.15
536                   11-25-1991  37.15
537                   1-31-1992   TSO Table IV
                                  39.15—
392A                  4-14-1992   39.20,
                                  39.99
137A                  9-8-1992    TSO Table IV
                                  91.001,
                                  91.015—
                                  91.020,
                                  91.035—
                                  91.040,
                                  91.055,
                                  91.070—
                                  91.076,
                                  91.090,
483A                  3-23-1993   91.091,
                                  91.105—
                                  91.110,
                                  91.125,
                                  91.140,
                                  91.141,
                                  91.155,
                                  91.156,
                                  91.170,
                                  91.171,
                                  91.999
550                   6-7-1994    TSO Table IV
                                  114.01—
552                   8-9-1994    114.06,
                                  114.99
556                   1-10-1995   32.055,
                                  32.056
                                  131.20,
560                   8-8-1995    131.21,
                                  131.99
561                   8-8-1995    TSO Table III
562                   8-22-1995   119.30,
                                  119.99
567                   1- -1996    132.15,
                                  132.99
440A                  1-9-1996    95.30
483B                  1-9-1996    91.001,
                                  91.090
568                   1-23-1996   98.01—
                                  98.08
455B                  2-13-1996   157.020
459A                  2-13-1996   156.070
569                   2-13-1996   Ch. 75, Sch. I
570                   3-5-1996    TSO Table IV
483C                  4-23-1996   91.171
568A                  4-23-1996   98.01—
                                  98.08
571                   4-23-1996   TSO Table IV
141E                  7-9-1996    32.016
                                  91.001,
                                  91.015—
                                  91.020,
                                  91.035—
                                  91.040,
                                  91.055,
                                  91.070—
                                  91.076,
                                  91.090,
483D                  8-27-1996   91.091,
                                  91.105—
                                  91.110,
                                  91.125,
                                  91.140—
                                  91.142,
                                  91.155,
                                  91.156,
                                  91.170,
                                  91.171,
                                  91.999
                                  117.01—
575                   11-12-1996  117.03,
                                  117.99
577                   11-12-1996  31.15
579                   12-10-1996  Ch. 74, Sch. IV
580                   2- -1997    TSO Table VIII
                                  154.20—
162A                  3-11-1997   154.23,
                                  154.99
581                   4-22-1997   TSO Table VIII
                                  113.01—
576                   5-27-1997   113.09,
                                  113.99
137B                  9-23-1997   TSO Table IV
                                  39.15—
392B                  10-14-1997  39.20,
                                  39.99
582                   10-14-1997  TSO Table IX
561B                  11-25-1997  TSO Table VIII
583                   12-9-1997   33.45—
                                  33.48
584                   12-9-1997   TSO Table VIII
                                  151.01—
585                   12-30-1997  151.06,
                                  151.99
                                  157.002;
455C                  1-6-1998    157.042;
                                  157.999
484A                  7-28-1998   38.15
528                   - -         TSO Table II
588                   7-28-1998   38.15
589                   7-28-1998   TSO Table VIII
591                   1-26-1999   TSO Table III
                                  112.15—
590                   2-9-1999    112.33,
                                  112.99
                                  111.01—
475C                  2-23-1999   111.17,
                                  111.99,
                                  Ch. 111, App. A
282B                  3-9-1999    99.20,
                                  99.21
                                  152.01—
                                  152.12,
                                  152.25—
593                   4-27-1999   152.28,
                                  152.40—
                                  152.44,
                                  152.99
552A                  3-9-1999    114.02
596                   5-17-1999   TSO Table II
                                  70.01,
                                  70.02,
597                   7-27-1999   71.01—
                                  71.06,
                                  71.99
598                   7-27-1999   Ch. 74, Sch. II,
                                  Ch. 75, Sch. II
599                   7-27-1999   TSO Table V
602                   9-27-1999   35.03
603                   9-27-1999   35.04
                                  160.001—
                                  160.004,
                                  160.015—
                                  160.018,
                                  160.030—
                                  160.033,
                                  160.045—
                                  160.047,
                                  160.060—
                                  160.063,
                                  160.075—
                                  160.078,
                                  160.095,
                                  160.096,
                                  160.110—
                                  160.113,
605                   1-25-2000   160.125—
                                  160.127,
                                  160.140—
                                  160.143,
                                  160.155—
                                  160.157,
                                  160.170—
                                  160.172,
                                  160.185,
                                  160.186,
                                  160.200—
                                  160.207,
                                  160.220—
                                  160.222,
                                  160.235,
                                  160.236,
                                  160.999
606                   2-22-2000   TSO Table IV
605A                  3-14-2000   160.045
608                   6-14-2000   TSO Table VII
605B                  11-14-2000  160.018
609                   11-14-2000  38.17
610                   11-14-2000  TSO Table IV
                                  50.01—
611                   11-14-2000  50.20,
                                  50.99
612                   11-28-2000  TSO Table VIII
                                  157.001,
455D                  2-13-2001   157.002,
                                  157.060,
                                  157.061
                                  100.01,
615                   5-10-2001   100.03—
                                  100.05
616                   7-25-2001   TSO Table VIII
617                   8-28-2001   TSO Table IV
                                  159.01—
                                  159.04,
                                  159.20—
                                  159.22,
618                   8-28-2001   159.35—
                                  159.39,
                                  159.50—
                                  159.54,
                                  159.99
619                   8-28-2001   159.05
620                   9-25-2001   TSO Table IV
                                  160.033,
605C                  10-23-2001  160.047,
                                  160.078
621                   12-19-2001  TSO Table I
590A                  3-26-2002   112.17,
                                  112.99
                                  112.01—
592A                  3-26-2002   112.03,
                                  112.99
622                   4-9-2002    TSO Table VIII
623                   6-11-2002   TSO Table I
624                   9-3-2002    150.08
                                  160.018,
                                  160.079,
                                  160.080,
                                  160.110,
605D                  11-26-2002  160.170,
                                  160.200,
                                  160.201,
                                  160.203,
                                  160.207
455E                  1-28-2003   157.002,
                                  157.017
625                   6-24-2003   TSO Table I
626                   6-24-2003   TSO Table I
                                  36.01—
629                   7-8-2003    36.09,
                                  36.99
627                   7-22-2003   TSO Table I
628                   8-13-2003   TSO Table I
                                  131.01—
630                   9-23-2003   131.05,
                                  131.99
631                   10-14-2003  158.01
                                  94.01—
                                  94.06,
632                   11-25-2003  94.08—
                                  94.10,
                                  94.99
633                   11-25-2003  TSO Table I
                                  157.002,
455-F                 - -2004     157.077,
                                  157.999
634                   2-10-2004   118.06
635                   2-10-2004   TSO Table VIII
636                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
637                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
638                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
639                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
640                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
641                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
642                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
643                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
644                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
645                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
646                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
647                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
648                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
649                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
650                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
651                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
652                   2-24-2004   TSO Table I
654                   3-9-2004    TSO Table IV
656                   3-31-2004   TSO Table I
658                   4-7-2004    TSO Table I
659                   4-7-2004    TSO Table I
660                   4-7-2004    TSO Table I
657                   4-10-2004   TSO Table I
661                   7-13-2004   TSO Table I
                                  93.01—
662                   9-14-2004   93.18,
                                  93.99
664                   10-12-2004  TSO Table I
665                   10-12-2004  TSO Table I
625A                  2-22-2005   TSO Table I
                                  92.01—
663                   2-22-2005   92.18,
                                  92.99
623A                  3-8-2005    TSO Table I
666                   7-26-2005   TSO Table VIII
667                   9-13-2005   36.20
597A                  10- -2006   Ch. 74, Sch. I
631A                  1-9-2007    158.01
669                   2-27-2007   TSO Table II
632A                  3-13-2007   94.07,
                                  94.10
670                   3-13-2007   TSO Table IV
671                   7-10-2007   TSO Table II
672                   12-11-2007  TSO Table IV
                                  150.01,
673                   2-12-2008   150.02,
                                  150.04—
                                  150.08
262C                  3-11-2008   102.05
674                   4-8-2008    TSO Table II
420A                  8-26-2008   37.01
                                  72.01—
449A                  10-14-2008  72.05,
                                  72.99
                                  116.01—
548B                  1-27-2009   116.22,
                                  116.99
                                  50.01,
611A                  4-28-2009   50.12,
                                  50.13
675                   4-21-2009   38.03
605E                  5-12-2009   160.018
                                  150.20—
408B                  6-23-2009   150.29,
                                  150.99
                                  99.01—
156B                  7-14-2009   99.08.
                                  99.99
483-E                 8-11-2009   91.105
676                   9-1-2009    TSO Table IV
                                  116.01—
548-C                 6-22-2010   116.22,
                                  116.99
605-F                 1-11-2011   160.200,
                                  160.207
                                  160.003,
605-G                 3-8-2011    160.095,
                                  160.096
372-A                 5-10-2011   97.02—
                                  97.06
680                   8-16-2011   TSO Table VII
483-F                 9-11-2012   91.056
                                  116.08,
548-D                 2-12-2013   116.12,
                                  116.19
                                  160.003,
605-H                 3-12-2013   160.018,
                                  160.095
                                  120.01—
687                   7-15-2013   120.15 ,
                                  120.99
483-G                 8-26-2014   91.180
03-10-2015-01         3-24-2015   100.24
459-C                 4-13-2015   156.003
Res. 11-10-2015-02  11-10-2015  150.06
673-A                 11-10-2015  150.06
449-A                 --          100.02
548-E                 --          116.01—
                                  116.22
Res. 01-12-2016-1     1-12-2016   37.01
689                   8-2-2016    99.22,
                                  99.99
690                   12-13-2016  100.02,
                                  100.24
                                  50.50,
691                   1-10-2017   50.51,
                                  50.99
448-A                 3-1-2017    118.08
                                  160.240 —
692                   4-25-2017   160.242,
                                  160.999
693                   6-1-2017    37.15
                                  131.02,
630-A                 8-15-2017   131.04,
                                  131.05
                                  Charter Art. II Sections
                                  2.04,
                                  2.08, Art. III Section
                                  3.01, Art. IV Sections
                                  4.01,
- -                   - -         4.03,
                                  4.06,
                                  4.07, Art. V Sections
                                  5.07,
                                  5.09, Art. VI Section
                                  6.08
615-A                 10-24-2017  100.03
68-B                  12-12-2017  34.08
673-B                 12-12-2017  150.01—
                                  150.10
                                  161.01—
                                  161.04,
                                  161.10,
                                  161.15—
593-A                 1-17-2018   161.21,
                                  161.31—
                                  161.33,
                                  161.40—
                                  161.44,
                                  161.99
473-A                 - -         38.02
                                  104.01—
698                   4-10-2018   104.14,
                                  104.99
                                  134.01—
699                   7-10-2018   134.14,
                                  134.99
- -                   - -         Charter Art. IV Section
                                  4.05
                                  116.02—
                                  116.04,
548-F                 12-15-2020  116.08,
                                  116.09,
                                  116.13
                                  118.06,
                                  118.08,
634-A              12-15-2020  118.15,
                                  118.16,
                                  118.18
704                   6-28-2022   72.07,
                                  72.99
705                   6-28-2022   72.06,
                                  72.99
593-B                 7-12-2022   162.01—
                                  162.31
548-G                 1-24-2023   116.08
630-B                 3-14-2023   131.02
                                  150.01,
673-D                 6-13-2023   150.02,
                                  150.04—
                                  150.10
662-A                 7-25-2023   93.10,
                                  93.12
704-A                 12-19-2023  72.07
                                 
 
