CITY CODE OF
SANTA ANNA
TEXAS
Current through ordinances up to and including ordinance 050916-1, passed May
9, 2016
 
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
One West Fourth Street  *  3rd Floor  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This city code of the city of Santa Anna, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 050916-1, passed May 9, 2016. Ordinances of the
city adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this city code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
city office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Coeur d'Alene, Idaho
PENDING ORDINANCES
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 050916-1
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE SANTA ANNA, TEXAS CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Santa Anna, Texas,
as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of the city of Santa Anna, Texas prepared by Sterling Codifiers,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the city, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
PASSED this 9th day of May, 2016.
APPROVED this 9th day of May, 2016.
/s/         MayorATTEST:         Seal
/s/         City ClerkRoll Call Vote:AYES: 5NAYS: 0ABSENT: 1
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
SANTA ANNA CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of Santa Anna. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the SANTA ANNA CITY CODE, and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and shall be kept up to date as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter under the direction of the city attorney, acting for the
city council. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall
be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate
chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto,
as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to this code by title
in any legal document. (1988 Code §
1-1-1)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1988 Code §
1-1-2)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1988 Code §
1-1-3)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city secretary shall also see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city
secretary. Any person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall
make every effort to maintain this code in an up to date and efficient manner.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city
secretary. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be
returned to the office of the city secretary when directed so to do by order of
the city council. (1988 Code §
1-1-4)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the city; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (1988 Code §
1-2-1)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to
the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable.
If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed
as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as
waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force
at the time of the adoption of this code. (1988 Code §
1-2-3)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The city council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1988 Code § 1-2-4; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be held,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Santa Anna".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to city ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2016 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CITY: The city of Santa Anna, county of Coleman, state of Texas.
CODE: The city code of the city of Santa Anna.
COUNTY: The county of Coleman, state of Texas.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the city shall begin April 1 and end March 31.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
STATE: The state of Texas. (1988 Code §
1-3-2; amd. 2016 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1988
Code §
1-3-3)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Nonliability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
The municipal court shall have exclusive original jurisdiction and authority to
impose the following fines and any fine allowed by law. However, no fine
imposed shall be greater than that set out in Texas statutes.
   A.   A fine not to exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) in all criminal
cases arising under municipal ordinances that govern fire, safety, zoning, and
public health and sanitation, other than vegetation and litter violations.
   B.   A fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) in all other cases
that arise under the city ordinances. (1988 Code §
1-4-1; amd. 2016 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any
section of this code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or
where any action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to
be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed
or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (1988 Code §
1-4-2)
1-4-3: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1988 Code
§
1-4-3)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Mayor
1-5-2: Composition Of Council; Election And Terms
1-5-3: Holding Other City Offices Prohibited
1-5-4: Meetings
1-5-5: Presiding Officer
1-5-6: Quorum
1-5-7: Rules Of Order And Procedure
1-5-1: MAYOR:
   A.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Generally: The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the
city and shall be vigilant and active at all times in causing the laws and
ordinances of the city to be duly executed and enforced. He shall inspect the
conduct of the subordinate officers of the city, and so far as he may be able,
shall cause all negligence, carelessness and violations of duty to be
prosecuted and punished. (1988 Code §
1-5-1; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Administer Oaths: The mayor shall have power to administer oaths and
affirmations and give certificates therefor.
      3.   Signature Required; Enforce Contract Provisions: The mayor shall
officially sign all warrants upon the city treasury and all notes, bonds and
contracts, and all obligations in writing entered into by the city; and it
shall be his duty to see that all contracts with the city are faithfully
performed by the contracting parties.
   B.   Mayor Pro Tem:
      1.   The city council shall, by order made and entered on the minutes of
the city, designate a member of the city council to act as mayor pro tem with
all rights, powers and authority conferred upon the mayor of the city by law or
any ordinance thereof in the absence of the mayor from the city or his
incapacity for any reason to act.
      2.   Such mayor pro tem, when so designated by order entered on the
minutes, shall have all the rights, powers and authority that the mayor himself
would have if present and acting in the premises.
      3.   The mayor pro tem shall be elected by the council at the first
meeting after an election. This shall be the same meeting in which newly
elected aldermen take the oath of office or as soon thereafter as practical.
The mayor pro tem shall hold that office for one year's time or until a
successor is elected. (1988 Code §
1-5-1)
1-5-2: COMPOSITION OF COUNCIL; ELECTION AND TERMS:
The city council shall be composed of the mayor and five (5) aldermen, who
shall be elected by the qualified voters of the city at large. Three (3)
aldermen shall be elected on even numbered years. The mayor and two (2)
aldermen shall be elected on odd numbered years. (1988 Code §
1-5-2)
1-5-3: HOLDING OTHER CITY OFFICES PROHIBITED:
No member of the city council shall, during his continuance in office, exercise
any other office under the city government. (1988 Code §
1-5-3)
1-5-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the city council shall be
held on the second Monday of every month at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and shall
be open to the public; provided, that only members of the city council shall
participate in its deliberations except with its consent; provided further,
that city officers shall be allowed to address the council upon the duties of
their respective offices. (1988 Code §
1-5-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the city council may be called by
the mayor at any time he shall deem best for the interests of the city. Special
meetings may also be called by any three (3) members of the council when the
mayor is absent from the city or is sick or unable to officiate or when he
refuses to call a meeting, and in the opinion of such three (3) aldermen, the
interests of the city demand that such meeting be called. Notice shall be given
of each special meeting to the mayor, each alderman, the city secretary and the
city attorney, and it shall be the duty of the city secretary to notify all
members of the city council of the calling of a special meeting of the city
council.
   C.   Attendance At Meetings: Any member of the city council remaining absent
from the meetings thereof for three (3) consecutive meetings without first
having obtained leave of absence at a regular meeting (except when attendance
is prevented by sickness, emergency or unavoidable circumstances) shall be
deemed to have vacated his office, and the council shall have power under such
circumstances to declare the office of such alderman vacant. Each alderman
shall be fined three dollars ($3.00) for each meeting which he fails to attend,
unless attendance is prevented by sickness or emergency as above noted. (1988
Code §
1-5-4)
1-5-5: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The mayor shall be the presiding officer of the city council and shall cast the
deciding vote in case of a tie. In case of the absence of the mayor, the mayor
pro tem shall preside at city council meetings. (1988 Code §
1-5-5)
1-5-6: QUORUM:
Two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the city council shall constitute a quorum
to do business. (1988 Code §
1-5-6)
1-5-7: RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:
The following rules, from 1 to 18 inclusive, shall be the rules of procedure
for the transaction of business and the appointment of committees and shall
govern and be in force in all meetings of the city council:
Rule 1: At the hour of meeting, the mayor, or in his absence the mayor pro tem,
shall take the chair and call the meeting to order, note absentees and, if
there be a quorum present, the council shall proceed with the business before
it.
Rule 2: At all regular meetings, the following order of business shall be
observed: (1988 Code §
1-5-7)
      1.   Copies of minutes of the last regular meeting, and all called
meetings, if any, shall be provided by the city secretary, and if no objections
are made, the same shall be declared adopted. (1988 Code §
1-5-7; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Presentations and disposal of petitions.
      3.   Reports of city officials.
      4.   Reports of standing committees.
      5.   Reports of special committees.
      6.   Unfinished business.
      7.   New business.
      8.   Presentations, reading and passage of ordinances and resolutions.
      9.   Miscellaneous business.
      10.   Adjournment.
Rule 3: The mayor shall preserve order and shall decide all points of order.
Rule 4: While the mayor is putting the question, no member or other person
shall engage in conversation or walk across the floor.
Rule 5: Every person, before speaking, shall rise to his feet and shall address
himself to the presiding officer, but shall not proceed with his remarks until
recognized by the chair.
Rule 6: Every member, while speaking, shall confine himself to the question
under consideration and shall avoid personalities.
Rule 7: No member shall speak more than twice on the same question under
consideration or discussion without leave of the council, nor more than once
until all members wishing to speak shall have spoken.
Rule 8: Every member present, when a question is put, shall vote thereon unless
he is excused by the councilor unless he is directly interested therein, of
which the council shall judge.
Rule 9: No motion shall be put unless and until it shall be seconded.
Rule 10: If any member requests it, the ayes and nays upon any question shall
be entered on the journal or minutes.
Rule 11: A motion to adjourn shall always be in order except: 1) when a member
has the floor; 2) when the ayes and nays have been called for; or 3) when it
has been decided that the previous question shall be put.
Rule 12: When any question has been decided by the council, any member who
voted with the majority may move to reconsider it.
Rule 13: No question shall be reconsidered more than once.
Rule 14: All committees shall be appointed by the mayor unless otherwise
specifically directed by the council. (1988 Code §
1-5-7)
Rule 15: All boards of the council shall be appointed by the council, and such
boards may be appointed at any other time the council may direct, and vacancies
may be filled whenever they occur. (1988 Code §
1-5-7; amd. 2016 Code)
Rule 16: Authority is given to the city treasurer and the mayor to pay all
bills or other claims against the city payable from budgeted funds. (Ord.
111202, 11-11-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
Rule 17: All ordinances, before their passage, shall be read before the city
council and upon one reading, and when so passed, the same shall be in force
and effect from and after passage and publication of said ordinance in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city. (1988 Code §
1-5-7)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Officers Enumerated
1-6-2: Terms Of Office
1-6-3: Bond Requirements
1-6-4: Removals From Office
1-6-5: Social Security
1-6-6: Nonliability Of Officers And Personnel Regarding Responses To Emergency
Situations
1-6-1: OFFICERS ENUMERATED:
The municipal government of the city shall consist of a mayor and five (5)
aldermen, who shall compose the city council. The other officers shall be a
city attorney, city treasurer and city secretary, with such other officers as
the city council shall order, and by ordinance from time to time create and
prescribe. (1988 Code §
1-6-1; amd. 2016 Code)
1-6-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   Elected Officials: All officers elected by the people at a regular
election shall hold office for the term of two (2) years and until their
successors are elected and qualified.
   B.   Vacancies: All officers elected or appointed to fill vacancies shall
hold office for the unexpired term only. (1988 Code §
1-6-2)
1-6-3: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
All official bonds shall be subject to the approval of the city council, and
the council shall have the power at any time it shall deem the bond
insufficient to require another bond to be given, and no officer who shall be
required to give a new bond shall perform any other official acts until such
bond shall have been given and approved. Upon failure to give such bond in ten
(10) days after same is required, the office of the person of whom such bond is
required shall be declared vacant and shall be filled as in other case. (1988
Code §
1-6-3; amd. 2016 Code)
1-6-4: REMOVALS FROM OFFICE:
   A.   Any officer of the city may be removed from office by the city council
for incompetency, corruption, misconduct or malfeasance in office.
   B.   Before any officer shall be removed from office, he shall be given five
(5) days' notice of the time and place when the hearing of the charges against
him will be held, together with the service of a copy of the charges against
him. When the mayor is accused, the mayor pro tem shall serve in his stead, and
no officer shall be removed except upon a two- thirds (2/3) vote of the members
present. (1988 Code §
1-6-4)
1-6-5: SOCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   The city council, acting for and on behalf of the city, shall enter
into all necessary agreements with the state department of public welfare for
the purpose of abiding by the state social security laws. (1988 Code §
1-6-5; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   The mayor pro tem is hereby appointed as agent of the city council and
of the city to execute all necessary agreements and instruments for and on
behalf of the city council and the city.
   C.   The city secretary is hereby directed to be the person responsible for
making assessments, collections, payments and reports as required by the state
department of public welfare.
   D.   A sufficient sum of money shall be allocated and set aside from
available funds for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the above
mentioned acts, such money so allocated and set aside to be known as the city
of Santa Anna social security fund, which fund shall be set aside and
maintained in the regular city depository. (1988 Code §
1-6-5)
1-6-6: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL REGARDING RESPONSES TO EMERGENCY
SITUATIONS:
Every officer, agent or employee of the city and every officer, agent or
employee of an authorized provider of emergency services including, but not
limited to, every unit of government or subdivision thereof, while responding
to emergency calls or reacting to emergency situations, regardless of whether
any emergency has been declared or proclaimed by the city, is hereby authorized
to act or not to act in such a manner to effectively deal with the emergency.
An action or inaction is deemed to be an effective manner of dealing with the
emergency if it in any way contributes or can reasonably be thought to
contribute to preserving or protecting lives or property, or enforcing the laws
of the city, county or state. This section shall prevail over every ordinance
of the city and, to the extent to which the city has the authority to so
authorize, over any other law establishing a standard of care in conflict with
this section. Neither the city nor the employee, agent or officer thereof or
other unit of government or subdivision thereof or its employees, agents or
officers shall be liable for recklessness for the failure to use ordinary care
in such emergency. It is the intent of the city council, by adopting this
section, to assure immediate action in emergency situations by those entrusted
with the responsibility of saving and protecting lives and property by
protecting such governmental units from liability and their employees, agents,
and officers from nonintentional tort liability to the fullest extent permitted
by statutory and constitutional law. This section shall be liberally construed
to carry out the intent of the city council. (1988 Code § 1-6-7; amd. 2016
Code)
ARTICLE A.  CITY SECRETARY
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Duties
1-6A-2: Certification; Municipal Court Clerk
1-6A-3: Compensation
1-6A-4: Deputy City Secretary
1-6A-1: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The city secretary shall perform such duties as are required
of him by law. The city secretary shall also:
      1.   Attend every meeting of the city council and keep accurate minutes
of the proceedings of the city council.
      2.   Engross and enroll all laws, resolutions and ordinances of the city
council.
      3.   Keep the corporate seal.
      4.   Take charge of and preserve all books, records, papers, documents
and files of the city.
      5.   Countersign all commissions issued to city officers and licenses
issued by the mayor and keep a record of these.
      6.   Notify the Texas judicial council of the name of any person elected
or appointed as mayor, municipal court judge or municipal court clerk of the
city not later than thirty (30) days from date of appointment or election.
      7.   Prepare all notices required under any regulation or ordinance of
the city.
      8.   Perform such other duties as the city council may require. (Ord.
090808-1, 9-8-2008)
   B.   Water Accounts: It shall be the duty of the city secretary/utility
clerk to collect all water accounts and to correctly keep same and make due
reports to the city council. Said duties shall be as set forth in section
7-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 090808-1, 9-8-2008; amd. 2016 Code)
1-6A-2: CERTIFICATION; MUNICIPAL COURT CLERK:
Texas Local Government Code section 22.074 states that a person may be
certified to serve as municipal clerk. However, this section does not require a
person to be certified as a municipal secretary in order to practice in that
capacity. The municipal clerk shall serve as municipal court clerk if
authorized by ordinance. (Ord. 090808-1, 9-8-2008)
1-6A-3: COMPENSATION:
The city secretary shall receive for his services an hourly salary payable at
stated periods and such additional fees as the city council may allow. (Ord.
090808-1, 9-8-2008)
1-6A-4: DEPUTY CITY SECRETARY:
There may also be appointed such deputy city secretary as may be necessary for
the efficient operation of the city office. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE B.  CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Duties
1-6B-2: Bond Requirements
1-6B-3: Compensation
1-6B-1: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The city treasurer shall perform such duties as are required
of him by law. The city treasurer shall also:
      1.   Draw all warrants on the treasurer and countersign the same and keep
an account of all warrants in a separate record.
      2.   Be the general accountant of the city.
      3.   Keep in books regular accounts of the receipts and disbursements of
the city.
      4.   Keep a register of all bonds and bills issued by the city.
      5.   Keep a record of all contracts of the city.
      6.   Countersign all bonds issued by the city. (Ord. 090808-1, 9-8-2008)
      7.   Receive and securely keep all monies belonging to the city and make
all payments on the order of the mayor, attested by the city secretary under
the seal of the city. He may not pay an order unless the face of the order
shows that the city council directed the issuance of the order and shows the
purpose for which it is issued.
      8.   Render to the city council a full statement of the receipts and
payments. The statement must be rendered at the council's first regular meeting
in every month and at other times as required by the council.
      9.   Perform other acts and duties as the city council requires. (Ord.
090808-1, 9-8-2008; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Annual Financial Statement:
      1.   The city treasurer is the designated officer who must report to the
city council in conjunction with the publication of the annual financial
statement of the city 1 . (Ord. 090808-1, 9-8-2008)
      2.   In conjunction with the publication of the annual financial
statement of the city, the city treasurer shall prepare a report which shall
describe in summary form: (Ord. 090808-1, 9-8-2008; amd. 2016 Code)
         a.   Receipts and expenditures of the city treasury.
         b.   The balance in each fund.
         c.   The amount of bonds coming due for redemption that require
action.
         d.   Interest to be paid during the next fiscal year. (Ord. 090808-1,
9-8-2008)
         e.   Any other information required by law to be reported by the city
treasurer. (Ord. 090808-1, 9-8-2008; amd. 2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Local Government Code § 105.092.
1-6B-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
The city treasurer shall execute a bond. The bond must:
   A.   Be in favor of the city; (Ord. 090808-1, 9-8-2008)
   B.   Be in the form and amount required by the city council;
   C.   Have security approved as sufficient by the city council; and (Ord.
090808-1, 9-8-2008; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Be conditioned that the treasurer will faithfully discharge the duties
of the office. (Ord. 090808-1, 9-8-2008)
1-6B-3: COMPENSATION:
The city treasurer shall receive for his services an hourly salary payable at
stated periods and such additional fees as the city council may allow. (Ord.
090808-1, 9-8-2008)
ARTICLE C.  CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Qualifications; Compensation
1-6C-2: Duties
1-6C-1: QUALIFICATIONS; COMPENSATION:
The duties of the city attorney shall be conferred upon a practicing attorney
at law, duly admitted to the state bar of Texas, and in good standing
therewith. Such duties shall be conferred individually, as the needs of the
city may require. Compensation of the attorney performing such duties shall be
the same as the prevailing fees for the same or similar work in the county.
(1988 Code §
1-6C-1)
1-6C-2: DUTIES:
It is hereby made the duty of the city attorney:
   A.   To institute, prosecute and defend on behalf of the city all suits to
which the city is a party in this state.
   B.   To give his opinion upon matters of law to the city council and the
committees thereof and the other city officers when requested in regard to the
affairs and business of the city.
   C.   To prepare all legal documents and deed contracts to which the city may
be a party. (1988 Code § 1-6C-2)
   D.   To review all ordinances and resolutions, as needed, by request of a
city official. (1988 Code § 1-6C-2; amd. 2016 Code)
ARTICLE D.  FIRE MARSHAL
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Office Created; Appointment; Qualifications; Compensation
1-6D-2: Fire Investigations
1-6D-3: Indication Of Crime
1-6D-4: Witnesses; Misconduct
1-6D-5: Right Of Entry
1-6D-6: Inspections
1-6D-7: Dangerous Buildings; Orders And Appeals
1-6D-8: Recordkeeping
1-6D-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; COMPENSATION:
The office of fire marshal is hereby created, and such office shall be
independent of other city departments. The fire marshal shall be appointed by
the city council and shall report directly to the mayor and city council. The
fire marshal shall be properly qualified for the duties of his office and shall
be removed only for cause. He shall receive such compensation as provided by
the city council. (1988 Code §
1-6D-1)
1-6D-2: FIRE INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Duty To Investigate Fires: The fire marshal shall investigate the
cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring within the city by
which property has been destroyed or damaged and shall especially make
investigation as to whether such fire was the result of carelessness or design.
Such investigation shall be commenced within twenty four (24) hours (not
including Sunday) of the occurrence of such fire.
   B.   Take Testimonies: The fire marshal when, in his opinion, further
investigation is necessary, shall take or cause to be taken the testimony, on
oath, of all persons supposed to be cognizant of any facts or to have means of
knowledge in relation to the matter under investigation and shall cause the
same to be reduced to writing.
   C.   Summon Witnesses, Require Production Of Evidence And Administer Oaths:
The fire marshal shall have the power to summon witnesses before him to testify
in relation to any matter which is, by the provisions of this article, a
subject of inquiry and investigation and may require the production of any
book, paper or document deemed pertinent thereto. The fire marshal is hereby
authorized and empowered to administer oaths and affirmations to any persons
appearing before him as witnesses.
   D.   Investigations May Be Private; Separation Of Witnesses: All
investigations held by or under the direction of the fire marshal may, in his
discretion, be private, and persons other than those required to be present may
be excluded from the place where such investigation is held, and witnesses may
be kept separate and apart from each other and not allowed to communicate with
each other until they have been examined. (1988 Code §
1-6D-2)
   E.   Major Investigations: In the case of a major investigation, the city
fire marshal can bring in the state fire marshal. (2016 Code)
1-6D-3: INDICATION OF CRIME:
If the fire marshal shall be of the opinion that there is evidence sufficient
to charge any person with the crime of arson, or with the attempt to commit the
crime of arson, or of conspiracy to defraud, or criminal conduct in connection
with any fire, he shall cause such person to be lawfully arrested and charged
with such offense or either of them and shall furnish to the proper prosecuting
attorney all such evidence, together with the names of witnesses and all the
information obtained by him including a copy of all pertinent and material
testimony taken in the case. (1988 Code §
1-6D-3)
1-6D-4: WITNESSES; MISCONDUCT:
Any witness who refuses to be sworn, or who refuses to appear or testify, or
who disobeys any lawful order of the fire marshal, or who fails or refuses to
produce any book, paper or document touching any matter under examination, or
who is guilty of any contemptuous conduct during any of the proceedings of the
fire marshal in the matter of such investigation or inquiry, after being
summoned to give testimony in relation to any matter under investigation, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and it shall be the duty of the fire marshal
to cause all such offenders to be prosecuted. (1988 Code §
1-6D-4)
1-6D-5: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The fire marshal shall have the authority, at all times of the day or night,
when necessary in the performance of the duties imposed upon him by the
provisions of this article, to enter upon and examine any building or premises
where any fire has occurred, and other buildings and premises adjoining or near
the same, which authority shall be exercised only with reason and good
discretion. (1988 Code §
1-6D-5)
1-6D-6: INSPECTIONS:
The fire marshal, upon the complaint of any person having an interest in any
building or property adjacent thereto, or without any complaint, shall have the
right at all reasonable hours, for the purpose of examination, to enter into
and upon all buildings and premises within the city, and it shall be his duty,
monthly or more often, to enter upon and make, or cause to be entered upon and
made, a thorough examination of all mercantile, manufacturing and public
buildings, together with the premises belonging thereto. (1988 Code §
1-6D-6)
1-6D-7: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; ORDERS AND APPEALS:
   A.   Whenever the fire marshal shall find any building or other structure
which, for want of repair or by reason of age or dilapidated condition or for
any cause, is especially liable to fire, and which is so situated as to
endanger other buildings or property, or so occupied that the fire would
endanger persons or property therein, and whenever he shall find an improper or
dangerous arrangement of stoves, ranges, furnaces or other heating appliances
of any kind whatsoever, including chimneys, flues and pipes with which the same
may be connected, or a dangerous arrangement of lighting devices or electrical
wiring or a dangerous or unlawful storage of explosives, compounds, petroleum,
gasoline, kerosene, dangerous chemicals, vegetable products, ashes,
combustible, inflammable refuse materials, wastepaper, rags or other conditions
which may be dangerous in character or liable to cause or promote fire or
create conditions dangerous to firefighters combatting a fire or to occupants,
he shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and there shall forthwith be
compliance with such order by the owner or occupant of the building or
premises.
   B.   If said owner or occupant deems himself aggrieved by such order, he
may, within five (5) days, appeal such order to the mayor, who shall
investigate the cause of the complaint, and unless such order is revoked by the
mayor, such order shall remain in force and there shall be compliance forthwith
by said owner or occupant. Any owner or occupant who fails to comply with such
order within a ten (10) day period from the date of such notice shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. (1988 Code §
1-6D-7)
1-6D-8: RECORDKEEPING:
The fire marshal shall keep in his office a record of all fires, together with
all facts, statistics and circumstances, including the origin of the fires and
amounts of the loss, which may be determined by the investigation required by
this article. (1988 Code §
1-6D-8; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Court Created
1-7-2: Judge Of The Court
1-7-3: Court Clerk And Deputies
1-7-4: Practices And Procedures
1-7-5: Bail; Failure To Appear
1-7-6: Fines And Court Costs
1-7-1: COURT CREATED:
There is hereby created a court in and for the city which shall be known as the
"municipal court". This court shall have jurisdiction within the city with
power to hear and determine all cases of alleged violations of the ordinances
of the city and all other cases over which municipal courts are generally given
jurisdiction by state law and city ordinance. (1988 Code §
1-7-1)
1-7-2: JUDGE OF THE COURT:
   A.   Office Created; Powers And Duties: There is hereby created the office
of judge of the municipal court who shall have all the powers and authority as
granted by, and shall perform all the duties as required by, state law.
   B.   Oath Of Office: Prior to taking office, the judge of the municipal
court shall take the oath of office required by the state constitution and
state laws. This is the oath required by the state law for the mayors of
cities.
   C.   Compensation: The amount of compensation to the judge shall be set from
time to time by the city council.
   D.   Mayor Serve As Ex Officio Judge: The mayor of the city shall be ex
officio judge of the municipal court and as such shall have and exercise the
authority, jurisdiction and powers which are conferred by law upon the judge.
In case of the absence, disqualification or inability of the mayor for any
cause to act, then the mayor pro tem shall act as such judge. (1988 Code §
1-7-2)
1-7-3: COURT CLERK AND DEPUTIES:
   A.   Appointments: There shall be appointed by the city council a clerk of
the municipal court, and there may also be appointed such deputy clerks as may
be necessary for the efficient operation of the municipal court.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The clerk of the municipal court and such deputy
clerks as may be appointed shall perform all duties and have all the powers
bestowed upon clerks of municipal courts by state law. Any clerk or deputy
clerk so appointed shall act as official clerk of the municipal court and shall
perform all acts incident to such office. (1988 Code §
1-7-3)
1-7-4: PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES:
The rules prescribed by state law governing trials in the state justice of the
peace courts shall govern the procedure and practice of the municipal court,
and the city council may prescribe such additional rules of practice and
procedure as are not inconsistent with state law. (1988 Code §
1-7-4)
1-7-5: BAIL; FAILURE TO APPEAR:
If any person admitted to bail in the municipal court shall fail to appear
according to the conditions of his bond or, having appeared, shall leave the
court before his trial or before he is legally discharged from the obligations
of such bond, the judge shall declare his bond forfeited, which forfeiture
shall be entered of record and such other proceedings had thereon as in like
cases are provided in courts of the justice of the peace. (1988 Code §
1-7-5)
1-7-6: FINES AND COURT COSTS:
   A.   Court Costs:
      1.   There shall be taxed against each defendant in cases of conviction
in the court the same costs as are taxed in courts of justices of the peace in
similar cases or other fines and costs allowed by state law and city ordinance.
(1988 Code §
1-7-6)
      2.   The municipal court may collect a special expense for services
performed in cases in which the laws of the state require that the case be
dismissed because of actions by or on behalf of the defendant which were
subsequent to the date of the alleged offense. Such actions are limited to
compliance with the provisions of section (a), section 143A, uniform act
regulating traffic on highways. Such special expense shall not exceed the
actual expenses incurred for the services or twenty dollars ($20.00), whichever
is less.
   B.   Failure To Pay:
      1.   Imprisonment: In all cases in which a fine is imposed by the court,
the defendant shall, in default of payment of such fine and costs of
prosecution, stand committed to imprisonment in jail for the length of time
prescribed by the laws of the state for crediting time served to pay a fine;
provided, however, upon a finding, after notice to the court and a hearing
thereon, that the defendant is indigent, he shall not be imprisoned.
      2.   Labor: Every person committed to jail for failure to pay any fine or
costs assessed against him by the municipal court may be required to labor upon
the streets or public works of the city, and for such labor, such persons shall
be allowed the sum allowed by law.
   C.   Disposition Of Revenues:
      1.   When a part of the fine and costs are paid in money and a part
worked out or served out in jail, the part paid in money shall be applied first
to the payment of the costs, and if it is insufficient to pay all the costs, it
shall be prorated among the several offices entitled thereto according to the
amounts due each office. (1988 Code §
1-7-6; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   All fines and penalties assessed or imposed by the court shall, when
collected, be paid into the city treasury and shall be the property of the
city; and all costs, when collected, shall be paid to the several offices
entitled the same, who shall receipt on the docket for such costs. (1988 Code §
1-7-6)
CHAPTER 8
CITY ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Election Ward
1-8-2: State Law To Govern; Duties Of City Officials
1-8-3: Notice Of Election
1-8-4: Judges Of Election
1-8-5: Time For Holding Elections
1-8-1: ELECTION WARD:
The city shall not be divided into wards, but is hereby consolidated and
declared to be one whole, and the provisions of the statutes and general laws
of this state relating to city wards and the proceedings and references thereto
shall, so far as they are applicable, apply to the city as a whole. (1988 Code
§
1-8-1)
1-8-2: STATE LAW TO GOVERN; DUTIES OF CITY OFFICIALS:
All elections pertaining to municipal affairs shall be governed by the election
laws of the state of Texas. In all city elections, the mayor, city secretary or
the city council shall do and perform each act in other elections required to
be done and performed respectively by the county judge and the county clerk or
the commissioners' court. In all city elections, the mayor or, if he fails to
do so, the city council, shall order the election, give notice and appoint
election officers to hold the election. (1988 Code §
1-8-2; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-3: NOTICE OF ELECTION:
The city secretary shall post a properly executed copy of the election order
and notice at the place where the election is to be held. Said notice shall be
posted according to state law. (1988 Code §
1-8-3)
1-8-4: JUDGES OF ELECTION:
All municipal elections shall be conducted by one presiding officer or judge
and two (2) assistant judges to be appointed by the city council. The presiding
officer and the assistant judges shall be compensated at the rate established
by the city council for which services shall be paid from the general fund of
the city. (1988 Code §
1-8-4; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-5: TIME FOR HOLDING ELECTIONS:
Elections shall be held in the city for the purpose of electing municipal
officers in accordance with the Texas election law 1 . (1988 Code §
1-8-5)
 
Notes
1 1. Election Code § 41.001 et seq.
CHAPTER 9
CITY TAXES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Property Tax
1-9-2: Hotel Occupancy Tax
1-9-2-1:    Definitions
1-9-2-2:    Tax Levied; Amount
1-9-2-3:    Report Required; Payment Of Tax; Late Payment Penalty
1-9-2-4:    Use Of Funds
1-9-1: PROPERTY TAX:
The ad valorem tax rate on real property situated in the city is to be set each
year by the city council. (1988 Code §
1-9-1)
1-9-2: HOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX:
1-9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section
1-9-2, are defined as follows:
CONSIDERATION: The cost of the room in a hotel only if the room is one
ordinarily used for sleeping, and shall not include the cost of any food served
or personal services rendered to the occupant of such room not related to the
cleaning and readying of the room for occupancy.
HOTEL:
   A.   A building in which members of the public obtain sleeping
accommodations for consideration. The term includes a hotel, motel, tourist
home, tourist house, tourist court, lodging house, inn, rooming house, or bed
and breakfast. The term does not include:
      1.   A hospital, sanatorium, or nursing home;
      2.   A dormitory or other housing facility owned or leased and operated
by an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution
of higher education, as those terms are defined by Texas Education Code section
61.003, used by the institution for the purpose of providing sleeping
accommodations for persons engaged in an educational program or activity at the
institution; or
      3.   An oilfield portable unit, as defined by Texas Tax Code section
152.001.
   B.   For purposes of the imposition of a hotel occupancy tax under this
section
1-9-2, Texas Tax Code chapter 351 or 352, or other law, "hotel" includes a
short term rental, which means the rental of all or part of a residential
property to a person who is not a permanent resident under Texas Tax Code
section 156.101.
OCCUPANT: Anyone who, for a consideration, uses or possesses, or has a right to
use or possess, any room in a hotel if the room is one ordinarily used for
sleeping. (1988 Code § 1-9-2-2; amd. 2016 Code)
1-9-2-2: TAX LEVIED; AMOUNT:
There shall be levied upon occupancy of any sleeping room furnished by any
hotel, where the cost of occupancy is at a rate of two dollars ($2.00) or more
per day, a tax equal to five percent (5%) of the cost of said occupancy. (1988
Code § 1-9-2-1)
1-9-2-3: REPORT REQUIRED; PAYMENT OF TAX; LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
The reporting and payment of the hotel occupancy tax shall be made to the city
secretary on a form provided by the city and on the following time schedule:
   A.   Collection of said tax shall begin with business on October 1, 1994.
   B.   Failure to report said tax shall be penalized by the hotel paying one
percent (1%) of said tax as penalty for each month or part of a month which
said report is late or tax not paid.
   C.   The tax shall be reported and paid on a quarterly basis with the
quarters ending on the following dates:
      1.   First quarter: March 31.
      2.   Second quarter: June 30.
      3.   Third quarter: September 30.
      4.   Fourth quarter: December 31.
with said reports and taxes due thirty (30) days after the close of said
quarters. (1988 Code §
1-9-2-3)
1-9-2-4: USE OF FUNDS:
The use of all funds received by the city shall be restricted as provided in
Texas Tax Code section 351.101(a)(3) for advertising for general promotional
and tourist advertising of the city and its vicinity and conducting a
solicitation and operating program to attract conventions and visitors either
by the city or through contracts with persons or organizations selected by the
city. (1988 Code §
1-9-2-4)
CHAPTER 10
MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1: City Limits
1-10-2: Official Newspaper
1-10-3: Notice Requirements For Claims Against City
1-10-1: CITY LIMITS:
The territory embraced within the city limits shall be and is the same as set
out in the order of the county judge declaring the fact of the incorporation of
the city, which order is of record in the records of the minutes of the
commissioner's court of the county and is hereby referred to and adopted. (1988
Code §
1-10-1)
1-10-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The city council hereby designates the "Coleman Chronicle And Democratic Voice"
as the official newspaper of the city in which shall be published all
ordinances, notices and other matters required by law or by ordinance of the
city to be published. (Ord. 111207-2, 11-12-2007; amd. 2016 Code)
1-10-3: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR CLAIMS AGAINST CITY:
   A.   Notice To City Required; Contents: Before the city shall be liable in
any suit, including suits for damages, injury or destruction to property of any
kind or nature or for damages, torts or injuries to persons of any kind or
nature, in the event the injury results in death or injuries to another, the
person or persons who may have a cause of action under the law by reason of
such death or injury shall, within ninety (90) days or for good cause shown
within six (6) months from the date the damage or injury was received, serve
written notice upon the mayor and city council which includes all of the
following information:
      1.   The date and time when the injury or damage occurred and the
location of the incident.
      2.   The nature of the damage or injury sustained.
      3.   The apparent extent of the damage or injury sustained.
      4.   A specific and detailed statement of the facts of the incident and
under what circumstances the damage or injury occurred.
      5.   The amount for which each claimant will settle.
      6.   The actual place of residence of each claimant by street, number,
city and state on the date the claim is presented and the actual residence of
such claimant for the six (6) months immediately preceding the incident.
      7.   In the case of personal injury, tort claims, or death, the names and
addresses of all persons who, according to the knowledge or information of the
claimant, witnessed the happening of the injury or any part thereof and the
names of the doctors, if any, to whose care the injured person is committed.
      8.   In the case of property damage, the location of the damaged property
at the time the claim was submitted along with the names and addresses of all
persons who witnessed the incident or any part thereof or who have relevant
information.
   B.   Suits: No suit of any nature whatsoever shall be instituted or
maintained against the city unless the plaintiff(s) therein shall ever prove
that prior to the filing of the original petition the plaintiff(s) complied
with the notification requirements set forth herein and did thereby request
from the city council the redress, satisfaction, compensation, or relief
demanded in such suit, and that the same was, by vote of the city council,
refused.
   C.   Service Of Notices: All notices required herein must be served upon the
mayor and the city council by certified mail or by personally serving said
persons. All such notices shall be effective only when actually received. The
claimant must prove that service upon the appropriate persons was perfected as
herein required.
   D.   Failure To Notify: Failure to notify the mayor and city council within
the time and manner provided herein shall exonerate, excuse and exempt the city
from any liability whatsoever.
   E.   Waivers Prohibited: No person may waive the notification requirements
established herein. Actual knowledge of the incident shall not constitute a
waiver of the requirement of a written notification and service of such notice.
(Ord. 8800-2, 8-8-2000)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
2-1-1: Interpretation
2-1-2: Emergency Management Officials
2-1-3: Joint Emergency Management Council
2-1-4: Emergency Management Organization And Plan
2-1-5: Oath Of Office
2-1-6: Expenditures
2-1-7: Disclaimers Of Liability
2-1-8: Prohibited Acts
2-1-1: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and
promulgated pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede
and override all existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as
the latter may be inconsistent herewith.
   B.   This chapter shall not be construed so as to conflict with any state or
federal statute or with any military or naval order, rule or regulation. (1988
Code §
2-1-1)
2-1-2: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Emergency Management Director:
      1.   Mayor Serve As: There exists the office of emergency management
director of the city which shall be held by the mayor in accordance with state
law.
      2.   Powers And Duties: The director shall be responsible for conducting
a program of comprehensive emergency management within the city and for
carrying out the duties and responsibilities set forth in this subsection. He
may delegate authority for execution of these duties to the coordinator, but
ultimate responsibility for such execution shall remain with the director. The
powers and duties of the director shall include an ongoing survey of actual or
potential major hazards which threaten life and property within the city; and
an ongoing program of identifying and requiring or recommending the
implementation of measures which would tend to prevent the occurrence or reduce
the impact of such hazards if a disaster did occur. As part of his
responsibility in hazard mitigation, the director shall supervise the
development of an emergency management plan for the city and shall recommend
that plan for adoption by the city council along with any and all mutual aid
plans and agreements which are deemed essential for the implementation of such
emergency management plan. The powers of the director shall include the
authority to declare a state of disaster, but such action may be subject to
confirmation by the city council at its next meeting. The duties of the
director shall also include the causing of a survey of the availability of
existing personnel, equipment, supplies and services which could be used during
a disaster, as provided herein, as well as a continuing study of the need for
amendments and improvements in the emergency management plan. The duties and
responsibilities of the emergency management director shall include the
following:
         a.   The direction and control of the actual disaster operations of
the Santa Anna emergency management organization as well as the training of
emergency management personnel.
         b.   The determination of all questions of authority and
responsibility that may arise within the emergency management organization of
the city.
         c.   The maintenance of necessary liaisons with other municipal,
county, district, state, regional, federal or other emergency management
organizations.
         d.   The marshaling, after declaration of a disaster as provided
herein, of all necessary personnel, equipment or supplies from any department
of the city to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the emergency
management plan.
         e.   The issuance of all necessary proclamations as to the existence
of a disaster and the immediate effectiveness of the city emergency management
plan.
         f.   The issuance of reasonable rules, regulations or directives which
are necessary for the protection of life and property in the city. Such rules
and regulations shall be filed in the office of the city secretary and shall
receive widespread publicity unless publicity would be of aid and comfort to
the enemy. (1988 Code § 2-1-2-1)
         g.   The supervision and drafting and execution of mutual aid
agreements, in cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other
local political subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if
deemed desirable, of an agreement with the county and with other municipalities
within the county, for the countywide coordination of emergency management
efforts. (1988 Code § 2-1-2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
         h.   The supervision of and final authorization for the procurement of
all necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private
contributions which may be offered for the purpose of improving emergency
management within the city.
         i.   The authorizing of agreements, after approval by the city
attorney, for use of private property for public shelter and other purposes.
(1988 Code § 2-1-2-1)
   B.   Emergency Management Coordinator: An emergency management coordinator
may be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the director. (1988 Code § 2-
1-2-2)
2-1-3: JOINT EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COUNCIL:
The mayor is hereby authorized to join with the county judge and the mayors of
the other cities in the county in the formation of an emergency management
council for the county, and shall have the authority to cooperate in the
preparation of a joint emergency management plan and in the appointment of a
joint emergency management coordinator, as well as all powers necessary to
participate in a countywide program of emergency management insofar as said
program may affect the city. (1988 Code §
2-1-3)
2-1-4: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION AND PLAN:
The operational emergency management organization of the city shall consist of
the officers and employees of the city so designated by the director in the
emergency management plan, as well as all organized volunteer groups. The
functions and duties of this organization shall be distributed among such
officers and employees in accordance with the terms of the emergency management
plan. Such plan shall set forth the form of the organization, establish and
designate divisions and functions, assign tasks, duties and powers, and
designate officers and employees to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
Insofar as possible, the form of organization, titles and terminology shall
conform to the recommendations of the state division of emergency management of
the state of Texas and of the federal government. (1988 Code §
2-1-4)
2-1-5: OATH OF OFFICE:
Each employee or any individual that is assigned a function or responsibility
shall solemnly swear or affirm to support and defend the constitution of the
United States, laws of the state of Texas and the ordinances of the city. (1988
Code §
2-1-5)
2-1-6: EXPENDITURES:
No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city in
carrying out any emergency management activity authorized by this chapter
without prior approval by the city council, nor shall any person have the right
to bind the city by contract, agreement or otherwise without prior and specific
approval of the city council. (1988 Code §
2-1-6)
2-1-7: DISCLAIMERS OF LIABILITY:
   A.   Nonliability Of City: This chapter is an exercise by the city of its
governmental functions for the protection of the public peace, health and
safety and neither the city, the agents and representatives of the city, nor
any individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association or
trustee, nor any of the agents thereof in good faith carrying out, complying
with or attempting to comply with any order, rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be liable for any damage
sustained to persons as the result of said activity.
   B.   Nonliability Of Property Owner: Any person owning or controlling real
estate or other premises who voluntarily and without compensation grants to the
city a license or privilege, or otherwise permits the city to inspect,
designate and use the whole or any part or parts of such real estate or
premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual, impending or
practice enemy attack shall, together with his successors in interest, if any,
not be civilly liable for the death of or injury to any person on or about such
real estate or premises under such license, privilege or other permission or
for loss of or damage to the property of such person. (1988 Code §
2-1-7)
2-1-8: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Interference With Or Impersonating Organization Members: It shall be
unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the
emergency management organization in the enforcement of any rule or regulation
issued pursuant to the authority contained in this chapter. It shall likewise
be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or display any emblem, insignia or
any other means of identification as a member of the emergency management
organization of the city unless authority to do so has been granted to such
person by the proper officials.
   B.   Unlawful Use Of Sirens: Any unauthorized person who shall operate a
siren or other device so as to simulate a warning signal, or the termination of
a warning, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to the penalties imposed herein. (1988 Code §
2-1-8)
CHAPTER 2
HOUSING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Created; Composition; Appointment And Term; Vacancies
2-2-2: Procedures
2-2-1: BOARD CREATED; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT AND TERM; VACANCIES:
There is hereby created a housing board of appeals which shall consist of five
(5) members appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city
council. The board shall be appointed at the first meeting of the city council
in January of each year, and the appointment shall last for one year. A vacancy
shall be filled at the first council meeting after it occurs. (1988 Code §
2-2-1)
2-2-2: PROCEDURES:
A quorum shall consist of three (3) or more board members. The board shall act
by majority vote of the members present, and the board shall have the power and
be required to hold public hearings in deciding appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in law or fact in any order or decision of the housing
enforcing official in the enforcement of the housing code. (1988 Code §
2-2-1)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Permit Required; Exceptions
3-1-3: Application For Permit; Approval And Issuance; Conditions
3-1-4: Grounds For Denial Or Revocation Of Permit
3-1-5: Contents Of Permit
3-1-6: Permit Fee And Term
3-1-7: Bond Requirements
3-1-8: Nonassignment Of Permit
3-1-9: Display Of Permit And Information
3-1-10: Places And Hours Of Solicitations
3-1-11: Use Of Streets And Sidewalks
3-1-12: Trespasses
3-1-13: Enforcement Of Provisions
3-1-14: Appeals
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
CHARITABLE PURPOSE: Philanthropic, religious or other nonprofit objectives,
including the benefit of poor, needy, sick, refugee or persons with
disabilities; the benefit of any church or religious society, sect, group or
order; the benefit of a patriotic or veterans' association; the benefit of any
fraternal, social or civic organization; or the benefit of any educational
institution. The term "charitable purpose" does not include the direct benefit
of the individual making the solicitation or to include the benefit of any
political group or political organization which is subject to financial
disclosure under state or federal law.
COMMERCIAL TRAVELER: A person who is employed by or who represents a
manufacturer, wholesaler or importer who sells or exhibits goods to parties who
engage in the business of purchasing such goods for the purpose of resale to
the general public.
GOODS: Tangible chattels of every kind and character.
HOME SOLICITATION: A consumer transaction for the purchase of goods and/or
services or realty, payable in installments or in cash, in which the merchant
engages in a personal solicitation of the sale to the consumer at a residence,
and the consumer's agreement or offer to purchase is given at the residence to
the merchant. A home solicitation transaction shall not include a sale made
pursuant to a preexisting revolving charge account or retail charge agreement,
or a sale made pursuant to prior negotiations between parties at a business
establishment at a fixed location where goods and/or services are offered or
exhibited for sale, or a sale of realty in which the purchase is represented by
a licensed attorney or in which the transaction is being negotiated by a
licensed real estate broker.
ITINERANT MERCHANT: A person who moves stocks of goods or samples of goods into
the city for the purpose of selling or offering for sale or taking orders for
the sale of such goods with the intention of removing such samples or the
unsold portion of such goods away from the city before the expiration of one
month and who has no fixed place of business within the city for which definite
arrangements have been made for the use, occupancy, hire, rental or lease of
such place for a term of at least one month.
PEDDLER: A person, who has no fixed place of business or residence within the
city, who carries goods upon a truck or other vehicle on the streets of the
city for the purpose of exhibiting, selling or offering for sale such goods
from such truck or other vehicle or who, within the city, goes from door to
door of residences, offices or places of business to display, sell, offer for
sale, or take orders for the sale of goods and/or services, or to exhibit
brochures, sales literature or price lists for the purpose of taking orders for
the sale of goods and/or services, or who, within the city, exhibits, sells,
offers for sale or takes orders for the sale of goods and/or services from a
vacant lot, parking lot, tent, boat, storage bin, stall or unenclosed
structure.
PERSON: An individual natural person. The term "person" does not include any
corporation, firm, association, partnership or joint venture.
SOLICITATION: Any uninvited request for the donation of money, property or
anything of value, or the pledge of a future donation of money, property or
anything of value, or the selling or offering for sale of any property, real or
personal, tangible or intangible, whether of value or not, including, but not
limited to, goods and/or services, books, pamphlets, tickets, publications or
subscriptions to publications. A solicitation is complete when the solicitation
is communicated to any individual then located within the corporate limits of
the city.
TRANSIENT VENDOR: A person who, within the city, engages in the temporary
business of exhibiting, delivering, selling or offering for sale any goods or
exhibiting brochures, sales literature or price lists for the purpose of taking
orders for the sale of goods and who has no fixed place of business within the
city or county that is used, occupied, hired, rented or leased for a period of
at least one month for the purpose of operating or conducting such business
thereon. (2016 Code)
3-1-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Before any person engages in the occupation of a peddler, itinerant
merchant or transient vendor within the city, such person shall first obtain
from the city secretary a permit to engage in such occupation. A separate
permit and application shall be required for each person who engages in the
activities defined in section
3-1-1 of this chapter, as that of "peddler", "itinerant merchant" and/or
"transient vendor", including each employee, agent or consignee who engages in
such activity.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply to any of the following:
      1.   Commercial travelers;
      2.   Sales or exhibits at fairs, rodeos, conventions or events sponsored
by one or more city civic organization, school, church or the chamber of
commerce; or
      3.   Charitable solicitations.
However, this chapter does apply to transient vendors, itinerant merchants and
peddlers involved in interstate commerce. (2016 Code)
3-1-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE; CONDITIONS:
   A.   An application for a permit required by this chapter shall be made in
person by the persons requesting such permit upon forms available in the office
of the city secretary. Such application form shall provide a space for the
following information which must be furnished by the applicant:
      1.   The name, current and former residence and business addresses,
current residence and business telephone numbers, and occupation of applicant;
if applicable, the local address and telephone number where the applicant may
be reached.
      2.   A valid driver's license number, expiration date and the state
issuing it.
      3.   A physical description of the applicant which includes race, sex,
height, weight, and hair and eye color.
      4.   Two (2) copies of a driver's license or ID card of the applicant's.
One photograph shall be kept with the application and one photograph shall be
attached to the permit.
      5.   A valid state identification card. Only nondrivers may submit other
positive identification issued to the applicant by a governmental agency and
the state issuing it.
      6.   A description of the goods to be sold, including brand name, if any.
If the goods are to be shipped, the name, address and telephone number of the
manufacturing location and/or shipping location.
      7.   The address of the location from which such goods shall be displayed
to the public or offered for sale or a statement that the applicant will travel
from door to door for the purpose of exhibiting or offering goods for sale.
      8.   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the property
at such location.
      9.   If the goods to be sold are transported in or displayed from a
vehicle, the vehicle owner's name, address and telephone number and the
vehicle's make, model, color, description, identification number and license
number.
      10.   A statement that the applicant has not been convicted within the
last ten (10) years of an offense:
         a.   Involving narcotics, dangerous drugs or crimes with dangerous
weapons;
         b.   Involving the use of force and violence upon the person of
another when the offense is designated as a felony in the state of conviction
or this state;
         c.   Of fraud, misrepresentation, embezzlement, forgery or theft when
such offense is designated as a felony in the state of conviction or this
state; or
         d.   In a court of proper jurisdiction of violating this chapter at
any time.
      11.   Such other information as may be required to complete an
investigation as to the fitness of the applicant to conduct such business
operation.
   B.   Each person making application for a permit required pursuant to this
chapter shall swear or affirm that the information given on the application
form is true and correct.
   C.   If the applicant proposes to display goods to the public or to offer
such goods for sale from a designated location, the application form shall be
accompanied by a written permit signed by the owner or the duly authorized
agent of the owner of the property at the location from which the applicant
proposes to display or to offer for sale any goods. Such permit shall state
that said owner consents that the applicant may use and occupy such property
for the purpose of selling or offering for sale such goods.
   D.   If state law requires that sales tax must be paid upon the purchase of
such goods and/or services as the applicant proposes to offer for sale, the
application for permit shall be accompanied by a valid sales tax permit issued
by the office of the comptroller of public accounts of the state.
   E.   Each application shall bear the signature of the city secretary
indicating that applicant's proposed use of property complies with the
occupancy requirements of the city building code or that such requirement is
inapplicable because the applicant will be authorized by the permit only to
travel from door to door.
   F.   Each applicant who proposes to sell or offer for sale goods consisting
of any raw, cooked or processed edible substance, ice, beverage or ingredient
used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human consumption
shall secure on the application form for permit under this chapter the
signature of the public health officer of the city and/or county indicating
that such goods meet minimum food standards of the state.
   G.   Each application for a permit shall be approved by the chief of police
or mayor and city secretary before such permit is granted. The chief of police
shall have a reasonable time to conduct an investigation of an applicant for
such permit, but such an investigation shall not be longer than five (5)
business days. After inspection or investigation, the chief of police shall
either approve or disapprove the application for permit and, if disapproved,
shall give the applicant, upon request, a written statement setting forth the
reasons for such disapproval and notifying the applicant of his right to
appeal.
   H.   A permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter is issued
with the express provision that the permit holder shall not make any false or
fraudulent representation as to the goods and/or services to be sold or his
authority to sell such goods and/or services or his identity. (2016 Code)
3-1-4: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The city secretary or his designated representative may deny or revoke a permit
for a peddler, itinerant merchant, transient vendor, solicitor, etc., for any
of the following reasons:
   A.   The applicant does not present a valid state driver's license or, if
allowed, other positive identification by a governmental agency;
   B.   The applicant does not complete the application form and procedure;
   C.   The applicant or the proposed activity of the applicant does not comply
with applicable city ordinances and codes, including building codes and health
codes, or county or state health laws;
   D.   The applicant makes false or fraudulent statements on the application
form;
   E.   The applicant or permit holder is found, after investigation by the
chief of police, to be misrepresenting or making false statements in regard to
his authority to sell such goods;
   F.   Within the last ten (10) years, the applicant or permit holder has been
convicted of an offense involving narcotics, dangerous drugs or crimes with
dangerous weapons;
   G.   Within the last ten (10) years, the applicant or permit holder has been
convicted of an offense involving the use of force and violence upon the person
of another when the offense is designated as a felony in the state of
conviction or this state;
   H.   Within the last ten (10) years, the applicant or permit holder has been
convicted of an offense of fraud, misrepresentation, embezzlement, forgery or
theft when such offense is designated a felony in the state of conviction or
this state;
   I.   Within the last ten (10) years, the applicant or permit holder has been
convicted in a court of proper jurisdiction of violating this chapter at any
time; or
   J.   Upon recommendation from the chief of police that the permit be revoked
because the conduct of the permit holder or the manner in which the permit
holder is conducting his business operation endangers the health or safety of a
citizen of the city or a visitor within the city. (2016 Code)
3-1-5: CONTENTS OF PERMIT:
A permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall contain the
following:
   A.   The name of the applicant and his address;
   B.   A physical description of the applicant;
   C.   A photographic likeness furnished with the application; can be a copy
of driver's license or ID card;
   D.   The date the permit was issued and the date it expires with the
signature of the city secretary;
   E.   The location from which such person is permitted to conduct the
business operation authorized by such permit; and
   F.   The fact that the permit holder is a peddler who is authorized to go
from door to door of residences, offices or places of business to display,
sell, offer for sale or take orders for the sale of goods and/or services or to
exhibit brochures, sales literature or price lists of goods and/or services.
(2016 Code)
3-1-6: PERMIT FEE AND TERM:
   A.   For every application, there will be an investigation charge of twenty
five dollars ($25.00), and this is a nonrefundable fee.
   B.   Any person who is required to obtain a permit by the provisions of this
chapter may apply for a thirty (30) day permit, and when said is issued to any
such person, the applicant shall pay to the city secretary a permit fee of ten
dollars ($10.00) per month. All such fees shall be used to defray part of the
expense of administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   C.   No permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be issued
for a longer period than twelve (12) months. (2016 Code)
3-1-7: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prior to the issuance of any permit under the provisions of this
chapter, the person making application therefor shall secure and furnish a
surety bond in the penal sum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00), executed by
such person as principal and a corporate surety authorized to transact business
in the state who has appointed a resident agent for the purpose of notice and
service of process with a permanent location and mailing address within the
county.
   B.   The applicant may post a cash bond in lieu of a surety bond but under
the same terms. A cash bond shall be held by the city in a noninterest bearing
escrow account used only for such cash bonds.
   C.   A company may post a blanket surety bond of three thousand dollars
($3,000.00) for all of its employees; however, after a significant complaint or
multiple complaints against the company or its employees are received by the
city, the city council, in its sole discretion, may raise the amount and terms
of the bond as a prerequisite for the continued validity of any permits already
issued or to be issued to any company employee.
   D.   Upon the breach of the principal's obligation on such bond, the surety
thereon shall be liable to any obligee thereon for damages, court costs and
attorney fees not to exceed the face amount of the bond caused by or arising
from any act or omission of the principal that constitutes a violation of any
ordinance of the city or of the Texas deceptive trade practices-consumer
protection act 1 , as now or hereafter amended, in connection with goods and/or
services sold, offered, exhibited or delivered by the principal, or any
employee, agent or consignee of the principal.
   E.   The obligation of the surety shall continue for a period of two (2)
years from the date of sale or delivery of such goods and/or services,
whichever is later, and as long thereafter as required to bring to a final
conclusion any litigation pending at the expiration of the two (2) year period
instituted by an obligee on the bond for a claim under the Texas deceptive
trade practices act, or by the district attorney of the county or the attorney
general of the state for violation of the Texas deceptive trade practices act
in connection with such sale or delivery of goods and/or services by the
principal.
   F.   Such surety bond shall be verified and shall thereafter be filed with
the city secretary.
   G.   Bond requirement waived for approved application of current city
residences. (2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Business And Commerce Code § 17.41 et seq.
3-1-8: NONASSIGNMENT OF PERMIT:
A permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall not be
assignable and shall not authorize more than one person to engage in the
occupation of peddler, itinerant merchant, transient vendor, or solicitor,
etc., within the city. (2016 Code)
3-1-9: DISPLAY OF PERMIT AND INFORMATION:
   A.   Any person issued a permit pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
must exhibit the permit.
   B.   Any person required to obtain a permit under the provisions of this
chapter who, for the purposes of selling or offering for sale or soliciting
orders for the sale of goods, hires, rents, leases or occupies any room or
space in any building, structure, enclosure, vacant lot, parking lot or any
other property of whatever kind or character shall display at all times during
which such person is doing business on such premises, a sign in two inch (2")
letters and visible to the public setting out the place where any purchaser can
obtain service for the goods offered for sale on such premises and specifying
the type and duration of any warranties made on such goods and the address
where any purchaser may make a claim for breach thereof. (2016 Code)
3-1-10: PLACES AND HOURS OF SOLICITATIONS:
All solicitations to private residences, including, but not limited to, homes,
duplexes, mobile homes, rooming houses and apartments, shall occur between the
hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., unless
otherwise posted by the private property owner or by someone with apparent
authority to act for the owner. This section does not apply where the solicitor
is on the property by express prior invitation of the person residing on the
premises. (2016 Code)
3-1-11: USE OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   No person shall have or maintain in a stationary location any truck,
trailer, booth or any other kind of structure on any public street or alley in
the city for the purpose of selling, exhibiting or soliciting orders for any
goods, wares or merchandise, or cold drinks, hot drinks or food, or for the
purpose of any kind of exhibit.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any goods
on the sidewalks of the city unless such goods are offered for sale or sold by
a person owning, occupying or controlling the premises adjoining or adjacent to
the sidewalk, or with permission in writing from such, and then such goods
shall be exposed and sold in the usual course of trade in accordance with all
ordinances of the city. (2016 Code)
3-1-12: TRESPASSES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the holder of any permit issued under this
chapter to enter upon the land or premises of another after receiving,
immediately before such entry, notice from the owner, resident, occupant or
adult person acting for such person exercising possession that such entry is
forbidden. A sign on the premises stating approximately "No Solicitors,
Commercial Or Charitable" shall constitute notice.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any such permit holder to remain on the
premises of another after receiving notice from the owner, resident, occupant
or adult person acting for such person exercising possession, to depart such
premises.
   C.   A conviction for violation of this section shall result in the
automatic revocation of such convicted person's peddler and solicitor permit.
(2016 Code)
3-1-13: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
The police department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter. (2016 Code)
3-1-14: APPEALS:
   A.   If the applicant for a permit under this chapter or the holder of such
a permit is dissatisfied with any holding or finding of the city secretary or
the chief of police, he shall have the right to appeal to the mayor or city
council by filing a written notice of such appeal with the city secretary
within ten (10) days from the decision by the city secretary or chief of
police.
   B.   Upon the filing of such notice of appeal, the application for the
permit and all papers possessed by the city secretary in connection with such
application and such permit may be delivered to the city council, and such
matters as may be in controversy shall be heard by the council at its next
regular meeting after the filing of the notice of appeal. The city council
shall have the same powers and authority at such hearing on such appeal as is
vested in the city secretary by this chapter. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: State Regulations Adopted
3-2-2: Permit Requirements
3-2-3: Location Restrictions
3-2-4: Sale, Possession And Consumption On City Property
3-2-5: Penalty
3-2-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The provisions contained in the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code, so far as same
are applicable to the city, and regulating the sale of beer and wine, are
hereby adopted and shall be applicable to the city in regulating the sale of
beer and wine in the city limits. (Ord. 101209-2, 10-12-2009)
3-2-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, brew, distill, sell or
distribute any wine, beer, liquor or other alcoholic beverage within the city,
or to engage in any other activity which a license or permit is required by the
Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code, without first obtaining a permit to do so from
the city. The biennial fee for such a permit shall be in the amount equal to
one-half (1/2) the fee charged by the state for a license or permit to engage
in a similar activity. Upon payment of the applicable fee to the city secretary
and exhibition to the secretary of a permit or license duly issued by the state
to the applicant or a person paying such fee, the city secretary shall, in the
name of the city, issue and deliver to such an applicant a permit to engage in
business in the city of the character described in and authorized by the permit
or license from the state held by such applicant, and the permit so issued in
the name of the person described in the permit or license from the state and
shall remain in force only so long as such permit or license from the state
remains in force. (Ord. 101209-2, 10-12-2009)
3-2-3: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Restrictions Established:
      1.   The sale of alcoholic beverages in the city by a dealer is
prohibited if the dealer's place of business is within:
         a.   Three hundred feet (300') of a church, public or private school,
or public hospital;
         b.   One thousand feet (1,000') of a public school, if the city
council receives a request from the board of trustees of the school district
under the Texas Education Code section 38.007; or
         c.   One thousand feet (1,000') of a private school if the city
council receives a request from the governing body of the private school.
      2.   The measurement of the distance between the place of business where
alcoholic beverages are sold and the church or public hospital shall be along
the property lines of the street fronts and from front door to front door, and
in direct line across intersections. The measurement of the distance between
the place of business where alcoholic beverages are sold and the public or
private school shall be:
         a.   In a direct line from the property line of the public or private
school to the property line of the place of business, and in a direct line
across intersections; or
         b.   If the permit or license holder is located on or above the fifth
story of a multistory building, in a direct line from the property line of the
public or private school to the property line of the place of business, in a
direct line across intersections, and vertically up the building at the
property line to the base of the floor on which the permit or license holder is
located. (2016 Code)
   B.   Variances: The city council may allow variances to this section if that
body determines that enforcement of the regulation in a particular instance is
not in the best interest of the public, constitutes waste or inefficient use of
land or other resources, creates an undue hardship on an applicant for a
license or permit, does not serve its intended purpose, is not effective or
necessary, or for any other reason the council, after consideration of the
health, safety, and welfare of the public and the equities of the situation,
determines is in the best interest of the community. (Ord. 101209-2, 10-12-
2009; amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-4: SALE, POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION ON CITY PROPERTY:
   A.   Regulations And Restrictions:
      1.   City Lakes: No alcoholic beverages will be allowed at any city owned
lakes.
      2.   Community Civic Center: Alcohol sales will be permitted inside the
armory (community civic center) only after obtaining a permit ($10.00 permit
fee) from the city secretary and providing the city with a copy of the license
issued by the Texas alcoholic beverage commission, known as TABC.
      3.   Glass Containers Prohibited: On all city owned property, alcohol
must be in nonglass containers only. It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess and consume alcohol from any glass container on any city property
within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 101209-2, 10-12-2009; amd. 2016
Code)
   B.   Reservation Requirements:
      1.   Application For Reservation: The application for a reservation for
any city property where the sale, serving, delivery, and consumption of alcohol
is planned shall be made in the form described by the city council. The
reservation application for an event where the sponsor proposes the sale,
serving, delivery and consumption of alcoholic beverages shall reflect TABC
approval and shall be made not later than ten (10) days prior to the date
requested.
      2.   Conditions Of Reservation: The conditions of said reservation shall
include, but not be limited to:
         a.   Specific dates and times that the reservation is valid not to
exceed three (3) consecutive days.
         b.   The sale, serving, and delivery of the alcoholic beverages shall
be from a bulk delivery service, and biodegradable paper cups or aluminum cans
shall be used.
         c.   Sale, service and delivery shutdown time shall be no later than
one hour before the scheduled closing of the event.
         d.   Proof of no delinquent taxes in the county or the city shall be
provided.
      3.   Approval Of Reservation: Following the review of the reservation
application and TABC approval, the city secretary shall cause the approval of
the reservation. (Ord. 101209-2, 10-12-2009)
3-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 101209-2,
10-12-2009)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definition
4-1-2: Nuisances Enumerated
4-1-3: Nuisances Prohibited
4-1-4: Hearing Prior To Abatement By City
4-1-5: Abatement By City; Costs
4-1-6: Lien Provisions
4-1-7: Nonliability Of City
4-1-8: Violation; Penalty
4-1-9: No Exceptions
4-1-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this chapter, the term "nuisance" is defined to mean any
condition or use of premises or building exteriors which is detrimental to the
property of others or which causes or tends to cause substantial diminution in
the value of the other property in the neighborhood in which such premises is
located. A "nuisance" is a condition or thing to be or act, or omission, that
either:
   A.   Injures or endangers the comfort, health, or safety of others; or
   B.   Offends decency; or
   C.   Is offensive to the senses; or
   D.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for its intended use any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, creek, waterway, ditch, or drainage; or
   E.   In any way unreasonably renders other persons insecure in life or the
use of property; or
   F.   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others. (1988
Code §
4-3-1)
4-1-2: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
Maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting to be or remain
on any public or private property any of the following items, conditions or
actions are hereby declared to be and constitute nuisances; provided, however,
this list is not deemed conclusive, limiting, or restrictive:
   A.   Secondhand, used, or discarded furniture, other than furniture designed
for outside use and for commercial trade or sale.
   B.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as automobiles
and equipment parts, lawn mowers, fixtures, and appliances.
   C.   Items of salvage such as scrap metals, rags, papers, bottles, cans, and
similar items.
   D.   Noxious weeds or other vegetation.
   E.   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk or other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber, or other things.
   F.   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes, and
other vermin.
   G.   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located.
   H.   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches.
   I.   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death.
   J.   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal, or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, chemicals, industrial wastes, petroleum
products, or other substances.
   K.   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground.
   L.   Plants, trees, brush, or artificial structures which would impede the
normal flow of water on, over, within or across streams, creeks, drainage
ditches or other waterways, natural or manmade.
   M.   Permitting or allowing any weeds, filth, or rubbish of any kind to
remain on any sidewalk in front or at the side of any premises, to the curb
line, in front or at the side of any premises, or upon any alley that may be at
the rear or the side of any lots.
   N.   Permitting, allowing, constructing, or maintaining a fence, walk, tree,
hedge, structure, vehicle, or any other obstruction over, on, or across any
public property, way, alley, street, sidewalk, or park.
   O.   Posting bills, signs, fliers, notices, or advertisements on any utility
pole on public property. (1988 Code §
4-3-2)
4-1-3: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain or allow the
creating or maintenance of a nuisance. (1988 Code §
4-3-3)
4-1-4: HEARING PRIOR TO ABATEMENT BY CITY:
A public hearing must be held prior to the abatement of the nuisance by the
city when such a hearing is requested by the owner or occupant of the property
upon which such nuisance exists or by the person causing or maintaining the
nuisance. The hearing shall be held before the judge of the municipal court.
The judge of the municipal court shall determine at the hearing whether or not
a nuisance exists. If a nuisance is found to exist, the judge shall order the
abatement of the nuisance. Any ruling or order by the judge of the municipal
court at this hearing shall become final unless appealed within ten (10) days
to the municipal court. (1988 Code §
4-3-4; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1-5: ABATEMENT BY CITY; COSTS:
Within ten (10) days after notice of abatement to the owner or occupant of the
property to do so, in writing, or by letter addressed to such owner or occupant
at his post office box address, or within ten (10) days after notice by
publishing once in the official city newspaper, the mayor or his designated
representative may proceed to abate such nuisance and shall prepare a statement
of costs incurred in the abatement thereof. The expense of such procedure and
the civil penalty shall be charged upon the owner and shall become a valid and
enforceable personal obligation of the owner, tenant, or person in control of
such premises which may be recovered by the city in a suit brought for that
purpose. (1988 Code §
4-3-5; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1-6: LIEN PROVISIONS:
The mayor shall file a statement with the county clerk of expenses incurred
under this chapter, giving the amount of such expenses and the date on which
said work was done or improvements made; and the city shall have the priority
lien on such lot or lots or real estate upon which said work was done or
improvements thereon made to secure the expenditures so made, in accordance
with the provisions of Texas Health And Safety Code section 342.001 et seq.,
which said lien shall be second only to tax liens and liens for street
improvements; and said amount shall bear interest at the maximum amount allowed
by law from the date said statement was filed. It is further provided, that for
any such expenditures and interest, as aforesaid, suit may be instituted and
recovery and foreclosure of said lien may be had in the name of the city; and
the statement of expenses so made, as aforesaid, or a certified copy thereof,
shall be prima facie proof of the amount expended for such work or
improvements. (1988 Code §
4-3-6)
4-1-7: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
Neither the city or any other authorized agent acting under the terms of this
chapter shall be liable or have any liability by reason of orders issued or
work done in compliance within the terms of this chapter. (1988 Code §
4-3-7)
4-1-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), and each and
every day's violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. In case
the owner or occupant of any lot, lots, or premises under the provisions of
this chapter shall be a corporation and shall violate any provisions hereof,
the president, vice president, secretary and treasurer of such corporation
shall also be severally liable for the penalties herein provided. (1988 Code §
4-3-8; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1-9: NO EXCEPTIONS:
No exception to this chapter shall be made for any condition which existed at
the effective date hereof. (1988 Code § 4-3-9)
ARTICLE A.  ABANDONED PERSONALTY
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Nuisance Declared; Impoundment
4-1A-2: Redemption Of Impounded Property
4-1A-3: Failure To Redeem; Public Sale
4-1A-4: Property Not Sold
4-1A-5: Records And Costs
4-1A-6: Lien Provisions
4-1A-7: Exemptions
4-1A-1: NUISANCE DECLARED; IMPOUNDMENT:
Any vehicle or other property or obstruction placed, left standing, parked,
erected or lying in violation of any ordinance of the city or left unattended
for more than ten (10) continuous days in or on any public street, alley,
sidewalk, park or other public place of the city is declared to be a nuisance,
and any such property when so found shall be removed summarily by any local law
enforcement personnel and taken to the city pound and shall be kept there until
redeemed or sold as herein provided. (1988 Code § 4-3A-1)
4-1A-2: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED PROPERTY:
The owner or any person legally entitled to possession of such impounded
personal property may redeem the same as follows:
   A.   Before Sale: By paying to the city secretary the impounding fee and any
other actual expenses incurred by the city in impounding and keeping the
impounded property, as determined by the city secretary. (1988 Code § 4-3A-2)
   B.   After Sale: By paying to the buyer at the auction sale one and one-
third (11/3) the amount paid by him for such personal property and any
reasonable expenses incurred by him for keeping same; provided, that the said
property must be redeemed from the auction buyer within thirty (30) days after
the date of the auction sale, excluding the date of sale, otherwise title to
said property shall become absolute in the auction buyer. (1988 Code § 4-3A-2;
amd. 2016 Code)
4-1A-3: FAILURE TO REDEEM; PUBLIC SALE:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   When any personal property, other than motor vehicles, is not
redeemed within sixty (60) days after being impounded, and when any motor
vehicle is not redeemed after compliance by the city secretary with the
provisions of subsection C of this section, the mayor shall sell the same at
public auction to satisfy the lien of the city.
      2.   When any impounded property, including motor vehicles, is not
redeemed by the date and time designated in the notice of sale, the mayor shall
sell such property at public auction, and as city auctioneer, shall execute a
bill of sale of said property to the purchaser thereof; provided, that he shall
not execute and deliver any but a conditional bill of sale unless and until the
title of said buyer has become absolute by an expiration of thirty (30) days'
time, exclusive of the date of sale, without being redeemed by the owner of the
impounded property. (1988 Code § 4-3A-3)
   B.   Procedure For Property Other Than Motor Vehicle: Before selling such
personal property, other than motor vehicles, the mayor shall post two (2)
notices thereof, one at the courthouse door of Coleman County, and one at the
entrance of the city hall, and shall cause a copy thereof to be published in
the official city newspaper once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks; the date
of the first publication to be at least fourteen (14) days prior to the day of
the auction sale. The notice of sale shall describe the impounded property,
state that the same is unredeemed, state that the same will be sold at public
auction, designate the place of sale and state a time and date of sale which
shall not be less than fourteen (14) days from the date of posting such notices
as herein required.
   C.   Procedure For Motor Vehicle:
      1.   When any motor vehicle has not been redeemed within thirty (30) days
from the date of its impounding, it shall be the duty of the city secretary to
submit to the Texas department of transportation, and similar agency of the
proper state when the vehicle is from another state, all information in his
possession concerning said vehicle and to request that said department supply
to him all information the records of the department contain on said vehicle.
Immediately upon receipt of such information from said department, the city
secretary shall notify the owner and lienholders as shown by the records of
said department by registered or certified mail with return receipt requested
that said vehicle has been impounded and of the provisions of this article in
regard to redemption and sale of impounded property.
      2.   In the event a motor vehicle has not been redeemed within fifteen
(15) days from receipt of the return receipt or notice of nondelivery of said
registered or certified mail, the city secretary shall prepare a notice of sale
of such vehicle, in the manner described in subsection B of this section, shall
send a copy of said notice to the owner and lienholders as shown by the records
of said department of transportation by registered or certified mail and shall
post and advertise said notices in the manner required in subsection B of this
section. Notice by registered or certified mail to the address shown on the
records of the department of transportation shall constitute notice of the
pending sale to such owner and lienholders. (1988 Code § 4-3A-3; amd. 2016
Code)
      3.   When the city secretary is unable to ascertain the names of the
owner and lienholders, and the motor vehicle has not been redeemed within forty
five (45) days from its impounding, no notice of sale other than posting and
advertising as herein prescribed shall be required.
   D.   Proceeds Of Sale:
      1.   Disposition Of Proceeds: After deducting the impounding fee and all
other actual expenses incurred by the city in impounding, storing and selling
of the property, as determined by the city secretary, not to exceed a
reasonable amount for each impounded article, he shall pay the balance of the
proceeds of sale, if any, to the owner of the property. If the owner fails to
call for such proceeds, they shall be paid into the city treasury.
      2.   Proceeds To Owner: Within six (6) months after such auction sale,
the owner may apply in writing to the city secretary, and upon satisfactory
proof of ownership, shall be entitled to receive the amount of the proceeds
delivered to the city treasury. (1988 Code § 4-3A-3)
4-1A-4: PROPERTY NOT SOLD:
Impounded property which is offered for sale at public auction in accordance
with the procedures herein prescribed and upon which no person bids, shall
thereafter be sold or otherwise disposed of as junk. Money received for junk
property shall be disposed of in the same manner as proceeds from an auction
sale under this article. (1988 Code § 4-3A-4)
4-1A-5: RECORDS AND COSTS:
   A.   Records: The city secretary shall keep a record book which shall
contain the description of all property impounded, the date and time of such
impounding, the date notices of sale were posted and advertised and mailed to
owners and lienholders, the return of receipts of registered notices, the date
of the sale at auction, the amount realized for each article at such sale, the
names and addresses of the owner and lienholders, if known, the name and
address of the auction buyer, and any such other information as he may deem
necessary. (1988 Code § 4-3A-5)
   B.   Costs: All applicable costs of receipts paid the city for expenses
caused by impoundment and sale of goods advertising shall be charged under this
article and shall be paid into the city treasury. (1988 Code § 4-3A-5; amd.
2016 Code)
4-1A-6: LIEN PROVISIONS:
The city shall have a lien on such impounded personal property for all costs
incurred in impounding, storing and advertising such property, and such lien
shall be prior and superior to all other liens of every kind, save and except
liens for ad valorem taxes, and the city may retain possession thereof until
all costs are paid and may sell the same as herein provided. (1988 Code § 4-3A-
6)
4-1A-7: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing herein shall apply to, alter or affect the provisions of any ordinance
regulating the impounding and sale of livestock, fowl and dogs as heretofore or
hereinafter enacted by the city council. (1988 Code § 4-3A-7)
ARTICLE B.  TRASH, WEEDS AND OTHER WASTES
SECTION:
4-1B-1: Definitions
4-1B-2: Height Of Grass And Weeds; Accumulation Of Rubbish
4-1B-3: Unlawful Deposits
4-1B-4: Dumping Trash And Refuse
4-1B-5: Accumulation Of Trash, Height Of Vegetation In Alleys
4-1B-6: Spilling Waste From Vehicles
4-1B-7: Garbage And Refuse Collection Required
4-1B-8: Removal Costs
4-1B-9: Violation; Penalty
4-1B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
BRUSH: Includes leaves, lawn trimmings, grass cuttings, tree trimmings, hedge
trimmings, weeds, flower stalks, and trees and tree limbs not to exceed three
inches (3") in diameter or four feet (4') in length (or so cut).
LARGE APPLIANCES AND TREES: Includes all refrigerators, stoves, water heaters,
trees, tree limbs and other items that are too large or bulky to be collected
with normal collection equipment.
REFUSE: Includes all wastes resulting from domestic, commercial or industrial
operations incident to urban life except sewage but including garbage, brush
and trash.
TRASH: Includes all refuse other than garbage, brush and large appliances and
trees, including household trash (discarded clothing, toys, paper, etc.) and
yard trash (grass clippings, small shrub and tree trimmings, leaves, etc.).
(Ord. 021201, 2-12-2001)
4-1B-2: HEIGHT OF GRASS AND WEEDS; ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH:
   A.   Height Of Grass And Weeds:
      1.   Private Property:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether owner, agent,
occupant, or anyone having supervision or control of any lot, tract, parcel of
land, or portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or unimproved,
within the city to suffer or permit grass, weeds, or any plant that is not
cultivated to grow to a greater height than twelve inches (12") on an average
or to grow in rank profusion upon said premises.
         b.   With respect to lots, tracts or parcels of land of two (2) or
more acres under single ownership, the provisions of this subsection Al shall
not be applicable to the area in excess of one hundred feet (100') from any
open public street or way, or to the area in excess of one hundred feet (100')
from any adjacent property under different ownership on which habitable
dwellings are located.
      2.   Public Ways: It shall be unlawful for any person, whether owner,
agent, occupant or anyone having supervision or control of any lot, tract,
parcel of land or portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or
unimproved, within the city, to suffer or permit grass, weeds, or any plant
that is not cultivated to grow in rank profusion, or otherwise, in, along, upon
or across the sidewalk or street adjacent to same in the area between the
property line and the curb line or within the area ten feet (10') beyond the
property line to a height greater than twelve inches (12") on average.
   B.   Accumulation Of Rubbish Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person, whether owner, agent, occupant or anyone having supervision or control
of any lot, tract, parcel of land or portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied,
improved or unimproved, within the city, to suffer or permit any rubbish and
brush and any and all other objectionable, unsightly or unsanitary matter of
whatever nature to accumulate or to be present upon any such lot, tract or
parcel of land.
   C.   Duty To Remove: It shall be the duty of any person, whether owner,
agent, occupant or anyone having supervision or control of any lot, tract,
parcel of land or portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or
unimproved, within the city, to cut, or cause to be cut, and remove, or cause
to be removed, if necessary, to comply with subsections A and B of this
section, all such grass, weeds, plants, rubbish and brush and any or all of the
objectionable, unsightly or unsanitary matter of whatever nature as often as
may be necessary to comply with such provisions.
   D.   Removal By City; Costs:
      1.   Notice To Remove; Removal By City: In the event the owner of any
lot, tract, parcel of land or portion thereof situated within the city shall
fail to comply with subsection C of this section, the city may notify such
owner by letter addressed thereto at his post office address, or by the
publication, as many as two (2) times within ten (10) consecutive days, in the
official newspaper, if personal service may not be had as aforesaid, or the
owner's address is not known, of said owner's failure to comply with subsection
C of this section; and at the expiration of ten (10) days after notification,
the city may enter upon such premises and may do such work as necessary or
cause the same to be done in order that the premises will comply with all
requirements set forth in subsection C of this section.
      2.   Costs To Owner: A statement of the cost incurred by the city to
abate such condition shall be mailed to the owner of said premises, which
statement shall be paid within thirty (30) days of the date of mailing thereof.
(Ord. 021201, 2-12-2001)
      3.   Lien Provisions: In the event that the said statement has not been
paid within such period, the mayor may file a statement with the county clerk
of the expenses incurred to abate such conditions on said premises; and the
city shall have a privileged lien on any lot, tract, or parcel of land upon
which such expense is incurred second only to tax liens and liens for street
improvements, together with interest at the maximum amount allowed by law from
the date such payment is due. For any such expenditure and interest as
aforesaid, suit may be instituted and recovery and foreclosure had in the name
of the city; and the statement so made as aforesaid or a copy thereof shall be
prima facie proof of the amount expended in any such work performed by the
city. (Ord. 021201, 2-12-2001; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1B-3: UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place, deposit or
throw, or permit or cause to be placed, deposited or thrown, any garbage,
brush, loose waste or refuse of any kind on public or private property outside
any house, building, flat or tenement in the city (or permit the same to remain
thereon) unless the same has been deposited in accordance with the provisions
of this article. The following acts, among others, are declared to be unlawful
and in violation of this section, but such enumeration shall not be deemed
exclusive:
   A.   The throwing, placing, dumping, or depositing of any lawn trimmings,
hedge trimmings, or any other cuttings, or trimmings of weeds, flowers or other
vegetation on lots, vacant or occupied, driveways, or any other private
property.
   B.   The throwing, placing, dumping, or depositing of any lawn trimmings,
hedge trimmings, or any other cuttings, or trimmings of weeds, flowers or other
vegetation in any gutter, street, sidewalk, parkway, driveway, curb, alley, or
any other public property of the city.
   C.   The throwing, placing, dumping, or depositing of any garbage, refuse,
or animal or vegetable waste matter of any kind on or in any gutter, street,
sidewalk, parkway, driveway, curb, alley or any other public property of the
city.
   D.   To cause or permit to be or remain in or upon any premises, private or
public, any animal, vegetable or mineral matters of any composition, or residue
thereof, which is an unsanitary condition or injurious to the public health;
and after any such matter has remained upon premises, public or private, for
more than seven (7) days, it will be presumed that the same is an unsanitary
condition and injurious to public health.
   E.   The throwing, placing, dumping, or depositing of any garbage, refuse,
or animal or vegetable waste matter of any kind on or in any container other
than those owned by or assigned to that person. (Ord. 021201, 2-12-2001)
4-1B-4: DUMPING TRASH AND REFUSE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump any trash or refuse of any
type on any vacant property or along any street or road within the city limits.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump any trash or refuse of any
kind in any public street, alley or way of the city. (Ord. 021201, 2-12-2001)
4-1B-5: ACCUMULATION OF TRASH, HEIGHT OF VEGETATION IN ALLEYS:
It shall be unlawful for both the owner and for the tenant of any property in
the city abutting upon a public alleyway to permit the accumulation of any
trash or refuse of any kind therein upon that part thereof from his property
line to the center thereof or to permit any shrubbery, brush, weeds, grasses or
other vegetation whatsoever to grow therein to the said centerline to a height
greater than five inches (5"). Every such tenant and owner is required to keep
such alley cleaned up and in a passable, sightly and sanitary condition or
cause the same to be done at all times. (Ord. 021201, 2-12-2001)
4-1B-6: SPILLING WASTE FROM VEHICLES:
Persons hauling waste of any nature on or across the public streets of the city
shall not allow any of said waste to blow off the transporting vehicle onto the
public streets or alleys. Failure to stop and pick up any waste that falls onto
the streets or alleys shall constitute a violation of this code. (Ord. 021201,
2-12-2001)
4-1B-7: GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any resident of the city or person dwelling therein,
or proprietor or manager of commercial and residential establishments to refuse
to avail themselves of the garbage and refuse collection of the city itself or
through its contractor and to refuse to pay the charges for said services
established by the city council. (Ord. 021201, 2-12-2001)
4-1B-8: REMOVAL COSTS:
The charges fixed for the removal and disposal of all garbage, brush, trash,
refuse or other waste materials shall be levied against all owners, occupants,
tenants or lessees using or occupying any building, house, or structure
receiving such service. Since the proper and prompt removal of all garbage,
brush, trash, refuse matter and other waste materials is essential to the
preservation of the public health and safety, it is deemed necessary that this
charge be levied against every person, owner or occupant, tenant or lessee
using or occupying any premises and, thus, provide for a more even and
equitable distribution of the cost of this service to the citizenship enjoying
the benefits thereof. Where an apartment, house or other building is served
water through one meter, the person in whose name the water account stands
shall be responsible for the payment of the garbage fees for all persons in
such apartment or building who are subject to the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 021201, 2-12-2001)
4-1B-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for any one offense, and each such violation shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 021201, 2-12-2001)
ARTICLE C.  JUNKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-1C-1: Definitions
4-1C-2: Nuisance Declared And Prohibited; Exceptions
4-1C-3: Notice To Abate
4-1C-4: Hearing Prior To Abatement By City
4-1C-5: Impoundment Of Vehicle; Costs
4-1C-6: Authority To Enforce
4-1C-7: Nonliability Of City
4-1C-8: Violation; Penalty
4-1C-9: No Exceptions
4-1C-1: DEFINITIONS:
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: A passenger car or truck that is at least thirty five (35)
years old.
JUNKED VEHICLE: A motor vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed thereto a
valid Texas license plate or plates, or is wrecked, partially dismantled, or
remains inoperable for a continuous period of more than forty five (45) days
and the condition of which is inoperative and on a street, avenue or alleyway.
SIGHT BARRIER FENCE: A fence built of materials and constructed in such a way
that objects placed behind the fence cannot be seen from the opposite side of
the fence. Sight barrier fencing must meet these specifications and be approved
by the city director of public works.
SPECIAL INTEREST VEHICLE: A motor vehicle of any age that has not been altered
or modified from its original manufacturer's specifications and, because of its
historic interest, is being preserved. (1988 Code § 4-3C-1; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1C-2: NUISANCE DECLARED AND PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
The location or presence of any junked vehicle(s) on any lot, tract, parcel of
land or portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or unimproved, within
the city shall be deemed a public nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to maintain such a public nuisance or to permit or allow the same to
exist on his or her property or on the property of another; provided, that this
section shall not apply to a vehicle(s) or vehicle part(s) that is, in lawful
manner:
   A.   Completely enclosed within a building or screened from ordinary public
view by means of a sight barrier fence of appropriate height and construction,
rapidly growing trees, or shrubbery;
   B.   In an appropriate storage place;
   C.   Retained by the owner for antique or special interest collection
purposes rather than for salvage or for transportation, and stored in a manner
as described in subsection A of this section; or
   D.   Stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of the United
States who is on active duty assignment outside the continental and territorial
limits of the United States. (1988 Code § 4-3C-2)
4-1C-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
Whenever any public nuisance exists in the city in violation of this article,
the chief of police shall order the owner and the occupant, if any, of the
premises whereon such public nuisance exists to abate or remove the same. Such
order shall be in writing, shall state the nature of the public nuisance, and
state that it must be removed and abated within ten (10) days from the date of
notice. Such notice should further explain to the owner and/or occupant that
the request for a hearing contesting the abatement and/or removal of said
alleged nuisance must be delivered to the municipal court judge prior to the
expiration of ten (10) days from the receipt of said notice and/or order. Such
request must be in writing and delivered or mailed to the municipal court judge
of the city. The order of abatement shall be mailed, by certified or registered
mail, with five (5) days return requested, to the last known registered owner
of the junked vehicle, any lienholder of record, and to the owner or occupant
of the premises on which the public nuisance exists. If the post office address
of the last known registered owner of the motor vehicle is unknown, notice to
the last known registered owner may be placed on the vehicle, or if the last
known registered owner is physically located, the notice may be hand delivered.
If the notice is returned undelivered by the United States post office,
official action to abate said nuisance shall be continued to a date not less
than ten (10) days from the date of such return. (1988 Code § 4-3C-3)
4-1C-4: HEARING PRIOR TO ABATEMENT BY CITY:
If the municipal court judge of the city receives a timely written request for
a hearing to contest the order or notice of abatement received by the owner
and/or occupant of the premises whereon said public nuisance exists, such
hearing shall be held before the municipal court judge prior to the removal of
the vehicle or part thereof as a public nuisance. The judge of the municipal
court shall determine at the hearing whether or not a nuisance exists. If a
nuisance is found to exist, the judge shall order the abatement. Any ruling or
order by the judge of the municipal court at this hearing shall become final
unless appealed within ten (10) days to a court of proper jurisdiction. If the
municipal court judge orders abatement, the vehicle shall be removed, shall not
be made operable or reconstructed, and within five (5) days after the date of
removal, notice shall be given to the Texas department of transportation
identifying the vehicle or part thereof, to enable said department to cancel
the certificate of title to such vehicle pursuant to the certificate of title
act. (1988 Code § 4-3C-4; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1C-5: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLE; COSTS:
If the owner and/or occupant makes no request for a public hearing, fails,
neglects, or refuses to obey any order issued under the provisions of this
article, or if the premises is unoccupied, and the owner or his or her agents
cannot be served pursuant to section
4-1C-3 of this article, the chief of police shall abate such public nuisance
and shall defray the expenses thereof out of any monies in the city treasury
available for such purpose. The chief of police or his agent may remove and
store a junked vehicle. All expenses so incurred in the abatement of such
public nuisance shall be charged against the owner of the junked vehicle, and a
statement of costs incurred by the city to abate such public nuisance shall be
sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known registered
owner of the junked vehicle, and any lienholder of record. When mailed, the
said costs statement shall state that the amount due shall be paid within
thirty (30) days of such mailing. In the event that said costs statement is
returned undelivered, public notice of said costs statement shall be given and
said notice shall state that the amount due shall be paid within thirty (30)
days from the given notice. (1988 Code § 4-3C-5)
4-1C-6: AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE:
The chief of police may enter private property for the purposes specified in
this article to examine a vehicle or vehicle part, obtain information as to the
identity of the vehicle, and remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or
vehicle part that constitutes a nuisance. The municipal court may issue orders
necessary to enforce these procedures. (1988 Code § 4-3C-6; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1C-7: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
Neither the city nor any other authorized agent acting under the terms of this
article shall be liable or have any liability by reason of orders issued or
work done in compliance within the terms of this article. (1988 Code § 4-3C-7)
4-1C-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provisions of this article shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding two
hundred dollars ($200.00), and each and every day the violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. In case the owner or occupant under
the provisions of this article shall be a corporation and shall violate any
provisions hereof, the president, vice president, secretary and treasurer of
such corporation, or any manager, agent, or employee of such corporation shall
also be severally liable for the penalties herein provided. (1988 Code § 4-3C-
8)
4-1C-9: NO EXCEPTIONS:
No exception to this article shall be made for any condition which existed at
the effective date hereof. (1988 Code § 4-3C-9)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Prohibited Accumulations; Collection By City
4-2-2: Unlawful Deposits
4-2-1: PROHIBITED ACCUMULATIONS; COLLECTION BY CITY:
   A.   Accumulations Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person in the
city to deposit or cause to be deposited in front of, in the rear of, or along
the side of any building or premises owned or controlled by such person paper,
sweepings, bottles, cans, tires, lumber, bricks, scraps or rubbish of any kind
whatsoever without immediately removing the same. Any violation of this
subsection shall be punishable in any sum not exceeding two hundred dollars
($200.00).
   B.   Removal By City; Costs: If any person in the city shall deposit or
permit or cause to be deposited in front of or in the rear or along the side of
any premises owned by him or anywhere else off of his own premises or in any
sewer, gutter or ditch or in any alley, street, or sidewalk of the city any of
the items mentioned in subsection A of this section without immediately
removing the same, it shall be the duty of the city scavenger to remove the
same, and for such service, the city shall be allowed the remedies stated in
this chapter. (1988 Code §
4-4-1)
4-2-2: UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS:
   A.   All wastepaper, rags, cloth, cotton excelsior, straw, hay, manure,
boxes, barrels, refuse, debris and other decaying matter and materials lying
and remaining on the streets, avenues, sidewalks, alleys, lots, blocks and
premises of the city shall be and are hereby declared to be unsightly,
dangerous, fire hazards and a menace to the public health. On and after the
effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful to drop, throw and leave any of the
above named materials on the streets, avenues, sidewalks and alleys of the
city, and it shall likewise be unlawful to drop, throw and collect or permit
any or all of such materials to collect and remain on any lot, block or
premises.
   B.   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code §
4-4-4; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OUTDOOR BURNING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Adoption Of Texas Administrative Code
4-3-2: General Prohibition
4-3-3: Exceptions
4-3-4: Requirements For Authorization
4-3-5: General Requirements For Burning
4-3-6: Parallel Requirements
4-3-7: Penalty
4-3-1: ADOPTION OF TEXAS ADMINISTRATIVE CODE:
The city council of the city of Santa Anna, Texas, has determined that it is in
the best interest of the city of Santa Anna to adopt outdoor burning rules as
outlined in title 30 of the Texas administrative code sections 111.201 -
111.221. If a conflict occurs between title 30 of the Texas administrative code
sections 111.201 - 111.221, the Coleman County burn ban or this chapter, the
strictest of the three (3) codes shall prevail. (Ord. 050916, 5-9-2016)
4-3-2: GENERAL PROHIBITION:
No persons may cause, suffer, allow or permit any outdoor burning within the
city limits of the city of Santa Anna, except as provided by this chapter. The
burning of household trash, garbage of any form, or municipal solid waste is
prohibited within the city limits. It shall also be unlawful for any person to
light or have lighted any fire in any street, alley, thoroughfare or public
property with the exception of cooking receptacles located at the recreation
center (Old Amory) and municipal burning as provided in subsection 4-3-3D of
this chapter. No furniture, construction/demolition materials, chemical wastes,
heavy oils, asphaltic materials, potentially explosive materials, or any item
containing natural or synthetic rubber shall be burned. (Ord. 050916, 5-9-2016)
4-3-3: EXCEPTIONS:
Only fires, under the conditions described below will be permitted:
   A.   Fire Training: Outdoor burning shall be authorized for training of
firefighting personnel when requested in writing and authorized by the Texas
commission on environmental quality. A separate request will be required for
each training exercise.
   B.   Domestic Outdoor Fires: Fires are allowed out of doors for cooking,
warmth, recreational or ceremonial purposes. These fires should be built in a
fireproof container, such as a barbecue pit or chimenea, made of brick, stone,
metal or other fireproof material and in a manner to contain the fire and
prevent said fire or embers from escaping. All of the above allowed out of
doors fires must comply with section
4-3-2, "General Prohibition", of this chapter. Domestic outdoor fires do not
require a permit. Requirements of sections
4-3-4 and
4-3-5 of this chapter are not applicable.
   C.   Land Clearing: Burning of vegetation and/or brush in the clearing of
land for agricultural purposes or building new construction shall be allowed on
tracts two (2) acres or larger of land including an area zoned residential.
   D.   Municipal Burning: The city of Santa Anna may burn vegetation, brush
and/or trees causing detrimental public health and safety after a natural
disaster such as tornados, high winds or ice storms upon receiving site and
burn approval from the Texas commission on environmental quality. (Ord. 050916,
5-9-2016)
4-3-4: REQUIREMENTS FOR AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   Application for a "permit to burn" shall be made to the city of Santa
Anna in writing by the owner, operator, or other person in control of the
property upon which the burning is to occur. Application shall indicate the
permitted address or location, name, address and telephone numbers and a valid
driver's license or identification number. The application for "permit to burn"
is attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein. There will be a fee
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each permit and the permit will expire
thirty (30) days after starting the initial burn.
   B.   The "permit to burn" holder must notify the Coleman police department
dispatcher and the Santa Anna volunteer fire department (see subsection 4-3-5A
of this chapter) prior to the start of burning each day.
   C.   The permit is automatically on hold if a burn ban has been issued by
the Coleman County commissioner's court or imposed by the mayor of the city of
Santa Anna through a proclamation. (Ord. 050916, 5-9-2016)
4-3-5: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR BURNING:
   A.   The Santa Anna volunteer fire department fire marshal, or his designee,
may inspect the burn site and materials to ensure that no prohibited materials
are included and that general requirements are being followed.
   B.   If at any time the burning causes or may tend to cause smoke to blow
onto or across a street, roadway or highway it is the responsibility of the
person initiating the burn to post flag persons on the affected roads.
   C.   Fires must be kept downwind of or at least three hundred feet (300')
away from any adjoining property line or neighboring structure. If the property
is located part in the city and part out of the city, burning must occur on the
property located out of the city.
   D.   Burning shall not be conducted when wind speeds greater than twenty
three (23) miles per hour are predicted during the burn period.
   E.   Burning may begin no earlier than one hour after sunrise and must end
the same day no later than one hour before sunset. Fire must be completely
extinguished or covered with dirt.
   F.   A responsible party must be present at the burn site. Such person shall
have an adequate water supply or have other fire extinguishing equipment
readily available for use. Responsible party must have a reliable means of
communication available to call for assistance.
   G.   Any residual fires and/or smoldering objects that continue to emit
smoke must be extinguished at the end of the burn.
   H.   Only brush/vegetation generated and gathered from the burn site area
will be permitted. There shall be no importation of brush from any other
properties for the purpose of burning. (Ord. 050916, 5-9-2016)
4-3-6: PARALLEL REQUIREMENTS:
The authority to conduct outdoor burning under this chapter does not exempt or
excuse the requester from complying with all other applicable laws or
ordinances, regulations, and orders of any governmental entity having
jurisdiction, even though the burning is otherwise conducted in compliance with
this chapter. The requester will be responsible for any damage caused by the
spread of embers or out of control fire. The fire department will not conduct
any burning except for training and burning of vegetation on city owned
property. (Ord. 050916, 5-9-2016)
4-3-7: PENALTY:
Violators of this chapter shall be issued a citation and upon conviction for
such violation be assessed a penalty of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00). (Ord. 050916, 5-9-
2016)
CHAPTER 4
HAZARDOUS STRUCTURES, MATERIALS OR CONDITIONS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Owner Responsibility
4-4-2: Notice Requirements
4-4-3: City Responsibility; Costs
4-4-4: Violation; Penalty
4-4-1: OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any lot or premises to allow or permit
any condition to exist whereby any structures, buildings, waste, refuse,
chemical, or explosive material of any kind which may be dangerous in character
or likely to promote fire, shall be hazardous, dangerous, or unsafe for any
individual and for whatever purposes, including structures which, for lack of
repair or by reason of age or dilapidated condition, or for any cause, are
likely to burn, catch fire, cause a fire, endanger by location other buildings
or property, or lives, or endanger by occupation persons or property therein.
(1988 Code § 4-6-1)
4-4-2: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Whenever any condition described in this chapter is found to exist on
any premises within the city, the mayor or fire marshal shall notify the owner
of such premises or condition in writing to correct, remedy, or remove the
condition within thirty (30) days after such notice, and it shall be unlawful
for any person to fail to comply with such notice. (1988 Code § 4-6-2)
   B.   The notice provided in this section shall be served personally on the
owner, or shall be served by letter addressed to the owner at his last known
post office address. In the event that personal service cannot be had and the
owner's address is unknown, the notice shall be given by publication once in
the official newspaper of the city. (1988 Code § 4-6-3; amd. 2016 Code)
4-4-3: CITY RESPONSIBILITY; COSTS:
   A.   In the event the owner of any lot or premises upon which a condition
described in this chapter exists fails to correct, remedy or remove such
condition within thirty (30) days after notice to do so is given in accord with
this chapter, the city may do such work or make such improvements as are
necessary to correct, remedy or remove such conditions, or cause the same to be
done, and pay therefor and charge the expenses incurred thereby to the owner of
such lot. Such expenses shall be assessed against the lot or real estate upon
which the work was done or the improvements made. The doing of such work by the
city shall not relieve such person from prosecution for failure to comply with
such notice in violation of subsection 4-4-2A of this chapter. (1988 Code § 4-
6-4)
   B.   Whenever any work is done or improvements are made by the city under
the provisions of subsection A of this section, the mayor or fire marshal, on
behalf of the city, shall file a statement of the expenses incurred thereby
with the county clerk. Such statement shall give the amount of such expenses
and the date or dates on which the work was done or the improvements were made.
(1988 Code § 4-6-5)
   C.   After the statement provided in subsection B of this section is filed,
the city shall have a privileged lien on the lot or real estate upon which the
work was done or improvement made, to secure the expenses thereof. Such lien
shall be second only to tax liens and liens for street improvements, and the
amount thereof shall bear interest at the maximum amount allowed by law from
the date the statement was filed. For any such expenditures and interest, suit
may be instituted and recovery and foreclosure of the lien may be had in the
name of the city, and the statement of expenses made in accordance with this
subsection or a certified copy thereof shall be prima facie proof of the amount
expended for such work or improvements. (1988 Code § 4-6-6; amd. 2016 Code)
4-4-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall permit or allow the conditions described in this chapter
to exist upon his lot or other premises in the city, or any person who shall,
after having been notified in writing to correct, remedy or remove a condition
so described within thirty (30) days and who shall fail to correct, remedy or
remove such condition, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined up to
two hundred dollars ($200.00) for said violation. (1988 Code § 4-6-7)
CHAPTER 5
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Unreasonable Or Excessive Noise Prohibited
4-5-3: Specific Noise Prohibitions
4-5-4: Exceptions
4-5-5: Variances
4-5-6: Penalty
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
Words used in the present tense include the future; the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural the singular; reference to the male gender
includes the female, and references to any person or animal without specifying
gender include both male and female; the word "shall" is mandatory and
directory wherever it is used in this chapter. The following definitions shall
apply to this chapter:
EMERGENCY: Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent
physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate action.
PLAINLY AUDIBLE: Capable of being heard. It is not necessary to distinguish
words or melodies. A plainly audible sound may consist of bass alone.
RESIDENTIAL ZONE: An area designated as noncommercial.
UNREASONABLE NOISE: Any sound which endangers or injures the safety or health
of humans or animals, or annoys or disturbs an ordinary person of normal
sensitivities, or endangers or injures personal or real property. (Ord. 081213-
2, 8-12-2013)
4-5-2: UNREASONABLE OR EXCESSIVE NOISE PROHIBITED:
It shall be an offense for a person to make or continue, or cause to be made or
continued, any unreasonable noise, including noise of such volume, character,
intensity or duration as to be detrimental to the life, health or safety of an
individual, or in disturbance of the public peace and welfare. (Ord. 081213-2,
8-12-2013)
4-5-3: SPECIFIC NOISE PROHIBITIONS:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter:
   A.   Radios, Loudspeakers And Public Address Systems:
      1.   Commercial Use: Use or operation, or permitting to be played, used
or operated, any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph,
loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine or device producing or
reproducing sound which is cast upon the public streets from a point of origin
located on public or private property, for the purpose of commercial
advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or
structure.
      2.   Noncommercial Use: Use or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine
or device producing or reproducing sound which is cast upon the public streets
from a point of origin located on public or private property, for a
noncommercial purpose and operated in such a manner or at such a volume as to
annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office,
hospital, dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence in the vicinity.
   B.   Construction: The producing of plainly audible sound by the operation
of construction, demolition, or excavation equipment; performance of any
outside construction or repair work on buildings, structures, or projects; or
the operation of any pile driver, power shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick,
power hoist, or any other construction type device in order to erect, demolish,
alter, or repair any building, street, or highway within a residential zone or
on any property within a radius of five hundred feet (500') of a residential
structure on Sundays; legal holidays; Monday through Saturday between the hours
of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day in
May, June, July, August and September; and Monday through Saturday between the
hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. during the
remaining months of the year.
   C.   Motor Vehicles:
      1.   Repair Noise: The repairing, rebuilding, modifying or stationary
testing of any motor vehicle, motorcycle, or motorboat in such a manner as to
cause a sound plainly audible across any property boundary line between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
      2.   Sound Amplification Device: The operation or occupancy of a vehicle,
which is moving or stationary, standing or parked, from which any sound
amplification or producing device or similar equipment is creating a sound that
is plainly audible at least thirty feet (30') from the source of the sound.
      3.   Horns: The sounding any horn or other auditory signaling device on
or in any motor vehicle on any public right of way or public place, except as a
warning of danger. The continued or frequent sounding of any horn or signal
device on an automobile, motorcycle, bus or vehicle, except as a danger or
warning signal, the creation by means of any such signal of any unreasonable,
loud or harsh noise of any unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
      4.   Exhaust Without Mufflers: The discharge in the open air of the
exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor
vehicle or boat engine except through a muffler or other device which will
effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
      5.   Spinning Or Squealing Tires: The continued or frequent spinning or
squealing of tires coming from any motor vehicle.
   D.   Animals: The continued barking of dogs or noise of livestock in the
near proximity of a private home. (Ord. 081213-2, 8-12-2013)
4-5-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of
emergency work.
   B.   Any facility, vehicles or equipment of the city, county, state or
federal government while engaged upon necessary public business.
   C.   The use of bells or chimes in conjunction with places of religious
worship.
   D.   The intentional sounding or permitting the sounding of any fire,
burglar or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar stationary or
emergency signaling device for emergency purposes or for testing, provided such
testing uses only the minimum cycle test time.
   E.   Movement of aircraft which is, in all respects, conducted in accordance
with or pursuant to applicable federal laws or regulations. (Ord. 081213-2, 8-
12-2013)
4-5-5: VARIANCES:
Any person may apply to the mayor for a permit to conduct activities which
might otherwise violate this chapter. The mayor may impose such limitations as
time and geographic area for such activity. The mayor shall consider such
factors as adequate police protection, interference with established businesses
and the like. Such activities shall include, but not be limited to, functions
advancing the arts, holiday festivals, parades, public functions protected by
the first amendment and election activities. (Ord. 081213-2, 8-12-2013)
4-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, upon
conviction, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day's violation shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 081213-2, 8-12-2013; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 5
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Established; Appointments
5-1-2: Officers Commissioned
5-1-3: Terms Of Office
5-1-4: Chief Of Police
5-1-5: Oath; Bond; Compensation
5-1-6: Powers And Duties
5-1-7: Badge
5-1-8: Police Reserve Force
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENTS:
   A.   There is hereby created and established a police department for the
city. Said police department shall consist of one chief of police and such
additional police officers as the city council may from time to time deem
necessary and proper.
   B.   The chief of police and other members of the police department shall be
appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city council.
The chief of police may make recommendations to the mayor for the appointment
of police officers, but neither the mayor nor the city council shall be bound
by such recommendations. (1988 Code §
1-2-1)
5-1-2: OFFICERS COMMISSIONED:
The appointment of a chief of police or of any police officer shall be made and
entered in the minutes of the city council at any regular or special meeting of
said council, and the commission issued to such chief of police or police
officer shall become effective after the same has been signed by the mayor and
such appointment has been entered in the minutes. (1988 Code § 1-2-4)
5-1-3: TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   Chief Of Police: The position of chief of police is hereby declared to
be an appointive office of the city, and his term of office shall be as long as
he fulfills his duties as set by the city council.
   B.   Police Officers: Any police officer subordinate to the chief of police
shall serve at the will and pleasure of the city council. (1988 Code § 1-2-5)
5-1-4: CHIEF OF POLICE:
The chief of police shall be the chief police officer of the city and as such
shall have supervision over the other members of the police department. (1988
Code §
1-2-2)
5-1-5: OATH; BOND; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Oath And Bond: The chief of police and all members of the police
department shall take and subscribe to the official oath prescribed by the
constitution of the state of Texas, and shall give surety bond for faithful
performance of duties, payable to the city, in the sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), premiums for which shall be paid by the city. (1988 Code § 5-1-2-
3; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Compensation: The members of the police department shall receive such
compensation as the city council may from time to time determine. (1988 Code §
5-1-2-3)
5-1-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It is the duty of every member of the police department to preserve the peace
within the limits of the city, and to effect this purpose, the officer may use
all lawful means. He may interfere without warrant to suppress or prevent
crime. Every member of the police department shall have authority:
   A.   To execute warrants of arrest or other processes issued out of the
municipal court in the city.
   B.   To arrest without warrant in all cases where authorized by the laws of
the state. (1988 Code § 5-1-2-6)
   C.   To arrest without warrant when offenses against the laws or ordinances
are committed in his presence, or where persons are found in suspicious places,
and under circumstances which reasonably show that such persons may be
committing some felony or breach of the peace, or threaten or are about to
commit some offense against the law. (1988 Code § 5-1-2-6; amd. 2016 Code)
5-1-7: BADGE:
A metallic badge, identifying the police chief and each police officer as a
member of the police department, shall be issued to each member of the police
department. (1988 Code § 5-1-2-7)
5-1-8: POLICE RESERVE FORCE:
   A.   Established; Number Of Officers: A police reserve force is hereby
established in the city. The number of reserve police officers authorized is
five (5).
   B.   Appointment: The chief of police shall appoint the members of the
police reserve force, subject to ratification and approval by the city council.
The appointment of individual members of the police reserve force shall not be
in effect until such individual appointments are approved by a majority vote of
the city council.
   C.   Qualifications And Training: Each appointed reserve police officer
shall, at the time of appointment, be a certified police officer in the state
of Texas. It shall be the individual responsibility of each reserve officer to
maintain his standing as a certified police officer and to receive such
training as is required to maintain such certification. The reserve police
officers shall further maintain and complete not less than the continuing
training as is required by the chief of police.
   D.   Call To Service: The chief of police may call reserve police officers
into service and schedule such reserve officers for duty as the chief
determines necessary and reasonable. Such reserve police officers shall have
the authority of a peace officer within the city only when such reserve officer
is on duty as requested, directed or scheduled by the chief of police.
   E.   Rules And Regulations: Subject to the approval of the city council, the
chief of police may prepare and enforce a policy, regulations and requirements
applicable to the qualifications, appointment, service, training, conduct,
discipline and dismissal of reserve police officers appointed pursuant to this
section. (Ord. 051402, 5-14-2002)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Sanitary Premises; Nuisance Conditions
5-2-2: Disposal Of Dead Animals
5-2-3: Slaughtering Animals Prohibited
5-2-4: Care And Treatment Of Animals
5-2-1: SANITARY PREMISES; NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises Requirements; Nuisance Conditions: No person, firm or
corporation shall keep any animal, whether one or more, penned or otherwise
confined in an unsanitary manner or condition. Proper measures shall be taken
to prevent the breeding of flies or mosquitoes, the production of offensive
odors and the accumulation of manure or offal; and it shall further be a
violation of this code to keep any animal within the city limits in such a
manner as to be a public nuisance or offensive to neighboring persons or
businesses. (1988 Code § 4-7-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   In the event animals are for stock show projects of 4-H and FFA
members, it shall be the responsibility of the owner to obtain a permit to keep
the animal in the city limits for feeding, training, and grooming. The permit
can be obtained from the mayor or city secretary upon the presentation of a
notice of participation signed by the 4-H coordinator and/or FFA vo-ag teacher.
The permit shall become valid upon approval and will expire thirty (30) days
following the final stock show or competition of the season.
      2.   Citizens whose livelihood depends on the buying and selling of
livestock may, under this section, provide temporary shelter and feeding for a
period of not more than six (6) days at a time. Citizens who own or lease over
an acre of land within the city limits will not be subject to this section;
provided the owners of the livestock do not confine or pen the animals within
two hundred feet (200') of any neighboring residence, nor in any unsanitary
manner or condition, and proper measures shall be taken to prevent the breeding
of flies, the production of offensive odors, and the accumulation of manure.
(1988 Code § 4-7-2; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Penalty: Should any person, firm or corporation be in violation of this
section and fail to correct the violation within a reasonable allotted period
of time, the person shall be fined a sum not to exceed two hundred dollars
($200.00) per day for as long as the violation continues to exist. (1988 Code §
4-7-3)
5-2-2: DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS:
   A.   Removal By Owner: Any owner, keeper or person in charge of any animal
that dies within the city limits shall immediately move or have same moved
without the city limits; except, that a household pet may be buried on the
property if buried in a grave deep enough to prevent odor detection and to
protect sanitation. No animal bigger than a dog may be so buried without
permission from the mayor or city secretary.
   B.   Removal By City: In case any unwholesome matter, filth or putrid or
unsound beef, pork or fish, or hides or skins of any kind, or any animal is
found dead and the owner, keeper or person in charge thereof cannot be found or
his name obtained, or if found or name obtained and the mayor is thoroughly
convinced that such person is wholly unable and that it is impossible for him
to have such dead animal removed from the city limits, the mayor may order the
city maintenance personnel to remove same at the expense of the city. (1988
Code § 4-2-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person failing or refusing to comply with the
provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 4-2-4)
5-2-3: SLAUGHTERING ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
Any person who shall slaughter or permit or cause to be slaughtered in the city
any cattle, hog or sheep for market shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
twenty five dollars ($25.00). (1988 Code § 4-2-4)
5-2-4: CARE AND TREATMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Food, Water, Shelter, Protection And Veterinary Care: No owner shall
fail to provide his animals with sufficient good and wholesome food and water,
proper shelter and protection from the weather, veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering, and humane care and treatment. (Ord. 011011, 1-10-2011)
   B.   Cruelty; Fighting: No person shall beat, ill treat, torment, or
otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate, or permit any dogfight,
cockfight, or other combat between animals or between animals and humans. (Ord.
011011, 1-10-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Abandonment: No owner of an animal shall abandon any animal.
   D.   Striking Animal With Vehicle: Any person who, as the operator of a
motor vehicle, strikes a domestic animal shall stop at once and render such
assistance as may be possible and shall immediately report such injury or death
to the animal's owner. In the event the owner cannot be ascertained and
located, the operator shall at once report the accident to the appropriate law
enforcement agency or to the local humane society.
   E.   Poisoning: No person shall expose any known poisonous substance,
whether mixed with food or not, so that the same shall be liable to be eaten by
any animal; provided, that it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose upon
his own property common rat poison mixed only with vegetable substances. (Ord.
011011, 1-10-2011)
ARTICLE A.  DOGS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Definitions
5-2A-2: Running At Large
5-2A-3: Rabies Control
5-2A-4: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
5-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
AT LARGE: Not under the control of the owner either by a leash, chain, cord or
other suitable material attached to a collar or harness on the dog; not
restrained securely within an enclosure or fenced premises.
DOG: The male or female of the canine species of animals.
OWNER: Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having control or custody of a
dog. (Ord. 011011, 1-10-2011)
5-2A-2: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Prohibited: No dogs shall be permitted to run at large within the city.
All dogs shall be confined on the premises owned or under the control of their
owners at all times. Dogs on a leash, however, shall not be construed as
running at large, provided the leash is either attached to an immovable object
or firmly grasped and at all times within the control of a person physically
able to maintain control of such dog.
   B.   Violation; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person owning or
harboring any dog to allow or to permit such dog to run or to be at large
within the city limits. The animal control officer or a police officer of the
city may cite any owner permitting a dog to run at large, and the said owner,
if convicted in municipal court, shall be fined not more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 011011, 1-10-2011)
5-2A-3: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Vaccination Requirements:
      1.   Vaccination Required: It shall be unlawful for any owner of any dog
over the age of three (3) months to harbor or permit said dog to remain within
the city without having obtained a certificate of vaccination for such dog. All
dogs over three (3) months of age within the city shall be immunized annually
against rabies by means of an approved antirabies vaccine administered by a
duly licensed veterinarian.
      2.   Issuance Of Certificate: Every veterinarian who vaccinates any such
dog within the city shall issue a certificate of vaccination to the owner
stating the name and address of the owner, description of the dog, the date of
vaccination, tag, and the kind of vaccine used.
      3.   Vaccination Tag: Upon vaccination of each dog, the veterinarian
shall furnish the owner thereof a durable tag, on one side of which are stamped
the words "Rabies Vaccine Administered" (or similar phrase) and the date of the
vaccination. Such tag shall at all times be securely attached to a collar
around the neck of the animal or on a harness around the neck and body of the
dog vaccinated. Dog vaccination tags shall not be transferable from one dog to
another, and it shall be unlawful for the owner or person having control over
or custody of any dog to transfer such license tag from the dog for which such
tag was issued to another dog.
   B.   Dog Bites:
      1.   If any dog has bitten any person, or is suspected of having or being
infected with rabies, then said dog shall be apprehended and retained in the
city pound, securely penned and separated from other dogs and animals, for such
period as may be necessary to ascertain whether or not the dog is infected with
rabies. If, after sufficient observation, the dog, in the opinion of the chief
of police, is not infected, the dog, if claimed, shall be returned to the
owner. If, in the opinion of the chief of police, after consultation with a
licensed veterinarian or county health officer, symptoms develop justifying a
microscopic examination, then the dog shall be killed and the head sent to the
state board of health in Austin for further examination.
      2.   In lieu of the provisions of subsection B1 of this section, the
owner of any such dog may, at his own expense, take such dog to any duly
qualified and licensed veterinarian in the city for observation. Such
veterinarian shall report his finding in writing to the chief of police. If, in
the opinion of such veterinarian, a microscopic examination is justified, then
the dog shall be turned over to the city police department and shall be killed,
and the head shall be send to the state board of health in Austin as described
in subsection B1 of this section.
      3.   Any dog desired for observation by the chief of police under this
subsection B shall be delivered to the police department upon demand and shall
not be withheld, hidden, or harbored. Persons violating this provision shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon refusal of any person to so deliver such
dog, any officer of the police department shall cause a warrant to be issued
for the arrest of such person, which warrant shall also provide for the
surrender of the dog and shall be lawful authority for the apprehending and
forceful taking of such dog. (Ord. 011011, 1-10-2011)
5-2A-4: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Duty Of Officer To Impound: It shall be the duty of any authorized
officer of the city to cause to be taken up or impounded all dogs found in the
city in violation of the provisions of this article. Such officer is hereby
authorized to enter upon any unfenced lot, tract, or parcel of land for the
purpose of seizing and impounding any such dog. (Ord. 011011, 1-10-2011)
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Impoundment Fee: An impoundment fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
shall be charged for the impoundment of any dog under the provisions of this
article. (Ord. 011011, 1-10-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   General Care Fee: A fee of five dollars ($5.00) per day shall be
charged for the feeding, care, and handling of each dog impounded under the
provisions of this article.
      3.   Liability For Costs: Every owner of any dog impounded by the city or
voluntarily impounded by the owner shall be liable for all costs and fees
incurred by such impoundment.
   C.   Redemption Of Impounded Dogs:
      1.   The owner of any dog which has been impounded under the provisions
of this article shall have the right to redeem the same upon payment of any and
all fees which may be due and payable for the impoundment of such dog. An
impounded dog may not be taken from the city pound after city hall hours. The
owner must visit city hall, pay the impoundment fee and show proof of
vaccination.
      2.   All impounded dogs shall be redeemed within the length of time set
forth below. Any such dog not redeemed within such time may be sold or
destroyed.
         a.   Licensed dog: Six (6) days.
         b.   Unlicensed dog: Three (3) days.
      3.   All unlicensed dogs redeemed at the city pound must be immediately
vaccinated against rabies. Proof of such vaccination must be furnished to city
hall. (Ord. 011011, 1-10-2011)
   D.   Adoption Or Destruction Of Impounded Dogs: At any time after the
expiration of the period of time for the redemption of impounded dogs, such
dogs may be adopted by paying the twenty five dollar ($25.00) impoundment fee.
Proof of rabies vaccination shall be required on all dogs adopted. All dogs
impounded and not redeemed or adopted after the period of time for redemption
has expired shall forthwith be humanely destroyed by the animal control
officer. (Ord. 011011, 1-10-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   Records Of Impoundment:
      1.   The animal control officer shall, upon receiving any dog, make a
complete registry thereof, entering the breed, color, and sex of said dog,
together with a statement of whether said dog is licensed or not, and the time
and place of taking into custody. If such dog is licensed, the animal control
officer or his deputies shall enter the name and address of the owner and the
number of the license tag upon such registry. A responsible effort will be made
to notify the owner of the impounded licensed dog. Licensed dogs shall be kept
separated from unlicensed dogs at all times.
      2.   In addition to such records, the animal control officer shall also
keep necessary records as are required to show in detail the disposition of all
dogs impounded, the monies collected, and any other records as may be required
by the city. All monies collected shall be placed in the general fund of the
city. The owner of any impounded dog may, within thirty (30) days after such
dog is sold, redeem the same from such purchaser by paying to the purchaser the
amount of the purchase price paid to the animal control officer; and in
addition thereto, the license fee and vaccination charges, if any were
incurred; and in addition thereto, a charge of one dollar ($1.00) per day for
the number of days from the date of sale to the date of redemption. At the end
of thirty (30) days from the date the dog is sold, the right to redeem shall
expire.
   F.   Reports By Animal Control Officer: The animal control officer shall
file such reports under oath as are required by the city or by the city
council. (Ord. 011011, 1-10-2011)
CHAPTER 3
PENAL CODE
SECTION:
5-3-1: State Laws Adopted
5-3-1: STATE LAWS ADOPTED:
The Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code, Texas Penal Code, Texas Code Of Criminal
Procedure, Texas Family Code and Texas drug laws are adopted by reference
herein the same as if set out herein in full. Copies of same are on file in the
office of the police chief for inspection by the public. (1988 Code §
5-3-1)
CHAPTER 4
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES AND PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Inhaling Toxic Substances
5-4-2: Discharge Of Firearms
5-4-3: Arson; Reward For Information
5-4-1: INHALING TOXIC SUBSTANCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city to
sniff, inhale or have in possession for the purpose of sniffing or inhaling:
paint thinner, glue, gasoline, lacquer thinner, paint, varnish or other toxic
substances for the purpose of affecting the user's central nervous system, to
create or induce a condition of intoxication, euphoria, hallucination or
elation, or to change, distort or disturb the user's eyesight, thinking
process, balance or coordination and in a manner contrary to the directions for
use, cautions or warnings appearing on the label of a container. Any person who
shall violate this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code §
4-2-1)
5-4-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
   A.   Prohibited Discharge: On and after the effective date hereof, it shall
be unlawful for any person, other than a peace officer in the discharge of his
duties, to discharge any gun, pistol or firearm of any kind or discharge an air
rifle or air pistol of any description, by whatever name known, that by means
of compressed air, compressed gas, springs or any other means is capable of
discharging shot, pellets or any solid object within the corporate limits of
the city.
   B.   Allowing Minors To Discharge: It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause or knowingly permit his child or ward under the age of seventeen (17)
years to discharge any gun, pistol or firearm of any kind or to discharge any
air rifle or air pistol of any description, by whatever name known, that by
means of compressed air, compressed gas, springs or any other means is capable
of discharging shot, pellets or any solid object within the corporate limits of
the city.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who is convicted of the violation of this section
shall be fined not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00). (1988 Code §
5-5-1)
5-4-3: ARSON; REWARD FOR INFORMATION:
The city hereby offers a reward of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
information leading to the arrest and conviction of any person or persons for
the crime of arson within the corporate limits of the city. This reward is a
standing offer and shall be paid out of the general fund of the city. (1988
Code § 4-2-5)
CHAPTER 5
RESTRICTED SMOKING MATERIALS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Findings
5-5-2: Purpose
5-5-3: Definitions
5-5-4: Sale, Delivery, Offer Or Gift Prohibited
5-5-5: Use Or Possession Prohibited
5-5-6: Defenses To Prosecution
5-5-7: Violation; Penalty
5-5-1: FINDINGS:
The recitals set out in the ordinance codified herein are hereby found to be
true and correct and are incorporated herein as findings of fact. The city
council hereby further finds and determines that the rules, regulations, terms,
conditions, provisions and requirements of this chapter are reasonable and
necessary to protect the public health, safety and quality of life. (Ord.
110810-1, 11-8-2010)
5-5-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the sale, delivery, or gift of
restricted smoking materials as defined in section
5-5-3 of this chapter within the city and to prohibit the possession of
restricted smoking materials within the city limits. Any form of delivery to
include a simple gift constitutes a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 110810-1,
11-8-2010)
5-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
PERSON: Includes individual, corporation, organization, government or
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership,
association, and any other legal entity.
POSSESSION: Actual care, custody, control, or management, as that term is
interpreted by Texas courts in construing the definition of "possession" as set
forth in chapter 481, Texas Health And Safety Code, as amended from time to
time.
RESTRICTED SMOKING MATERIAL:
   A.   Any substance, however marketed, which can reasonably be converted for
smoking purposes, whether it is presented as incense, tobacco, herbs, spices or
any blend thereof if it includes any of the following chemicals or a comparable
chemical:
      1. Salvia divinorum or salvinorin A: All parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts, derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
      2. 2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2- methyloctan-2-yl)phenol (also
known as CP47,497) and homologues;
      3. (6aS, 10aS)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol) (also known as HU-211 or
dexanabinol);
      4. 1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-018);
      5. 1-butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-073); or
      6. 1-pentyl-3-(4-methoxynaphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-081).
   B.   Products containing some of the above substances are currently being
marketed under the following commercial names: "K-2", "K-2 Summit", "K-2 Sex",
"Genie", "Dascents", "Zohai", "Sage", "Spice", "Southern Spice", "Serenity
Now", "Space", "Hydro", "Ez", "Ko Knock-Out 2", "Spice Gold", "Diamond", "Spice
Diamond", "Yucatan Fire", "Solar Flare", "Pep Spice", "Fire N'Ice", "Salvinorin
A" and "Salvia Divinorum".
   C.   It is anticipated that new products will be marketed under different
names but will be subject to this definition if they contain any of the
chemical components set forth above.
RESTRICTED SMOKING MATERIAL PARAPHERNALIA OR INGESTION DEVICE: Any equipment,
product, material, or utensil that is used or intended for use in packaging,
storing, containing, or concealing restricted smoking material or ingesting,
inhaling, consuming, or otherwise introducing into the human body restricted
smoking material, and may include, but is not limited to:
   A.   A metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipe with
or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or punctured metal bowl;
   B.   A water pipe;
   C.   A carburetion tube or device;
   D.   A smoking or carburetion mask;
   E.   A chamber pipe;
   F.   A carburetor pipe;
   G.   An electric pipe;
   H.   An air driven pipe;
   I.   A chillum;
   J.   A bong; or
   K.   An ice pipe or chiller. (Ord. 110810-1, 11-8-2010)
5-5-4: SALE, DELIVERY, OFFER OR GIFT PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell, deliver to or give
any restricted smoking material to any person. (Ord. 110810-1, 11-8-2010)
5-5-5: USE OR POSSESSION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Restricted Smoking Materials: It shall be unlawful for any person to
have in his or her possession or to use restricted smoking materials within the
corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Paraphernalia: It shall be unlawful for any person to use or to possess
with the intent to use restricted smoking material paraphernalia to package,
store, contain, or conceal restricted smoking material or to ingest, inhale,
consume or otherwise introduce restricted smoking material into the human body.
If an individual is found using or in possession of restricted smoking material
paraphernalia, it shall be a violation of this chapter if appropriate testing
is done on the paraphernalia and traces of restricted smoking material are
present on the device. (Ord. 110810-1, 11-8-2010)
5-5-6: DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION:
   A.   It shall be a defense to prosecution for a violation of this chapter if
the use of the restricted smoking material is at the direction or under a
prescription issued by a licensed physician or dentist authorized to prescribe
controlled substances within the state of Texas.
   B.   It shall be a defense to prosecution under the terms of this chapter if
an individual charged with a violation can provide proper and complete historic
documentation that the use of such materials is a portion of a religious
undertaking or activity of a religious denomination in which they have long
standing historic membership supported by documentation from clergy or
spiritual leader recognized by the state of Texas. (Ord. 110810-1, 11-8-2010)
5-5-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction in the municipal court of the
city, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for each offense, and
each and every day any such violation shall continue shall be deemed to
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 110810-1, 11-8-2010)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Curfew Regulations
5-6-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
    ADULT: For the purpose of subsection C2 of this section shall mean any
person over twenty one (21) years of age.
   EMERGENCY: Includes, but is not limited to, fire, natural disaster,
automobile accident, or obtaining immediate medical care for another person.
   GUARDIAN: Any person to whom custody of a minor has been given by a court
order.
   MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is the natural or adoptive parent of a minor. As used
herein, "parent" shall also include a court appointed guardian or other person
eighteen (18) years of age or older, authorized by the natural or adoptive
parent, by a court order, or by the court appointed guardian to have the care
and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops and the interior of vehicles located in public
places.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   Minor:
         a.   A minor commits an offense if he intentionally or knowingly
appears in a public place in the city between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday (August 16 through May 31) and between the hours of one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Friday and Saturday (January 1 through
December 31).
         b.   A minor commits an offense if he intentionally or knowingly
appears in a public place in the city between the hours of one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday (June 1 through August 15).
      2.   Parent: A parent commits an offense if he intentionally knowingly,
recklessly, or with criminal negligence allows a minor to be in violation of
the curfew imposed in subsection B1 of this section.
   C.   Defenses: It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under subsection
B of this section that:
      1.   The minor was accompanied by his parent.
      2.   The minor was accompanied by another adult approved by his parent.
      3.   The minor was on an emergency errand.
      4.   The minor was attending a school, religious, or organized community
activity or was going to or coming from a school, religious, or organized
community activity.
      5.   The minor was engaged in a lawful employment activity or was going
directly from lawful employment.
      6.   The minor was on an errand directed by his parent.
      7.   The minor was in a motor vehicle involved in intrastate or
interstate transportation or transportation for which passage through the
curfew area is the most direct route.
      8.   The minor was exercising his first amendment rights protected by the
United States constitution including, but not limited to, the free exercise of
religion, freedom of speech, and the right to assembly.
      9.   The minor was married, had been married, or had disabilities of
minority removed in accordance with chapter 31 of the Texas Family Code.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a
fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 081203, 8-12-2003)
ARTICLE A.  PREDATORY SEX OFFENDERS
SECTION:
5-6A-1: Findings Of Fact
5-6A-2: Definitions
5-6A-3: Offenses
5-6A-4: Evidentiary Matters; Measurements
5-6A-5: Affirmative Defenses And Exceptions
5-6A-6: Variances
5-6A-7: Violation; Penalty
5-6A-8: Conflicting Provisions
5-6A-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
The findings and recitations set out in the ordinance codified herein are found
to be true and correct and they are hereby adopted by the city council and made
a part hereof for all purposes as findings of fact. The city council further
finds that certain predatory sex offenders are likely to repeat offenses, to
have many more victims than are ever reported, and to be prosecuted for only a
fraction of their actual sexual offenses. The city council further finds that
many children lack the ability to protect themselves from predatory sex
offenders. The city council further finds that the safety of children is
paramount, and the restrictions provided in this article will serve the public
safety of the children and the public welfare by providing some peace of mind
to parents. (Ord. 051313-2, 5-13-2013)
5-6A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article the following terms, words, and the
derivations thereof shall have the meanings given herein:
DATABASE: The central database, also known as the Texas department of public
safety public sex offender database, required to be maintained by the Texas
department of public safety pursuant to article 62.005 of the Texas Code Of
Criminal Procedure.
DAYCARE CENTER: A childcare facility that is registered, licensed or listed by
the state of Texas.
MINOR: A person younger than seventeen (17) years of age.
PERMANENT RESIDENCE: A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides for
fourteen (14) or more consecutive days.
PERSON: Includes an individual, firm, corporation, or other business entity.
PREMISES WHERE CHILDREN COMMONLY GATHER: Public parks, private and public
schools, amusement arcades, video arcades and youth centers as defined in Texas
Health And Safety Code section 481.134, indoor and outdoor amusement centers
that cater primarily to children, amusement parks, public, commercial, and
semiprivate swimming pools, child daycare centers, and public or private school
or daycare bus stops. For the purposes of this article, planted street medians
are not public parks.
REGISTRANT: A person who has a reportable conviction or adjudication or who,
pursuant to Texas Code Of Criminal Procedure chapter 62, is required to
register with the Texas department of public safety's database as a condition
of parole, release to mandatory supervision, or community supervision.
REPORTABLE CONVICTION OR ADJUDICATION: A conviction or adjudication, including
an adjudication of delinquent conduct or a deferred adjudication, that,
regardless of the pendency of an appeal, is a conviction for or an adjudication
for or based on those enumerated offenses set forth in Texas Code Of Criminal
Procedure article 62.001(5).
TEMPORARY RESIDENCE:
   A.   A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides for a period of
fourteen (14) or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and which
is not the person's permanent address; or
   B.   A place where a person routinely abides, resides or lodges for a period
of four (4) or more consecutive or nonconsecutive days in any month and which
is not the person's permanent residence. (Ord. 051313-2, 5-13-2013)
5-6A-3: OFFENSES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a registrant to establish a permanent
residence or temporary residence within one thousand feet (1,000') of any
premises where children commonly gather.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to lease, rent, or otherwise provide any
residence, dwelling, place, structure, or part thereof, manufactured home,
trailer, or other conveyance, with the knowledge that it will be used as a
permanent residence or temporary residence by a registrant. (Ord. 051313-2, 5-
13-2013)
5-6A-4: EVIDENTIARY MATTERS; MEASUREMENTS:
   A.   It shall be prima facie evidence that this article applies to a person
if that person's record appears on the database and the database indicates that
the victim was less than seventeen (17) years of age.
   B.   For the purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the
distance shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer property
line of the permanent or temporary residence to the nearest property line of
the premises where children commonly gather; provided, that:
      1.   In the case of multiple residences on one property, measurement is
from the nearest property line of the residence premises following a straight
line to the nearest property line of the premises where children commonly
gather; and
      2.   In the case of a bus stop, measurement is from the center point of
the stop following a straight line to the property line of the permanent or
temporary residence.
   C.   A map depicting the prohibited areas shall be maintained by the city.
The city shall review the map every three (3) months for changes. The map will
be available to the public at the city police department. (Ord. 051313-2, 5-13-
2013)
5-6A-5: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES AND EXCEPTIONS:
It is an affirmative defense to prosecution that any of the following
conditions apply; provided, that there is no court order in effect applicable
to the registrant that provides otherwise:
   A.   The registrant established the permanent or temporary residence and has
complied with all of the sex offender registration laws of the state of Texas
prior to the effective date hereof.
   B.   The registrant was a minor when he or she committed the offense
requiring such registration and was not convicted as an adult.
   C.   The registrant is a minor.
   D.   The premises where children commonly gather as specified herein within
one thousand feet (1,000') of the permanent or temporary residence of the
person required to register on the database was opened after the registrant
established the permanent or temporary residence, and the registrant has
complied with all sex offender registration laws of the state of Texas.
   E.   The information on the database is incorrect, and if corrected, this
article would not apply to the person who was erroneously listed on the
database. (Ord. 051313-2, 5-13-2013)
5-6A-6: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance:
      1.   A person may request a variance from the terms of this article based
upon the grounds set forth in section
5-6A-5 of this article.
      2.   A request for a variance from the terms of this article shall be
submitted in writing to the city secretary and shall include the following
information:
         a.   The person's name and address;
         b.   The offense(s) requiring registration on the database for which
the person was convicted;
         c.   Date(s) of conviction(s);
         d.   The specific grounds supporting the person's request for a
variance; and
         e.   Any other information requested by the city.
   B.   Conditions For Granting Variance:
      1.   The chief of police may grant a variance request based upon the
grounds set forth in section
5-6A-5 of this article. The chief of police shall issue a written ruling on a
variance request within ten (10) business days of receiving a completed
application. The ruling of the chief of police may be appealed to the city
council by submitting a written request for appeal to the city secretary within
ten (10) days from the date of the chief's ruling or the deadline for issuance
of a ruling, in the event the chief of police does not make a ruling within the
required time period. Upon receipt of a written appeal, the city secretary
shall schedule the appeal for the next regularly scheduled city council meeting
for which notice can be lawfully posted.
      2.   In addition to the grounds set forth in section
5-6A-5 of this article, the city council may grant a variance if it finds that
the facts and circumstances demonstrate that the registrant's temporary or
permanent residence within the child safety zone will not be a danger to
children. A variance requested under this subsection B2 may be granted by the
city council only. A person who seeks a variance under this subsection B2 shall
apply for a variance as provided in subsection A2 of this section. Upon receipt
of a completed application, the city secretary shall schedule the variance
request for the next regularly scheduled city council meeting for which notice
can be lawfully posted. The person requesting the variance shall be notified of
the city council's decision in writing.
   C.   Waivers: A variance granted under this section may include waiving the
application of section
5-6A-3 of this article to the registrant, or reducing the size of the safety
zone as it applies to the registrant. (Ord. 051313-2, 5-13-2013)
5-6A-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this article shall
be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction of such violation,
shall be punishable by a penalty of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 051313-2, 5-13-2013; amd. 2016 Code)
5-6A-8: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In the event of a conflict between another ordinance of the city and this
article, this article shall control. (Ord. 051313-2, 5-13-2013)
CHAPTER 7
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Manufacture, Sales Prohibited
5-7-2: Discharge Prohibited
5-7-3: Exemptions
5-7-4: Violation; Penalty
5-7-1: MANUFACTURE, SALES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, sell or offer for sale, or
have in his possession with the intent to give away, any rocket, squib, blue
light, firecracker, torpedo, grenade or fireworks of any kind whatsoever within
the city limits. (1988 Code §
4-2-2)
5-7-2: DISCHARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, cast, throw or fire any
rocket, squib, blue light, firecracker, torpedo, grenade or fireworks of any
kind whatsoever within the city limits. (1988 Code §
4-2-2)
5-7-3: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to apply to the sale or storage or
use of torpedoes or other signaling device used by railroads nor prevent any
public or private demonstration or display of fireworks of any kind if
conducted under proper police supervision after application has been made and
permit has been issued by the mayor and city council for such demonstration.
Said permit shall not be granted unless such demonstration or display shall be
of such character and be so located, discharged and fired as, in the opinion of
the mayor and city council, after proper inspection, that such demonstration or
display shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any person or persons.
(1988 Code §
4-2-2)
5-7-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (1988
Code §
4-2-2)
CHAPTER 8
FAIR HOUSING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Definitions
5-8-2: Fair Housing Administrator
5-8-3: Discriminatory Practices Prohibited; Exemptions
5-8-4: Complaints
5-8-5: Investigations; Legal Procedures And Services
5-8-6: Unlawful Intimidation
5-8-7: Cooperation With Federal Agencies
5-8-8: Education And Public Information
5-8-9: Violation; Penalties
5-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future; words in the
masculine gender include the feminine; words in the plural number include the
singular; and words in the singular number include the plural.
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under section
5-8-3 of this chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designed and intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families or
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
FAMILY: Persons related by blood, marriage or adoption and includes a single
individual.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees,
fiduciaries and any other organization or entity of whatever character.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant. (1988
Code §
5-6-1)
5-8-2: FAIR HOUSING ADMINISTRATOR:
The mayor shall appoint and the council shall confirm a fair housing
administrator (hereinafter referred to as "administrator"), who shall have the
responsibility for implementing this chapter. The administrator may delegate
his authority to investigate and conciliate complaints to other city employees
under his direction. (1988 Code § 5-6-2)
5-8-3: DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Discrimination In The Sale Or Rental Of Housing: Except as exempted by
subsection D of this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, sex, religion or national
origin;
      2.   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sales or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, sex, religion or
national origin;
      3.   Make, print, publish or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement regarding the sale or rental of a dwelling
that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on race,
color, sex, religion or national origin or any intention to make any such
preference, limitation or discrimination;
      4.   Represent to any person because of race, color, sex, religion or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      5.   For profit or with the hope or expectation of profit, induce or
attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling by representations
regarding the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or
persons of a particular race, color, sex, religion or national origin;
      6.   For profit or with the hope or expectation of profit to influence or
attempt to influence, by any words, acts or failure to act, any seller,
purchaser, landlord or tenant of a dwelling so as to promote the maintenance of
racially segregated housing or so as to retard, obstruct or discourage racially
integrated housing.
   B.   Discrimination In The Financing Of Housing: It shall be unlawful for
any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or other
corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in whole
or in part of the making of commercial or residential real estate loans to deny
a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling; or to discriminate against any such person in the fixing of the
amount, interest rate, brokerage points, duration or other terms or conditions
of such loan or other financial assistance because of:
      1.   The race, color, sex, religion or national origin of such person or
of any person associated with him in connection with such loan or other
financial assistance; or
      2.   The race, color, sex, religion or national origin of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings
for which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given.
   C.   Discrimination In The Provision Of Brokerage Services: It shall be
unlawful for any person to deny access to or membership or participation in any
multiple listing service, real estate brokers' organization or other services,
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings or to discriminate in the terms or conditions of such access,
membership or participation on account of race, color, sex, religion or
national origin.
   D.   Exemptions And Exclusions:
      1.   There shall be exempted from the application of subsection A of this
section all transactions involving:
         a.   The rental of units in dwellings containing living quarters
occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living
independently of each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of
such units as his residence;
         b.   The rental of a single room in a dwelling containing living
quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than one family if the
person offering such room for rental actually maintains and occupies the
remainder of such dwelling as his residence and not more than four (4) such
rooms are offered;
         c.   The sale or rental of any single house by a private individual
who owns such house; provided, that:
            (1)   The sale or rental is made without the use in any manner of
the sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any real
estate broker, agent or salesman, or of such facilities or services of any
person in the business of selling or renting or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent, salesman or person; and
            (2)   The sale is made without the publication, posting or mailing
of any advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection A3 of this
section (this shall not prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents,
abstractors, title companies and other such professional assistance as
necessary to perfect or transfer the title); and
            (3)   The owner does not own more than three (3) single-family
houses at the time of the sale; and
            (4)   The owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or
reserved on his behalf under any express or voluntary agreement, title to or
any right to all or any portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more
than three (3) such single-family houses at any one time; and
            (5)   If the owner does not reside in the house at the time of sale
or was not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale, the
exemption granted by this subsection D shall apply only with respect to one
such sale within any twenty four (24) month period.
      2.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious association or
society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color, sex or national origin.
      3.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a bona fide private club, not
in fact open to the public, which, as an incident to its primary purpose,
provides lodging which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose,
from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
      4.   Nothing in this chapter shall bar any person from owning and
operating a housing accommodation in which a room or rooms are leased,
subleased or rented only to persons of the same sex, when such housing
accommodation contains common lavatory, kitchen or similar facilities available
for the use of all persons occupying such housing accommodation. (1988 Code §
5-6-3)
5-8-4: COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Only the person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that has occurred or is occurring (hereinafter
referred to as "person aggrieved") may file a complaint with the administrator.
Such complaints shall be in writing and shall identify the person alleged to
have committed or alleged to be committing a discriminatory housing practice
and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a discriminatory
housing practice are based. The administrator shall prepare complaint forms and
furnish them without charge to any person upon request. (1988 Code § 5-6-4;
amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   If at any time the administrator shall receive or discover credible
evidence and shall have probable cause to believe that any person or persons
have committed or are committing a discriminatory housing practice as to which
no complaint has been filed, the administrator may prepare and file a complaint
upon his own motion and in his own name, and such complaint shall thereafter be
treated in the same manner as a complaint filed by a person aggrieved.
   C.   The administrator shall receive and accept notification and referral
complaints from the U.S. attorney general and the secretary of housing and
urban development pursuant to the provisions of title VIII, fair housing act of
1968, public law 90-284, as amended by the housing and community development
act of 1974, and shall treat such complaints hereunder in the same manner as
complaints filed pursuant to subsection A of this section.
   D.   All complaints shall be filed within sixty (60) days following the
occurrence of an alleged discriminatory housing practice. Upon the filing or
referral of any complaint, the administrator shall provide notice of the
complaint by furnishing a copy of such complaint to the persons named therein
who allegedly committed or were threatening to commit an alleged discriminatory
housing practice. The accused may file an answer to the complaint within
fifteen (15) days of receipt of the written complaint. All complaints and
answers shall be subscribed and sworn to before an officer authorized to
administer oaths.
   E.   The administrator shall have the responsibility of referring housing
discrimination complaints filed in the locality to the fair housing equal
opportunity division of the Fort Worth regional office of the department of
housing and urban development. (1988 Code § 5-6-4)
5-8-5: INVESTIGATIONS; LEGAL PROCEDURES AND SERVICES:
   A.   Upon the filing or referral of a complaint as herein provided, the
administrator shall cause to be made a prompt and full investigation of the
matter stated in the complaint.
   B.   During or after the investigation, but subsequent to the mailing of the
notice of complaint, the administrator shall, if it appears that a
discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is threatening to occur,
attempt by informal endeavors to effect conciliation, including voluntary
discontinuance of the discriminatory housing practice and adequate assurance of
future voluntary compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Nothing said
or done in the course of such informal endeavors may be made public by the
administrator, by the complainant or by any other party to the proceedings
without the written consent of all persons concerned.
   C.   Upon completion of the investigation and informal endeavors at
conciliation by the administrator, but within thirty (30) days of the filing of
the complaint with the administrator, if the efforts of the administrator to
secure voluntary compliance have been unsuccessful and if the administrator has
made a determination that a discriminatory housing practice has in fact
occurred, the administrator shall recommend to the city attorney that such
violations be prosecuted in the municipal court. With such recommendations, the
administrator shall refer his entire file to the city attorney. The city
attorney shall, within thirty (30) days after such referral, make a
determination as to whether to proceed with prosecution of such complaint in
municipal court.
If the city attorney determines to prosecute, he shall institute a complaint
and prosecute same to conclusion within thirty (30) days after such
determination or as soon thereafter as practicable.
   D.   This chapter is cumulative in its legal effect and is not in lieu of
any and all other legal remedies which the person aggrieved may pursue.
   E.   In the absence of a salaried city legal staff, the administrator shall
refer those individuals who wish to file private suit in local, state or
federal court for relief from discriminatory housing practices to West Texas
Legal Services in Brownwood for legal counsel. (1988 Code § 5-6-5)
5-8-6: UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to harass, threaten, harm, damage or
otherwise penalize any individual, group or business because he or they have
complied with the provisions of this chapter, because he or they have exercised
his or their rights under this chapter, or enjoyed the benefits of this
chapter, or because he or they have made a charge, testified or assisted in any
manner in any investigation, or in any proceeding hereunder or have made any
reports to the administrator. (1988 Code § 5-6-6)
5-8-7: COOPERATION WITH FEDERAL AGENCIES:
The administrator and the city attorney are authorized to cooperate with the
secretary of housing and urban development and the U.S. attorney general
pursuant to the provisions of title VII, fair housing act of 1968, public law
90-284, and may render such services to the secretary as they shall deem
appropriate to further the policies of this chapter. (1988 Code § 5-6-7)
5-8-8: EDUCATION AND PUBLIC INFORMATION:
In order to further the objectives of this chapter, the administrator may
conduct educational and public information programs. (1988 Code § 5-6-8)
5-8-9: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in a sum not to exceed two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each violation. Each day a violation continues
after passage of seventy five (75) days from date of the filing of the initial
complaint with the administrator shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense. (1988 Code § 5-6-9)
   B.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be enjoined by a
suit filed by the city in the municipal court, and this remedy is in addition
to any other penalty provision. (1988 Code § 5-6-9; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Traffic Laws Adopted
6-1-2: Authority To Establish Rules And Regulations
6-1-3: Police To Direct Traffic
6-1-4: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-1-5: Bus Stops And Taxicab Stands
6-1-6: Jake Brakes Prohibited
6-1-1: STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED:
This title does not and is not intended to embrace all traffic laws in force or
to be in force for the city, but all laws of the state of Texas now in force
and all future enactments of the legislature that may hereafter become law over
which the municipal court of the city has jurisdiction are made a part of this
title the same as though they were fully written herein, and are hereby
declared to be in full force and effect for all intents and purposes. (1988
Code §
6-1-1)
6-1-2: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council is hereby empowered to make and enforce regulations necessary
to make effective the provisions of this title and to make and enforce
temporary regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions. (1988 Code §
6-1-2)
6-1-3: POLICE TO DIRECT TRAFFIC:
Designated peace officers are hereby authorized to direct all traffic either in
person or by use of visible or audible signal in conformance with the
provisions of this title; provided, that in the event of a fire or other
emergency, or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, officers of the
fire department or peace officers may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of this title. (1988 Code §
6-1-3)
6-1-4: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Operation Of Vehicles On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   The operator of a vehicle on a roadway shall yield the right of way
to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the operators thereof sound audible signals by bell, siren or
exhaust whistle.
      2.   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle giving audible
signal by bell, siren or whistle, the operator of every other vehicle shall
immediately drive the same to a position as near as possible and parallel to
the right hand edge or curb of the street, clear of any intersection, and shall
stop and remain stopped until the authorized emergency vehicles shall have
passed unless otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   B.   Fire Department Vehicles; Fires:
      1.   Following Fire Apparatus: Upon the sounding of sirens or other
warning devices used upon or for fire apparatus, operators shall stop their
vehicles as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as possible, and shall
remain standing until all such fire apparatus and other authorized emergency
vehicles shall have passed. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any
vehicle to follow any fire apparatus in response to a fire alarm closer than
three hundred feet (300') to the rear of such apparatus. (1988 Code §
6-1-4)
      2.   Interfering With Fire Department Vehicles And Apparatus:
         a.   On and after the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful for
any person not a member of the fire company to catch hold of, climb onto, ride
on or with or do anything to retard any fire engine, firetruck, hosecart or
other fire apparatus however propelled or carried while proceeding to a fire or
supposed fire in response to the fire alarm or otherwise unless invited to do
so by the fire marshal or by the officer or firefighter in charge in the
absence of his superior.
         b.   While going to a fire or supposed fire, during the time the fire
is being extinguished, while replacing the hose or other apparatus and while
returning with a fire engine, firetruck, hosecart or other fire apparatus
however carried, the fire marshal, or in his absence the officer or firefighter
in charge, shall have actual control of such engine, truck, hosecart or other
apparatus and the premises thereof including the premises and location of any
fire or supposed fire, and any person by his presence or by molesting or
interfering with or holding to or moving the hose, hosecart, truck or engine or
other fire apparatus without the direct instruction of the fire marshal or in
his absence the officer or firefighter in charge, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and punishable as prescribed herein; and for the purpose of
enforcing this title, the fire marshal, and in his absence the officer or
firefighter in charge, is hereby appointed and confirmed as special police to
serve from the inception of any fire or the sounding of any fire alarm until
such fire is extinguished and the fire apparatus is returned to its place.
(1988 Code §
6-1-4; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   Driving Over Fire Hose: After the effective date hereof, it shall be
unlawful to drive any vehicle or animal upon or across the fire hose or other
fire apparatus or to trample or walk upon same.
      4.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate subsections B2 and B3 of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in any sum not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00). (1988
Code §
6-1-4)
6-1-5: BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS:
   A.   Authority To Designate; Signs Posted: The city council shall have the
right to establish bus stops and taxicab stands on such public streets in such
places as it shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to
the public, and the same shall be adequately designated with appropriate signs.
(1988 Code §
6-1-5; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Parking Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for the operator or driver
of any vehicle other than a bus or taxicab to stand or park in an officially
designated bus stop or taxicab stand; except, that the operator or driver of
any vehicle may stop momentarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading of passengers. (1988 Code §
6-1-5)
6-1-6: JAKE BRAKES PROHIBITED:
No device, commonly known as a Jacob's engine brake or engine retarder or
engine brake, shall be operated within the city limits. Any person violating
this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each such violation shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord.
081213-3, 8-12-2013)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Speed Restrictions
6-2-2: Parking Restrictions
6-2-1: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Any operator on a roadway shall operate the same at a careful and
prudent speed not greater than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to
the traffic, surface and width of the roadway, and of any other condition
existing, and no operator shall drive any vehicle upon a roadway at such a
speed as to endanger the life, limb or property of any person. Rates in excess
of the following are prima facie evidence of violation of this subsection:
      1.   In the business district: Thirty (30) miles per hour.
      2.   In the residential district: Thirty (30) miles per hour.
      3.   When passing a school building or the grounds thereof during school
recess or while children are going to or leaving school during opening or
closing hours: Twenty (20) miles per hour.
   B.   An engineering and traffic investigation has been made to determine the
maximum, reasonable and prudent speeds of the sections of the following
highways. It has been determined by this engineering and traffic investigation
that the maximum, reasonable and prudent speeds for these sections of the
highways described hereinbelow are as shown on maps attached to ordinance
passed December 4, 1986.
      1.   U.S. Highway 67, from the west city limits, at Station 1168 + 47, to
its intersection with U.S. Highway 84, at Station 1192 + 00, a distance of
0.446 mile approximately, as evidenced by the plat, which is hereby approved
and made a part hereof, dated October 14, 1986.
      2.   F.M. Highway 1176, from its intersection with U.S. Highways 67 and
84, beginning at Station 0 + .00 (mile point 1.000), southerly to Station 75.06
(mile point 2.42689) which is the south city limits of Santa Anna, for a
distance of 1.426 miles approximately, as evidenced by the plat, which is
hereby approved and made a part hereof, dated October 20, 1986.
      3.   F.M. Highway 1176, from its intersection with U.S. Highways 67 and
84, beginning at Station 0 + 00 (mile point 5.202), northerly to Station 10 +
70 (mile point 5.000) which is the north city limits of Santa Anna, for a
distance of 0.202 mile approximately, as evidenced by the plat, which is hereby
approved and made a part hereof, dated October 16, 1986. (1988 Code §
6-2-1)
6-2-2: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No Parking Places: It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle of any kind
at any time on a public street with a width of thirty feet (30') or less. Any
driver or owner of any vehicle who permits the parking or does actually park
such a vehicle on a public street with a width of thirty feet (30') or less
shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
(1988 Code §
6-2-2)
   B.   Parallel Or Angle Parking:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to diagonally park any vehicle on either side
of Wallis Avenue in the city from North Lee on the east to Seventh Street on
the west; provided, that any such vehicle may be parked parallel with the curb;
provided, that the right hand side of said vehicle is parked next to the curb.
Provided further, however, that trucks of all nature may only park along the
designated portion of Wallis Avenue in a parallel manner as above provided for
other vehicles and only while loading and unloading, and all such trucks are
prohibited from parking at any time along Wallis Avenue except while so loading
and unloading. Any violation of this subsection B1 shall be a misdemeanor, and
the owner- operator of such vehicle in violation hereof shall, upon conviction,
be fined not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      2.   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any motor or other
vehicle on Wallis Avenue in the city unless such vehicle is parked or left
standing parallel with the curb to the right of said vehicle and in such
position that neither of the right hand wheels of said vehicle shall be more
than eighteen inches (18") from said curb. Double parking shall not be allowed.
Any violation of this subsection B2 shall be a misdemeanor, and the owner-
operator of such vehicle in violation hereof shall, upon conviction, be fined
not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      3.   a. All motor vehicles parking or left standing on the following
portions of streets in the city:
First Street between the south line of Avenue B and the north line of Wallis
Avenue;
Second Street between the south line of Avenue B and the north line of North
Santa Fe;
Third Street between the south line of Avenue B and the north line of North
Santa Fe;
shall be parked and left standing next to the curb on the right side of the
street with the right wheel touching such curb and at an angle of no more than
forty five degrees (45°) diagonally, between the right side of said motor
vehicle and the adjacent curb or street line.
         b.   Upon all other streets and public highways of the city, all motor
vehicles so parked and left standing upon such public streets shall be parked
and left standing parallel to and adjacent to the right side of such street. In
determining the right side of the street, as used in this subsection B3b, the
same shall be determined with the reference to the driver or other person using
or parking such motor vehicle as facing the front of same.
         c.   Any person violating any provisions of this subsection B3 shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 061906-1, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 3
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Enforcement
6-3-2: Effect Of Signs On Violations
6-3-3: Impoundment Of Vehicles
6-3-4: Vehicle Ownership Prima Facie Proof
6-3-5: Violation; Penalty
6-3-1: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the designated peace officers of the city to enforce
the provisions of this title. (1988 Code §
6-3-1)
6-3-2: EFFECT OF SIGNS ON VIOLATIONS:
No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
the sign herein required is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to
be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does
not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective without
signs being erected to give notice thereof. (1988 Code §
6-3-2)
6-3-3: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Authority To Impound: Employees of the city, when properly authorized,
may remove a vehicle from a street or highway to the nearest garage or place of
safety, or to a garage designated or maintained by the city, under the
following circumstances:
      1.   When any such vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge or where
such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic.
      2.   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic, and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are,
by reason of physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable
to provide for its custody or removal.
      3.   When any vehicle is left unattended and is so illegally parked as to
constitute a definite hazard to the normal movement of traffic.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment:
      1.   Whenever a vehicle is removed from the street as provided in
subsection A of this section, and the officer or employee knows or is able to
ascertain the name and address of the owner thereof, such person shall
immediately give or cause to be given notice in writing to such owner of the
fact of such removal and the reasons therefor and of the place to which such
vehicle was removed.
      2.   Whenever a vehicle is removed from the street under this section and
the name of such owner is not known, or for any other reason the owner cannot
be notified, and in the event such vehicle is not returned to the owner within
three (3) days, then, and in that event, the city secretary shall send or cause
to be sent a written report of such removal by mail to the state department
whose duty it is to register motor vehicles, and shall file a copy with the
owner of any public garage in which such vehicle may be stored. Such notice
shall include a complete description of the vehicle, the date, time and place
from which removed, the reason for such removal and the name of the garage or
place where the vehicle is stored. (1988 Code §
6-3-3)
6-3-4: VEHICLE OWNERSHIP PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
If any motor vehicle is found upon any road in violation of any provision of
this title regulating the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles and the
identity of the operator cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose
name such vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
violation. (1988 Code §
6-3-4)
6-3-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this title or any rule or
regulation made in compliance herewith, where no other penalty is provided,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, exclusive of costs, unless by the laws of the state of
Texas, such act shall be declared to be a felony, in which case, the offense
shall be referred to the proper county or district officials. (1988 Code §
6-3-5)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Dedication Of Public Streets And Alleys
7-1-2: Official City Map
7-1-3: Excavations
7-1-4: Obstructions
7-1-5: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-1-1: DEDICATION OF PUBLIC STREETS AND ALLEYS:
All streets or alleys which:
   A.   Have been dedicated as such in any maps, general or official, of the
city or of any part thereof, or of any addition thereto or subdivision of any
part thereof, either before or after the incorporation thereof, or that may
hereafter be so dedicated;
   B.   Have been donated to the public as such in the city;
   C.   Belong to Coleman County and are in the city limits at the time of the
incorporation of the same;
   D.   Are designated as such on the official map of the city; and
   E.   Have been or are now in use by the public as such are hereby declared
public streets and alleys of the city. (1988 Code §
7-1-1)
7-1-2: OFFICIAL CITY MAP:
The map of the city, as recorded in the county deed record in volume 67 and
pages 434 and 435, is hereby adopted and declared to be the official map of the
city. (1988 Code §
7-1-2)
7-1-3: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Application To Excavate: On and after the effective date hereof, it
shall be unlawful for any person to excavate in or across any street within the
city limits without first making and filing a written application with the city
secretary, stating in said application the location, nature, extent and purpose
of such proposed excavation, and the approximate date when such work will
begin, and the length of time required to complete said work.
   B.   Bond Requirements: The applicant shall file with such application a
bond, with two (2) or more good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
city secretary, in an amount of not less than double the estimated cost of
restoring said street to as good condition as before such excavation. Said bond
shall be payable to the city and provide that if the applicant fails to so
restore said street, the sureties thereon shall be liable for the cost of
restoring same. Upon the approval of said bond, the city secretary shall issue
to the applicant a permit authorizing the excavation of such street.
   C.   Exemptions: Nothing herein shall require the city or any contractor of
the city constructing or repairing any street within the city limits to obtain
a permit.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section within
the corporate limits of the city shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding
one hundred dollars ($100.00). (1988 Code §
7-1-3)
7-1-4: OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Street And Alley Obstructions: It shall be unlawful for any person to
obstruct any street or alley by erecting or permitting to be erected any fence
or fences across or on any part of such street or alley, or any boxes,
improvements, wares or merchandise of any kind whatsoever thereon, in such a
manner as to interfere with the full and free use of such streets and alleys or
any part thereof. (1988 Code §
7-1-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Sidewalk Obstructions: It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct
any sidewalk in the city by placing or permitting to be placed any boxes,
wares, merchandise or other obstruction on the same, or to use more than three
feet (3') of such sidewalk for the display of goods or merchandise of any
character.
   C.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be punishable in any sum
not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00). (1988 Code §
7-1-4)
7-1-5: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Billposting: It shall be unlawful for any person to post or in any
manner attach any bill or bills, advertisements, paper, sign or written or
printed matter, pictures or posters of any kind whatsoever upon any utility
pole or other structure of any kind in any of the public streets or alleys of
the city or, without the consent of the owner, to post or attach any such bill
or bills, advertisements, paper, sign or written or printed matter, pictures or
posters of any kind whatsoever upon any building or structure of any kind
within the limits of the city. (1988 Code §
7-1-5; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Riding Bicycles Or Skateboards Or Roller Skating On Sidewalks: It shall
be unlawful for any person to ride any bicycles or skateboards or to roller
skate on any sidewalk in the city.
   C.   Camping: On and after the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful
for any person to camp in or upon any of the streets of the city.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Any person found guilty of a violation of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00). (1988 Code §
7-1-5)
CHAPTER 2
USE OF CERTAIN CITY PROPERTIES
SECTION:
7-2-1: City Lakes
7-2-2: Gary James Memorial Park And Community Civic Center
7-2-1: CITY LAKES:
   A.   Enforcement Of Provisions: The city does hereby assume police control
over the two (2) city owned lakes, being all those lands, parks and grounds
with the waters and lakes thereon owned by and lying outside the city limits
and known, respectively, as Lake Santa Anna and Lake Sealy. (1988 Code §
7-2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Prohibited Acts And Conditions:
      1.   Picnicking: On and after the effective date hereof, it shall be
unlawful for any person or persons to picnic on the city lakes or any adjacent
property to the lakes.
      2.   Damage Or Injury To Property: Any person who shall wilfully or
mischievously injure or destroy any real or personal property of any
description on the grounds of either of said lakes, and of a value of fifty
dollars ($50.00) or more, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      3.   Pollution:
         a.   It shall be unlawful to deposit, cause to fall upon or wilfully
leave any fish, fowl, fresh fruit, vegetable, fecal or other organic matter
subject to decay in the water or on the grounds of either of said lakes and
within one hundred feet (100') of the shoreline and in drainage areas into
either of said lakes.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling any
premises to allow any polluted matter, liquid or otherwise, from any source, to
be placed in such a manner as may reach the waters of either of said lakes,
directly or through tributaries, and such act is hereby declared a nuisance.
         c.   No dead animals or any part thereof, fish, decayed vegetables or
food, filthy ashes, garbage, offal or rubbish of any kind which, by its decay
or putrefaction, could or would become offensive shall be placed or permitted
to be placed in such a manner as will allow same to drain into either of said
lakes, directly or through tributaries; and each and every such act is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and prohibited and made unlawful.
      4.   Livestock At Large: Any person allowing any stock, horses, cows,
sheep, hogs or any other stock to run at large on city lake property in the
drainage area, or to drink from the waters of either lake, or to wade or stand
in the water of either lake shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      5.   Swimming, Diving Or Skiing: It shall be unlawful for any person to
swim, dive or ski in any waters contained in either of said lakes.
      6.   Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his
possession a firearm within the boundaries of any lands owned by the city
located adjacent to either of said lakes.
      7.   Fireworks: It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his
possession fireworks of any type within the boundaries of any lands owned by
the city located adjacent to either of said lakes.
      8.   Violations; Penalties:
         a.   Whoever violates any of the provisions of subsections C2, C3 and
C4 of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         b.   Any person who shall violate any provisions of subsections C5, C6
and C7 of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).
(1988 Code § 7-2-3; amd. 2016 Code)
7-2-2: GARY JAMES MEMORIAL PARK AND COMMUNITY CIVIC CENTER:
   A.   Prohibited Hours; Exceptions: It shall be unlawful for any person to be
or remain in Gary James Memorial Park, in the Old Armory Civic Center, or any
city property surrounding the center between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:
00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. unless:
      1.   Such person is a member of a group or organization which has first
obtained a permit from the park and armory committee. Such permit shall be
granted if it appears that the group or organization will not interfere with
the general use of the park or civic center by the public and if the group or
organization meets all other conditions and regulations for use of Gary James
Memorial Park or the Old Armory Civic Center as enacted by the city; or
      2.   Such person has rented an overnight camping facility provided by the
park and armory committee. (Ord. 071309-1, 7-13-2009)
   B.   Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or
knowingly possess, carry, or use a firearm in Gary James Memorial Park, in the
Old Armory Civic Center, or on any city property surrounding the center unless
specifically authorized by the park and armory committee of the city.
   C.   Motor Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or use
any motor vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, or motorcycle in Gary James Memorial
Park or on any city property surrounding the center unless on designated
roadways or unless specifically authorized by the park and armory committee of
the city. (Ord. 071309-1, 7-13-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Animals:
      1.   Owners or handlers of dogs or other animals shall keep such animals
under physical restraint at all times while in Gary James Memorial Park or on
the city property surrounding the Old Armory Civic Center.
      2.   No animals shall be allowed inside the Old Armory Civic Center.
(Ord. 071309-1, 7-13-2009)
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any of
the provisions or terms of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be subjected to a fine not to exceed the sum of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense, except where a different penalty
has been established by state law for such offense. (Ord. 071309-1, 7-13-2009;
amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A.  WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-3A-1: Waterworks Department
7-3A-2: Permit To Use Or Connect
7-3A-3: Application For Water Service
7-3A-4: City To Tap, Lay Pipes; Costs
7-3A-5: Water Meters
7-3A-6: Waste Of Water Prohibited
7-3A-7: Unlawful Use Of Water
7-3A-8: Nonliability Of City
7-3A-9: Rules And Regulations
7-3A-1: WATERWORKS DEPARTMENT:
The waterworks of the city shall constitute a separate department of the
financial administration of the city government; and all revenue arising
therefrom and all expenses connected therewith shall be kept separate and apart
from other financial transactions of the city; and the surplus, if any, arising
from city waterworks and the deficiency, if any, shall be adjusted from time to
time by order of the city council. (1988 Code §
7-3A-1)
7-3A-2: PERMIT TO USE OR CONNECT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or permit to be made any
connections with the main or service pipes of the city waterworks system or to
turn on or use the water of said system without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the city water department.
   B.   This section shall be cumulative and supplementary of other ordinances
pertaining to furnishing of water by the city, and the city shall discontinue
water service to any person failing or refusing, after notice, to comply with
the terms of this section.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine in any sum
not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00). (1988 Code §
7-3A-2)
7-3A-3: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE:
Any person desiring water shall make application to the city secretary upon a
form to be furnished by the city, stating in said application all facts
necessary to an ascertainment of the amount of dues to be paid thereby for such
water. The use shall be only for the purposes stated in the application and no
other, unless written permission is obtained from the mayor or city secretary.
Upon any violation of this section, the water of such person shall be shut off
and shall not be turned on again until said person shall have paid the
additional charge and the further sum of fifty dollars ($50.00). (1988 Code §
7-3A-3; amd. 2016 Code)
7-3A-4: CITY TO TAP, LAY PIPES; COSTS:
The city will lay all mains and put in the tappings and all service pipes from
the main to the meter, and the expenses of making connections and putting in
pipes shall be paid by the consumer, and the money for the payment of same
shall accompany the application for water connections; provided, that where
persons are so situated that no water mains or pipes with which they can
connect are near them and none can be reached without great expense, the city
council will make special arrangements. (1988 Code §
7-3A-4; amd. 2016 Code)
7-3A-5: WATER METERS:
   A.   Persons desiring to use meters shall apply to the city council which
shall fix rates for same.
   B.   All water meters in the city connected with the city water lines are to
be owned and operated by the city. (1988 Code §
7-3A-5)
7-3A-6: WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITED:
No person within the limits of the city shall at any time allow water to run
through any pipe, faucet or other connection with the city water main
maintained thereby except when such water is in actual use and is being used
for a purpose for which said user has paid the city the price provided by the
ordinances of the city; nor shall any such person allow or permit anyone under
his control to play with or use such water for any other purpose except as
above specified. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined in a sum of not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) and shall be subject to having his water shut off as
provided in the ordinances of the city relating to such matters. (1988 Code §
7-3A-6)
7-3A-7: UNLAWFUL USE OF WATER:
No person within the limits of the city shall use water from any hydrant,
faucet or pipe of any other person, either with or without the consent of such
person, without first paying the rate that would be required of such person
were the person so using or maintaining a hydrant and water connections for his
own use; nor shall any person maintaining a water connection with the city
allow any other person to use water from the hydrant or connection so
maintained unless such person so using water from the connection of another
shall have paid the rate required by the city and obtained a permit from the
city secretary describing the place and hydrant which shall be so used by more
than one person. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined in a sum of not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00), and shall be subject to having his water shut off as
provided in the ordinances of the city relating to such matters. (1988 Code §
7-3A-7)
7-3A-8: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
The city shall not be liable for any damage by reason of the breaking or
leaking of any pipe or service cock, and no consumer is guaranteed any specific
quantity of water. (1988 Code §
7-3A-8)
7-3A-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city reserves the right to alter or amend the rates charged for water, but
no such change shall affect the rates for the time for which any consumer has
already paid. The city also reserves the right to alter or amend this article
and the requirements upon the consumer herein, and such changes shall be
immediately effective upon all contracts for water in force and to be
thereafter made. (1988 Code §
7-3A-9)
ARTICLE B.  WATER CONSERVATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3B-1: Policy And Purpose
7-3B-2: Notice Requirements
7-3B-3: Enforcement And Penalty
7-3B-4: Drought Contingency Measures
7-3B-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
In cases of extreme drought, periods of abnormally high usage, system
contamination, or extended reduction in ability to supply water due to
equipment failure, temporary restrictions may be instituted to limit
nonessential water usage. The purpose of the drought contingency plan (plan) is
to encourage customer conservation in order to maintain supply, storage, or
pressure or to comply with the requirements of a court, government agency or
other authority. (Ord. 061013-2, 6-10-2013)
7-3B-2: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Public notice will be provided prior to implementation or termination
of each stage of the water restriction program. Notice must be given to each
customer seventy two (72) hours prior to the start of water restriction. The
public notice to customers will contain the following information:
      1.   The date restrictions will begin;
      2.   The circumstances that triggered the restrictions;
      3.   The stages of response and explanation of the restrictions to be
implemented; and
      4.   An explanation of the consequences for violations. (Ord. 061013-2,
6-10-2013)
   B.   The utility must notify the Texas commission on environmental quality
(TCEQ) by telephone at (512)239-4691, or electronic mail at
watermon@tceq.state.tx.us prior to implementing stage 3 and must notify in
writing the public drinking water section at MC - 155, P.O. Box 13087, Austin,
TX 78711-3087 within five (5) working days of implementation including a copy
of the utility's restriction notice. The utility must file a status report of
its restriction program with the TCEQ at the initiation and termination of
mandatory water use restrictions (i.e., stages 3 and 4). (Ord. 061013-2, 6-10-
2013; amd. 2016 Code)
7-3B-3: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   First violation: The customer will be notified by written notice of his
specific violation.
   B.   Subsequent violations:
      1.   After written notice, the utility may install a flow restricting
device in the line to limit the amount of water which will pass through the
meter in a twenty four (24) hour period. The utility may charge the customer
for the actual cost of installing and removing a flow restricting device, not
to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   After written notice, the utility may discontinue service at the
meter for a period of seven (7) days, or until the end of the calendar month,
whichever is less. The normal reconnect fee of the utility will apply for
restoration of service. (Ord. 061013-2, 6-10-2013)
      3.   Any person violating any provision of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a
fine in an amount not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) per day. (Ord.
061013-2, 6-10-2013; amd. 2016 Code)
7-3B-4: DROUGHT CONTINGENCY MEASURES:
This article implements the rules and regulations whereby water can be
partially or totally restricted, as deemed appropriate by the mayor,
necessitated by the degree of the emergency.
   A.   Minor conditions (stage 1):
      1.   Formal public notification by city officials of the alert condition
and ask utility customers to voluntarily limit the amount of water used.
      2.   Initiate public information efforts.
      3.   Notify major commercial and industrial water users.
      4.   Increase leak detection and repair efforts.
   B.   Severe conditions (stage 2):
      1.   Target: The use of water to be reduced by six percent (6%).
      2.   Triggers: The water utility will implement stage 2 when any one of
the selected triggers is reached:
Supply based triggers:
      1.   Brown County water improvement district moves to stage 2.
      2.   Brookesmith special utility district moves to stage 2.
Production or distribution limitations.
      3.   Restrictions: The following water use restrictions shall apply to
all customers:
         a.   Continuation of stage 1 actions.
         b.   All personal, nonhousehold water use is restricted between the
hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and between six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on designated days defined as:
            (1)   Odd numbered residences may water on Monday and Wednesday.
            (2)   Even numbered residences may water on Tuesday and Thursday.
            (3)   All residences may water on Saturday.
            (4)   No outdoor watering on Friday and Sunday.
   C.   Critical conditions (stage 3):
      1.   Target: Achieve a ten percent (10%) to fifteen percent (15%)
reduction in daily water demand.
      2.   Triggers: The water utility will implement stage 3 when any one of
the selected triggers is reached:
Supply based triggers:
      1.   Brown County water improvement district moves to stage 3.
      2.   Brookesmith special utility district moves to stage 3.
Production or distribution limitations.
(Ord. 061013-2, 6-10-2013)
      3.   Restrictions: The following water use restrictions shall apply to
all customers:
         a.   Trees and flowerbeds may be watered with buckets or handheld
hoses, and watering shall be limited to Mondays for water customers with a
street address ending with the number 1, 2, or 3; Wednesdays for water
customers with a street address ending with the number 4, 5, or 6; and Fridays
for customers with a street address ending with the number 7, 8, 9 or 0.
Watering is further limited to the hours between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and
ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and between six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. on designated watering days.
         b.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat, trailer,
airplane or other vehicle is prohibited except on designated watering days
between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and between six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Such washing, when allowed,
shall be done with a handheld bucket or a handheld hose equipped with a
positive shutoff nozzle for quick rinses. Vehicle washing may be done at any
time on the immediate premises of a commercial car wash or commercial service
station.
         c.   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a recirculation system.
         d.   Use of water from hydrants or flush valves shall be limited to
maintaining public health, safety, and welfare.
         e.   Restaurants are asked not to serve water unless asked for by the
patron.
         f.   The following uses of water are defined as nonessential and are
prohibited:
            (1)   Wash down of any sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking
lots, tennis courts, or other hard surfaced areas;
            (2)   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for
purposes other than immediate fire protection and sanitation;
            (3)   Use of water for dust control;
            (4)   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street;
            (5)   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a reasonable
period after having been given notice directing the repair of such leak(s); and
            (6)   Any waste of water. (Ord. 061013-2, 6-10-2013; amd. 2016
Code)
   D.   Critical conditions (stage 4):
      1.   Target: Achieve a twenty five percent (25%) reduction in daily water
demand.
      2.   Triggers: The water utility will implement stage 4 when any one of
the selected triggers is reached:
   Supply based triggers:
       Brown County water improvement district moves to state 4 or Brookesmith
special utility district moves to stage 4.
    Supply contamination (may trigger a boil water notice).
       When imminent or actual failure of a major component of the system which
would cause an immediate health or safety hazard.
      3.   Public Announcement: Upon initiation and termination of stage 4, the
utility will make a public announcement to its customers. Notice to TCEQ is
required.
      4.   Requirements For Termination: Stage 4 of the plan may be rescinded
when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for
a period of three (3) consecutive days. Upon termination of stage 4, stage 3
becomes operative.
      5.   Operations Measures: The utility shall visually inspect lines and
repair leaks on a daily basis. Flushing is prohibited except for dead end
mains. Emergency interconnects or alternative supply arrangements shall be
initiated. All meters shall be read as often as necessary to ensure compliance
with this program for the benefit of all the customers.
      6.   Mandatory Water Use Restrictions: All outside use of water is
absolutely prohibited except for sanitary cleaning of food service areas where
handheld hoses with shutoff valves and buckets shall be used. Greenhouses or
nurseries must use handheld hoses with shutoff valves and buckets as much as
possible. There shall not be any runoff or standing water.
   E.   System outage or supply contamination (stage 5): Notify TCEQ regional
office immediately. (Ord. 061013-2, 6-10-2013)
ARTICLE C.  SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-3C-1: Connection Required
7-3C-2: Deposit To Connect
7-3C-3: Septic Tanks And Cesspools
7-3C-4: Privies Prohibited In Certain Areas
7-3C-1: CONNECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   Every owner of a building or part thereof occupied by people for any
purpose any part of the day or night situated on any city block in the city
where a public sewer is laid and maintained within one hundred fifty feet
(150') of such building or any building on acreage tract where buildings are
within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a public sewer, and having no water
closet or privy connected with said sewer, shall, within thirty (30) days of
the effective date hereof, install within said building or part of building
used aforesaid or upon the premises where same is situated, a water closet or
closets and have same connected with the sewer. The work done in connection
therewith and all materials used shall comply with the sewer code of the state.
   B.   In all cases where a privy or water closet is now or may hereafter be
connected with the public sewer, the owner controlling the same shall cause
such privy or closets to be supplied with water for flushing, which shall be
delivered from a tank. Said tank shall hold not less than three (3) gallons of
water at each flushing and be refilled with water at a pressure of not less
than fifteen (15) pounds per square inch. (1988 Code §
7-3B-1; amd. 2016 Code)
7-3C-2: DEPOSIT TO CONNECT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tap or make connection with the city's
sewer lines or sewer system without first submitting a deposit as established
by the city council. Any person who shall violate this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less
than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each
such offense. (1988 Code §
7-3B-2)
7-3C-3: SEPTIC TANKS AND CESSPOOLS:
   A.   Permit Required; Inspection:
      1.   All septic tanks or cesspools shall be condemned unless the person
installing same obtains a permit from the city secretary, and said septic tank
or cesspool must be inspected and accepted by the proper authorities before
being sealed.
      2.   Any person, persons, contractor or contractors failing to secure
such permit or to have said septic tank or cesspool inspected before being
sealed shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction therefor,
shall be fined not less than fifteen do11ars ($15.00) nor more than one hundred
do1lars ($100.00).
   B.   Construction Specifications: In order to protect the general health of
the citizens of the community, all septic tanks and cesspools must be built
according to state health specifications. (1988 Code §
4-5-1)
7-3C-4: PRIVIES PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS:
   A.   The city council finds that the city was taxed in 1909 with a bond
issue for the purpose of establishing a sewage system within the business
district and the residential district of the city with full intention and
belief that the people or property owners adjoining this system would connect
with same and by doing so relieve the city of a very much unsanitary condition,
and the present city council has a perfect right to believe and does believe
that that was the belief and intention of the citizens of the city at that time
as well as now. Therefore, all closets or privies in the districts herein
described are public nuisances and unsanitary.
   B.   All persons found guilty of maintaining or causing to be used a dry
closet or privy will be contrary to this section and shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00);
provided, that each day's failure to comply with this section shall constitute
a separate offense. (1988 Code §
7-3B-3)
CHAPTER 4
UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Water, Sewer And Sanitation Rates And Charges
7-4-1-1:    Service Rates Established
7-4-1-2:    Tapping And Connection Fees
7-4-1-3:    Meter Deposit, Service Agreement And ID Required
7-4-1-4:    Additional Fees
7-4-1-5:    Bills For Service; Delinquencies
7-4-1-6:    Termination Of Service; Reconnection
7-4-1-7:    Appeal Hearings
7-4-1-8:    Effect Of Provisions
7-4-2: Electric Rates And Charges
7-4-1: WATER, SEWER AND SANITATION RATES AND CHARGES:
7-4-1-1: SERVICE RATES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Water Service Rates:
      1.   Service Inside City Limits:
         a.   Metered Water Users: On April 1, 2016, the rates for water
service provided by the city to each water meter customer shall be as follows:
            (1)   For the first two thousand (2,000) gallons as a minimum
charge: Thirty six dollars fifty cents ($36.50) per month.
            (2)   For each additional one thousand (1,000) gallons will be six
dollars fifty cents ($6.50) per thousand:
 
Number Of Gallons Used Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
2,100 up to 12,000     $6.50
12,100 up to 20,000    7.50
20,100 up to 30,000    8.50
30,100 and above       9.50
 
These rates will be in effect during stages 3, 4 and 5 of the drought
contingency plan. (Ord. 031416, 3-14-2016)
         b.   Public Housing:
Santa Anna Housing Units Minimum Gallons And Rate Rate Per 1,000 Gallons After
Authority Address                                 Minimum
Santa Anna Housing        Units Minimum Gallons And Rate Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
Authority Address                                        After Minimum
#134, 703 Avenue B        9     18,000 ($328.50)         $6.50
#177, high rise           19    38,000 ($693.00)         6.50
#178, office              1     2,000 ($36.50)           6.50
#217, N. Santa Fe         8     16,000 ($292.00)         6.50
#254, Bowie and Bannister 8     16,000 ($292.00)         6.50
#286, 505-511 S. Santa Fe 4     8,000 ($146.00)          6.50
#322, Willis Avenue and   6     12,000 ($219.00)         6.50
3rd
#338, Willis Avenue and   8     16,000 ($292.00)         6.50
4th
 
 
Mira Vista Apartments Units Minimum Gallons And Rate Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
Address                                              After Minimum
#1, Jefferson         6     12,000 ($219.00)         $6.50
#2, Jefferson         6     12,000 ($219.00)         6.50
#3, South Lee         6     12,000 ($219.00)         6.50
#4, South Lee         6     12,000 ($219.00)         6.50
 
(Ord. 031416, 3-14-2016; amd. 2016 Code)
         c.   Businesses Without Irrigation Or Landscape Watering:
            (1)   For the first two thousand (2,000) gallons as a minimum
charge: Thirty six dollars fifty cents ($36.50) per month.
            (2)   For each additional one thousand (1,000) gallons: Six dollars
fifty cents ($6.50) per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      2.   Service Outside City Limits: The water rates for customers outside
the city limits of the city of Santa Anna, Texas, shall be the same rate for
the minimum charge and the same rate per one thousand (1,000) gallons
thereafter used as set forth in subsection A1 of this section.
   B.   Sewer Service Rates: On and after the effective date hereof, the rates
for sewer services provided by the city to each customer shall be as follows:
  Rate Per Month
                                                           Rate Per Month
Residential and commercial users (other than those below):
 As a minimum charge                                      $12.00
 For each additional 1,000 gallons of water used          2.00
 With a maximum charge of                                 24.00
Other sewer rates:
 Apartments and housing authority                         $12.00 per unit
 Car washes                                               $ 40.00
 Funeral homes                                            40.00
 Grocery stores                                           15.00
 Grocery with cooking facilities                          40.00
 Laundries                                                40.00
 Motels                                                   75.00
 Nursing homes                                            400.00
 Restaurants                                              40.00
 Schools                                                  400.00
 
   C.   Sanitation Service Rates: On and after the effective date hereof, the
rates for sanitation services provided by the city to each customer address
shall be as follows:
      1.   Polycarts:
         a.   One polycart: Eighteen dollars fifty cents ($18.50) each per
month, plus tax.
         b.   Any additional polycarts: Nine dollars twenty five cents ($9.25)
each per month, plus tax.
      2.   Dumpsters:
         a.   Four (4) cubic yard dumpster: Ninety six dollars ($96.00) per
month each, plus tax.
         b.   Six (6) cubic yard dumpster: One hundred seventy five dollars
($175.00) per month each, plus tax.
   D.   Vacation Rates: Residential customers planning to leave a residential
property unoccupied for more than one billing cycle may notify the city utility
department in writing and request an agreement for modified utility rates
during the vacation period. Any agreement for modified rates shall not be
retroactive and will be discontinued should the property be occupied during the
period of agreement. The following requirements shall apply:
      1.   A written agreement must be signed for the vacation rates prior to
the rates being applicable.
      2.   The applicant must be gone for an entire billing cycle. The vacation
rate will be applicable to any entire billing cycle and may not be prorated
over any portion of a billing cycle.
      3.   The agreement must be renewed every six (6) months to remain
applicable.
      4.   Failure to notify the city that the vacation rate should no longer
apply as the property is being utilized will result in discontinuance of the
vacation rate as well as future ineligibility for vacation rates in the future
to the specific customer.
      5.   The vacation rate shall be thirty six dollars fifty cents ($36.50)
provided the property does not utilize more than two thousand (2,000) gallons
of water during the applicable billing cycle. The rate includes no charge for
sewer and there will be no sanitation service during the time period authorized
for the vacation rate. If sanitation is needed, polycarts and dumpsters will be
an extra charge, see subsection C of this section. Should the property exceed
the usage of two thousand (2,000) gallons of water in any billing cycle in
which there is an agreement to apply the vacation rate, the customer shall be
responsible for the full costs of utilities applicable to the property. (Ord.
031416, 3-14-2016)
7-4-1-2: TAPPING AND CONNECTION FEES:
   A.   Water Taps: The tapping fee for connection to the waterworks system
shall be one hundred seventy five dollars ($175.00) without cutoff and one
hundred eighty eight dollars ($188.00) with cutoff.
   B.   Sewer Connections: The connection fee to the sewer system shall be one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (1988 Code §
7-4-1-2)
7-4-1-3: METER DEPOSIT, SERVICE AGREEMENT AND ID REQUIRED:
A meter deposit of one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00) will be paid at time of
connection of services, due and payable before services are connected. A
guarantee by another customer or by this customer at another location will not
be accepted in lieu of a deposit. If a customer has an outstanding balance on
an account with the city, the outstanding balance and a one hundred twenty
dollar ($120.00) deposit shall be paid in full before services are connected.
If the city of Santa Anna can determine that the customer has an outstanding
balance in a previous city, the customer may provide proof of payment of that
balance and a one hundred twenty dollar ($120.00) deposit. Otherwise, the
deposit will be two hundred forty dollars ($240.00). A service agreement must
be filled out and signed by the person responsible for paying the account, and
a photo ID will be required. (Ord. 031416, 3-14-2016)
7-4-1-4: ADDITIONAL FEES:
   A.   To help reimburse the city for services that are provided, the
following rates will apply:
      1.   Collection fee for each returned check or denied bank draft: Thirty
dollars ($30.00).
      2.   For broken seal-cost (meter cutoff valve): Sixty five dollars
($65.00).
      3.   Transfer of services to new location: Twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      4.   Broken meter or shutoff valve: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   These fees and damage costs will be assessed as follows:
      1.   Residents will be charged if active account.
      2.   Owner will be charged if inactive account.
      3.   Charge will be added to bill and statement will be sent outlining
charges. (Ord. 031416, 3-14-2016)
7-4-1-5: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
On and after the effective date hereof, each monthly account owed to the city
of Santa Anna, Texas, by any person, firm or corporation for water services
furnished during the month shall be and is hereby declared due and payable on
or before the fifteenth day of the month or it shall become delinquent on the
sixteenth day of the month, and there shall be assessed and collected by the
city on each delinquent account a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount
owing thereon. Failure to pay when statement is due (before or on the twenty
fifth day of the month) will result in disconnected service on the twenty sixth
of the month. Partial payment will not delay disconnection. If the due date
falls on a weekend or a holiday, the due date will be the following business
day. (Ord. 031416, 3-14-2016)
7-4-1-6: TERMINATION OF SERVICE; RECONNECTION:
   A.   Notice To Customers: A customer whose account is subject to termination
or suspension for nonpayment of account shall be given written notice of
proposed termination. The notice shall:
      1.   Be sent by mail to the billing address of the customer.
      2.   State the reason for the proposed termination.
      3.   State the date on which water service will be terminated unless
payment is received on or before said date.
   B.   Service Reconnect Fee: A customer whose service is disconnected for
nonpayment of a delinquent account pursuant to the provisions of this section
7-4-1 shall be assessed a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for reconnection of
service. The meter deposit must also be increased to a total of one hundred
twenty dollars ($120.00). If customer requests reconnect after five o'clock (5:
00) P.M. on a weekday or on a weekend or city observed holiday, the fee will be
one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 031416, 3-14-2016)
7-4-1-7: APPEAL HEARINGS:
Appeal hearings shall be conducted as follows:
   A.   Appeals: A customer objecting to the actions, policies, or decisions of
the utility customer service office may appeal to a panel consisting of the
mayor, one city council member and the utility supervisor in person and attempt
to resolve the problem administratively. A document shall be prepared to
indicate the reason for the appeal, the persons present during the meeting, and
the decision of the panel. (Ord. 031416, 3-14-2016)
   B.   Panel Decision: The panel shall be the sole judge of the evidence,
credibility of witnesses, and the facts, as well as the rules and regulations
of the city of Santa Anna. The panel shall render their decision at the close
of the hearing or as soon as possible thereafter. Upon request of the customer,
the panel shall render their decision in writing. (Ord. 031416, 3-14-2016; amd.
2016 Code)
   C.   Corrective Action: In the event the panel's decision is in favor of the
customer in whole or in part, they shall instruct the utility customer service
office what corrective action shall be taken, and the utility customer service
office shall take such action within three (3) working days. To the extent that
the panel finds the disputed billing to be accurate and due in whole or in
part, the customer shall be allowed three (3) business days to pay such amount
or until the due date of the billing, whichever is longer.
   D.   Continuance Of Utility Service: During the pendency of the appeal, the
customer's utility service shall be continued if not terminated prior to a
hearing. In the event utility service was disconnected prior to a hearing,
utility service will be restored upon payment of the current connection service
fee, which fee, in the event the panel's decision is in favor of the customer
in whole or in part, shall be either refunded to the customer or credited on
his bill.
   E.   City's Right To Terminate: The failure of the city of Santa Anna to
comply with any time provision contained herein shall in no way result in the
city's waiving its right to seek termination of service for the reasons
specified in this section
7-4-1. (Ord. 031416, 3-14-2016)
7-4-1-8: EFFECT OF PROVISIONS:
This section
7-4-1 shall be in force from and after its passage, and the rates herein
established shall be utilized in the computation of all statements of the
current billing. (1988 Code §
7-4-1-7)
7-4-2: ELECTRIC RATES AND CHARGES:
The charges for electricity and electric service within the city shall be those
set forth in the electric rate schedules, riders, policies and service rules
and regulations previously filed with the city and authorized to be charged by
the city pursuant to proceedings before the city council. (1988 Code §
7-4-2)
TITLE 8
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Code Adopted
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-3: Fire Limits
8-1-4: Disclaimer Of Liability
8-1-1: CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, use and
occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and structures, including
permits and penalties, that certain code known as the international residential
code, 2015 edition, recommended and published by the International Code
Council, Inc., and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which not less than three (3)
copies have been and are now filed in the office of the city secretary, and the
same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein, and from the effective date hereof, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling in the construction of all buildings and structures contained
within the corporate limits of the city. (1988 Code §
8-1-1; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Wherever the following words or terms are used in the code adopted herein, they
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CORPORATION COUNSEL: The attorney for the city of Santa Anna, Coleman County,
Texas.
MUNICIPALITY: The city of Santa Anna, Coleman County, Texas. (1988 Code §
8-1-2; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-3: FIRE LIMITS:
The fire limits of the city are hereby established as follows:
Beginning at a point at the center lines of Wallis Avenue (U.S. Highway 67) and
Pearson Street; thence north one hundred sixty feet (160'); thence west three
hundred fifty feet (350') to the center line of Lee Street; thence north one
hundred thirty feet (130') to the south boundary of Avenue B; thence west one
thousand two hundred feet (1,200') to the center line of Third Street; thence
south one hundred thirty feet (130'); thence west along the center line of an
alley two thousand eight hundred twenty feet (2,820') to the east boundary of
Matthews Street; thence south three hundred forty feet (340') to a point;
thence east four thousand three hundred eighty feet (4,380') to the center line
of Pearson Street; thence north one hundred sixty feet (160') to the point of
beginning.
(1988 Code §
8-1-4)
8-1-4: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The building official or any employee charged with the enforcement of the code
adopted herein, acting in good faith and without malice for the city in the
discharge of his duties, shall not thereby render himself personally liable,
and he is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that may
accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or by reason of
any act or omission in the discharge of his duties. Any suit brought against
the building official or employees because of such act or omission performed by
him in the enforcement of any provisions in the code adopted herein, shall be
defended by the legal department of the city until final termination of the
proceedings. (1988 Code § 8-1-5; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Code Adopted
8-2-2: Compliance With And Interpretation Of Code
8-2-1: CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by the city council for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal and maintenance
of electrical wiring and apparatus, including permits and penalties, that
certain electrical code known as the national electrical code standard of the
National Board Of Fire Underwriters, being the 2014 edition thereof and the
whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified or amended, of which not less than three (3) copies have been and are
now filed in the office of the city secretary, and the same is hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and from the effective
date hereof, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction,
alteration, maintenance or removal of all electric wiring and apparatus within
the corporate limits of the city. (1988 Code §
8-2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
8-2-2: COMPLIANCE WITH AND INTERPRETATION OF CODE:
All electrical construction, materials, appliances, motors, heating devices and
apparatus used in connection with electrical work and the operation of
electrical apparatus within the city shall conform to the rules and
requirements of the national electrical code, 2014 edition, when work is
performed or equipment and apparatus installed. (1988 Code §
8-2-2; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Code Adopted
8-3-2: Cross Connections
8-3-3: Penalties
8-3-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The provisions and regulations of the international plumbing code, 2015
edition, and amendments thereto, are made a part of this chapter by reference,
three (3) certified copies of which shall be on file in the office of the city
secretary; and shall extend over and govern the installation of all plumbing
installed, altered or repaired within or without the city wherever water and/or
sewage service originating from the municipal water and/or sewer system is
furnished. (1988 Code §
8-3-1; amd. 2016 Code)
8-3-2: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
The city water department and/or the city plumbing inspector is hereby
authorized to discontinue or cause to be discontinued all water service or
services to any and all premises, lands, buildings or structures where it is
found that an immediate hazard exists to the purity or potability of the city
water supply. The city water department and/or the city plumbing inspector is
hereby authorized and directed to take such steps as necessary to determine all
potential hazards to the purity or potability of the city water supply which
exists. Upon determining said potential hazards, it shall be the duty of said
department and/or said inspector to immediately cause notice to be issued to
the owner or such other person responsible for said premises, specifying said
hazards, and notifying said person that in the event said hazard is not
corrected within thirty (30) days from the date of said notice, all water
services shall be discontinued thereafter until there has been compliance with
the requirements of the plumbing code adopted herein. (1988 Code § 8-3-5; amd.
2016 Code)
8-3-3: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00),
together with costs of such prosecution. Each day during which such violation
continues shall be a separate offense. (1988 Code § 8-3-6)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Code Adopted
8-4-2: Definition
8-4-3: Limited Area For Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Explosives
8-4-4: Appeals
8-4-5: Enforcement
8-4-6: Violation; Penalties
8-4-1: CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by the city council for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the international fire code, 2015
edition, recommended and published by the International Code Council, Inc., and
the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified or amended, of which code not less than three (3) copies have been and
are now filed in the office of the city secretary, and the same is hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the
effective date hereof, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the city. (1988 Code §
8-4-1; amd. 2016 Code)
8-4-2: DEFINITION:
Whenever the word "municipality" is used in the code herein adopted, it shall
be held to mean the city of Santa Anna, Texas. (1988 Code §
8-4-2)
8-4-3: LIMITED AREA FOR STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND EXPLOSIVES:
The limits referred to in the code herein adopted in which the storage of
flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited; the limits
referred to in the code herein adopted in which bulk storage of liquefied
petroleum gas is restricted; and the limits referred to in the code herein
adopted in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited are
hereby established as follows:
Beginning with Lee Street, thence west to Third Street, thence south to Santa
Fe Street and to First Street, thence east to Lee Street.
(1988 Code §
8-4-4; amd. 2016 Code)
8-4-4: APPEALS:
Whenever the fire marshal shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a
permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code
adopted herein do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of said code
have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from
the decision of the fire marshal to the city council within thirty (30) days
from the date the decision is appealed. (1988 Code §
8-4-5; amd. 2016 Code)
8-4-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The code herein adopted shall be enforced by the fire marshal. (1988 Code §
8-4-6; amd. 2016 Code)
8-4-6: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code herein
adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified
by the city council or by the municipal court, within the time fixed herein,
shall severally, for each and every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or
by imprisonment for not less than one day nor more than ten (10) days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment. (1988 Code § 8-4-7; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when
not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (1988 Code § 8-4-7)
CHAPTER 5
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
8-5-1: Code Adopted
8-5-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The provisions and regulations of the international fuel gas code, 2015
edition, recommended and published by the International Code Council, Inc., and
the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified or amended, of which not less than three (3) copies have been and are
now filed in the office of the city secretary, is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Interpretation
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: General Requirements
8-6-4: Zoning Districts And Map
8-6-5: A Residential District Use Regulations
8-6-6: B Apartment District Use Regulations
8-6-7: C Business District Use Regulations
8-6-8: D Industrial District Use Regulations
8-6-9: Nonconforming Uses
8-6-10: Amendments
8-6-11: Enforcement And Penalty
8-6-1: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall
be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, prosperity or general welfare.
   B.   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or
annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; provided,
however, that where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of
buildings or premises or upon height of buildings, or requires larger open
spaces than are imposed or required by other chapters, rules or regulations, or
by easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall
govern. (1988 Code § 8-7-9)
   C.   Should any section, clause or provision of this chapter be declared by
the court to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of this chapter
as a whole or any part thereof, other than the part so declared to be invalid.
(1988 Code § 8-7-11)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are herein defined as
provided in this section. Words used in the present tense include the future;
words in the singular number include the plural, and words in the plural number
include the singular; the word "building" includes the word "structure"; the
word "shall" is mandatory and not directory.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building or portion of the main building, the
use of which is clearly incidental to that of the main building.
ALLEY: A way which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting
property.
APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel where lodging and meals for five
(5) or more persons are served for compensation.
BUILDING: A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and when
separated by a division wall without openings, each portion of such building
shall be deemed a separate building, except as provided in section
8-6-9 of this chapter.
BUSINESS: Includes the "commercial uses", "industrial uses" and "districts" as
herein defined.
DWELLING, FOUR-FAMILY: A multiple dwelling designed for or occupied exclusively
by four (4) families living independently of each other.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building or portion thereof used or designed as a
residence for three (3) or more families as separate housekeeping units,
including apartments and apartment hotels.
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A detached building designed for or occupied exclusively
by one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two
(2) families living independently of each other.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house,
lodging house, hotel, club, or fraternity or sorority house.
GROUP HOUSES: A group of detached or semidetached dwellings facing upon a
"place" as herein defined.
HOTEL: A building occupied as the more or less temporary abiding place of
individuals who are lodged with or without meals and in which there are more
than fifteen (15) rooms usually occupied singly and no provision made for
cooking in any individual room or apartment.
HOUSE TRAILER: A nonself-propelled vehicle containing living or sleeping
accommodations, which is designed or used for highway travel.
LODGING HOUSE: A building, other than a hotel, where lodging for five (5) or
more persons is provided for compensation.
LOT: Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory buildings,
together with such open spaces as are required under this chapter, and having
its principal frontage upon a street or officially approved place.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has been
recorded in the office of the registrar of Coleman County.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building or land occupied by a use that does not conform
with the regulations of the use district in which it is situated.
PLACE: An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently
reserved as the principal means of access to abutting property.
STREET: A public or private thoroughfare which affords principal means of
access to abutting property.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or that it be attached to something having a location on the
ground.
TOURIST CAMP: A group of attached or detached buildings containing individual
sleeping or living units for overnight tourists, with garage attached or
parking facilities conveniently located to each such unit.
USED CAR JUNK AREA: An open area other than a street, alley or place, used for
the dismantling or wrecking of used automobiles or the storage, sale or dumping
of dismantled or wrecked cars or their parts.
USED CAR SALES AREA: An open area other than a street, alley or place, used for
the display and sales of used automobiles and where no repair work is done
except the necessary reconditioning of the cars to be displayed and sold on the
premises. (1988 Code §
8-7-1; amd. 2016 Code)
8-6-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   No building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered nor
shall any building or land be used for any purpose other than is permitted in
the district in which such building or land is located.
   B.   Every building hereafter erected shall be located on a "lot" as defined
in section
8-6-2 of this chapter, and in no case shall there be more than one building on
one lot, except as hereinafter provided. (1988 Code § 8-7-2)
8-6-4: ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP:
   A.   Districts Established: In order to regulate and restrict the location
of trades and industries and the location of buildings erected or altered for
specified uses, and to regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings
hereafter erected or altered, to regulate and determine the area of yards and
other open spaces, and to regulate and limit the density of population, the
city is hereby divided into districts of which there shall be the following:
 
A Residential district
B Apartment district
C Business district
D Industrial district
 
   B.   Zoning Map: The districts aforesaid and the boundaries of such
districts are shown upon the map attached to ordinance 101194 and made a part
of this chapter, being designated as the "district map" and said map and all
notations, references and other information shown thereon shall be as much a
part of this chapter as if the matters and information set forth by said map
were fully described herein. (1988 Code § 8-7-2)
   C.   Determination Of District Boundaries: Where uncertainty exists with
respect to the boundaries of the various districts as shown on the district map
made a part of this chapter, the following rules shall apply:
      1.   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless
otherwise shown, and where the districts designated on the map made a part of
this chapter are bounded approximately by street or alley lines, said street or
alley shall be construed to be the boundary of such district.
      2.   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated and where
the property has been or may hereinafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be lot lines, and where the districts
designated on the map made a part of this chapter are bounded approximately by
lot lines, said lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries of such
districts unless said boundaries are otherwise indicated on the map.
      3.   In subdivided property, the district boundary lines on the map made
a part of this chapter shall be determined by use of the scale contained on
such map. (1988 Code § 8-7-8; amd. 2014 Code)
8-6-5: A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT USE REGULATIONS:
In the A residential district, no building or land shall be used and no
building shall be hereafter erected or structurally altered, unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, except for one or more of the following uses:
A transitional use may be permitted where the side of a lot in the A
residential district abuts upon a lot zoned for business purposes.
Accessory buildings, including one private garage, private stables or servants'
quarters when located not less than sixty feet (60') from the front lot line
nor less than five feet (5') from any other street line; provided, however,
that servants' quarters may be erected above private garages or private
stables, and a private garage may be constructed as a part of the main building
or attached thereto by covered passage.
Churches.
Farming and truck gardening.
Golf courses, except miniature courses, driving tees and the like, operated for
commercial purposes.
Museums, libraries, parks, playgrounds or community centers owned and operated
by the city.
One-family and two-family dwellings.
Schools, elementary and high.
Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses when situated in the same
dwelling, including home occupations such as the office of a physician,
surgeon, dentist or artist. (1988 Code § 8-7-3)
8-6-6: B APARTMENT DISTRICT USE REGULATIONS:
In the B apartment districts, no buildings or land shall be used and no
buildings shall be hereafter erected or structurally altered, unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, except for one or more of the following uses:
Any use permitted in the A residential district.
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the uses listed
below when located on the same lot and not involving the conduct of a business,
including private and storage garages and servants' quarters when located not
less than sixty feet (60') from the front lot line nor less than five feet (5')
from any other street line, private or storage garages constructed as a part of
the main building or servants' quarters erected above private garages.
Boarding and lodging houses.
Hospitals and clinics, except veterinary hospitals and clinics.
Hotels in which incidental business may be conducted for the sole convenience
of the occupants of the building; provided, however, there shall be no entrance
to such place of business except from the inside of the building.
Institutions of an educational or philanthropic nature, other than those of
correctional nature or for mental cases.
Multiple dwellings.
Private clubs, fraternities, sororities and lodges, except those the chief
activity of which is a service customarily carried on as a business. (1988 Code
§ 8-7-4)
8-6-7: C BUSINESS DISTRICT USE REGULATIONS:
In the C business districts, all buildings and land, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, may be used for any use permitted in the B apartment
districts or for any other use except the following:
Acetylene gas manufacture or storage.
Acid manufacture.
Alcohol manufacture.
Ammonia, bleaching powder or chlorine manufacture.
Any kind of manufacture, production or treatment other than manufacture,
production or treatment of products clearly incidental to the conduct of a
retail business conducted on the premises.
Arsenal.
Asphalt manufacture or refining.
Auto laundry.
Bag cleaning.
Blacksmithing or horseshoeing shop.
Blast furnace.
Boiler works.
Brick, tile or terra cotta manufacture.
Building material storage yard.
Candle manufacture.
Celluloid manufacture.
Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of paris manufacture.
Cereal mills.
Coal, coke or wood yard.
Coke ovens.
Contractor plant or storage yard.
Cooperage works.
Cotton gin.
Cotton oil mill.
Creosote treatment or manufacture.
Disinfectants manufacture.
   Distillation of bones, coal or wood.
Dyestuff manufacture.
Emery cloth and sandpaper manufacture.
Explosives manufacture or storage.
Exterminator and insect poison manufacture.
Fat rendering.
Fertilizer manufacture.
Fireworks or explosive manufacture or storage.
Fish smoking and curing.
Flour mills.
Forge plant.
Garbage, offal or dead animals reduction or dumping.
Gas (illuminating or heating) manufacture.
Glue, size or gelatine manufacture.
Grain elevators.
Gunpowder manufacture or storage.
Horse barns.
Iron, steel, brass or copper foundry or fabrication plant.
Lampblack manufacture.
Laundry (employing more than 5 persons on the premises).
Livery stable or riding academy.
Machine shop.
Match manufacture.
Milk distributing station other than a retail business conducted on the
premises.
Oilcloth or linoleum manufacture.
Oiled or rubber goods manufacture.
Ore reduction.
Paint, oil, shellac, turpentine or varnish manufacture.
Paper and pulp manufacture.
Petroleum products refining or wholesale storage of petroleum.
Planing mills (except small woodworking plants).
Potash works.
Pyroxylin manufacture.
Rock crusher.
Rolling mills.
Rubber or gutta percha manufacture or treatment.
Saltworks.
Sauerkraut manufacture.
Semipublic and public parking areas shall be permitted in the C business
districts when such use is clearly incidental to the conduct of the business of
a local commercial district.
Shoe polish manufacture.
Smelting of tin, copper, zinc or iron ores.
Soap manufacture, other than liquid soap.
Soda and compound manufacture.
Stock feeding pens.
Stockyards or slaughter of animals.
Stone mill or quarry.
Stone monument works (employing more than 5 persons).
Storage or baling of rags, iron, paper or junk.
Stove polish manufacture.
Sulfuric, nitric or hydrochloric acid manufacture.
Tallow, grease or lard manufacture or refining from animal fat.
Tanning, curing or storage of rawhides or skins.
Tar distillation or manufacture.
Tar roofing or waterproofing manufacture.
Tobacco (chewing) manufacture or treatment.
Used car junk area.
Vinegar manufacture.
Wool pulling or scouring.
Yeast plant.
In general, those uses which may be obnoxious or offensive by reason or
emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas or noise. (1988 Code § 8-7-5)
8-6-8: D INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT USE REGULATIONS:
In the D industrial district, buildings and land may be used for any purpose
whatsoever not in conflict with any ordinance of the city regulating nuisances;
provided, however, that no building or occupancy permit shall be issued for any
of the following uses until and unless the location of such use shall have been
approved by the city council:
Acid manufacture.
Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of paris manufacture.
Distillation of bones.
Explosives manufacture or storage.
Fat rendering.
Fertilizer manufacture.
Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction or dumping.
Gas manufacture.
Glue manufacture.
Petroleum refining.
Smelting of tin, copper, zinc or iron ores.
Stockyards or slaughter of animals.
Storage or baling of rags, paper, iron or junk.
Tannery.
Used car junk areas. (1988 Code § 8-7-6)
8-6-9: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   The lawful use of a "building" existing at the effective date hereof
may be continued, although such use does not conform with the provisions
hereof, and such use may be extended throughout the building, provided no
structural alterations, except those required by law or ordinance, are made
therein. If no structural alterations are made, a nonconforming use of a
building may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or more
restricted classification. If such nonconforming building is removed, every
future use of such premises shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   The lawful use of "land" existing at the effective date hereof,
although such does not conform to the provisions hereof, may be continued, but
if such nonconforming use is discontinued, any future use of said premises
shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be taken to prevent the restoration of a
building destroyed to the extent of not more than seventy five percent (75%) of
its reasonable value by fire, explosion or other casualty, or act of God, or
the public enemy, nor the continued occupancy or use of such building or part
thereof which existed at the time of such partial destruction.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall also apply to nonconforming uses
in districts hereafter changed. (1988 Code § 8-7-7)
8-6-10: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: The city council may, from time to time on its motion, or on
petition after report by the zoning commission and after hearing and public
notice of such hearing given by one publication in the official newspaper at
least fifteen (15) days before the time of hearing, amend, supplement or change
the regulations and districts herein or subsequently established.
   B.   Petition For Amendment; Protests: Whenever the owner of fifty percent
(50%) or more of the area of all the property within a radius of two hundred
feet (200') of any area proposed to be changed shall present to the city
council a petition duly signed and acknowledged by them, requesting any such
amendment, supplement or change of the regulations prescribed for such
district, or part thereof, the council shall act upon such petition within
ninety (90) days after the filing thereof. In case, however, of a protest
against a change, signed by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more either
of the area of the lots included in such proposed change, or of those
immediately adjacent in the rear thereof extending two hundred feet (200')
therefrom, or of those directly opposite thereto extending two hundred feet
(200') from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such amendment shall not
become effective except by a favorable vote of all the members of the city
council. (1988 Code § 8-7-10)
8-6-11: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Enforcement Official: It shall be the duty of the mayor, through the
proper department, to enforce this chapter.
   B.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00)
nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (1988 Code
§ 8-7-12)
ARTICLE A.  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
8-6A-1: Findings Of Fact
8-6A-2: Purpose And Intent
8-6A-3: Definitions
8-6A-4: Classification Of Businesses
8-6A-5: Location Restrictions; Uses Permitted
8-6A-6: Additional Requirements For Businesses Showing Sexually Explicit Films
And Videos
8-6A-7: Conditional Use Permit Requirements
8-6A-8: Nonconforming Businesses
8-6A-9: Exemptions
8-6A-10: Specific Violations
8-6A-11: Violation; Penalty
8-6A-12: Conflicting Provisions
8-6A-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
The recitals set out in the ordinance codified herein are hereby found to be
true and correct and are hereby adopted by the city council and made a part
hereof for all purposes as findings of fact. (Ord. 8800-1, 8-8-2000)
8-6A-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose of this article to regulate sexually oriented businesses to
promote the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens
of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented businesses within
the city. The provisions of this article have neither the purpose or effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this article to restrict or deny access by adults to
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this article to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene materials. (Ord. 8800-1, 8-8-2000)
8-6A-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or slug operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
operated still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image producing
devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine
at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial establishment which, as one
of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of
consideration any one or more of the following:
   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion pictures, videocassettes or video reproductions, compact disc
visual discs, digital video discs, slides, or other visual representations
which depict or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or
   B.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
   C.   A commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes
that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and still
be categorized as an adult bookstore or adult video store. Such other business
purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments from being
categorized as an adult bookstore or adult video store so long as either:
      1. Two percent (2%) or more of its gross revenue is derived from the sale
or rental of the specified materials which depict or describe specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      2. Two percent (2%) or more of its inventory consists of the specified
materials which depict or describe specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of total nudity or seminudity; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
   A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the public right of way
which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions; or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
ten (10) hours or based on an hourly rate; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room for
a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours or based on an hourly rate.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: Commercial establishments where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
and/or seminudity or live performances which are characterized by the exposure
of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
ESCORT: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a body rub, bathing of the
body, or striptease for another person for sexual arousal.
ESCORT AGENCY: A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   C.   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
NUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity or
displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other
persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The appearance of human bare buttock, anus, male
genitals, female genitals, or areola of the breast.
PERMITTEE: A person in whose name a conditional use permit to operate a
sexually oriented business has been issued and the person who owns the building
and/or land on which the business is located, as well as the individual listed
as an applicant on the application for a permit.
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity.
SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the genitals,
pubic region, and/or areola of the breast, as well as portions of the body
covered by supporting straps or devices.
SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its primary business purposes, offers any of the following for consideration:
   A.   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons
of the opposite sex; or
   B.   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same
sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or seminudity.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter center.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: The male genitals in a state of sexual arousal and/
or the vulva or more internal portion of the female genitals.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A, B and C of this definition.
SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: The increase in floor
area occupied by the business by more than twenty five percent (25%), as the
floor area existed on the effective date hereof, or under a certificate of
occupancy therefor.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and
includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control. (Ord. 8800-1, 8-8-2000)
8-6A-4: CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES:
Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
Adult arcades;
Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
Adult cabarets;
Adult motels;
Adult motion picture theaters;
Adult theaters;
Escort agencies;
Nude model studios; and
Sexual encounter centers. (Ord. 8800-1, 8-8-2000)
8-6A-5: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS; USES PERMITTED:
   A.   This article allows the opportunity for consideration of conditional
use permits to be issued for sexually oriented businesses in the commercial
(herein C) zoning districts only.
   B.   The following uses may be permitted within the city by conditional use
permit only in the commercial zoning districts:
Adult arcades;
Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
Adult cabarets;
Adult motels;
Adult motion picture theaters;
Adult theaters;
Escort agencies;
Nude model studios; and
Sexual encounter centers.
   C.   No use listed in subsection B of this section shall be established
within one thousand feet (1,000') of any of the following uses in existence
prior to the beginning of such business:
      1.   A church, chapel, or other regular place of religious worship;
      2.   A public or private elementary school, secondary school or institute
of higher learning;
      3.   A boundary of any residentially zoned district;
      4.   A public park or playground;
      5.   The property line of a lot used for residential purposes; or
      6.   Another sexually oriented business.
   D.   For the purpose of this article, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church, public or private elementary or secondary school,
or institute of higher learning; to the nearest boundary of a public park or
playground or residential lot; to the nearest boundary of any residentially
zoned district; or from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which a
sexually oriented business is proposed to be located to the nearest exterior
wall of any other sexually oriented business.
   E.   For the purposes of this article, if sexually oriented businesses
cannot be located within a minimum of three percent (3%) of the existing zoning
districts within the city limits, including all nonconforming use sexually
oriented businesses, due to limitations as set forth in this article, the city
shall, upon written request from an applicant, review the current zoning
districts and shall allow zoning alterations as necessary so that a minimum of
three percent (3%) of the citywide zoning, cumulatively within the city limits,
can be occupied by a conditional use permitted sexually oriented business,
including all nonconforming use sexually oriented businesses. (Ord. 8800-1, 8-
8-2000)
8-6A-6: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR BUSINESSES SHOWING SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS
AND VIDEOS:
   A.   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a
film, videocassette, or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   The application for a conditional use permit for a sexually oriented
business shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus one foot (±1'). The building official may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises is correct and has not been altered since it was prepared.
      2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of an amendment to the
conditional use permit.
      4.   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view
required in this subsection A5 must be by direct line of sight from the
manager's station.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in subsection A5 of this section remains unobstructed
by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times
and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to subsection A1 of this section.
      7.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any time.
      8.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one (1.0) foot-candle as measured at
the floor level.
      9.   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described in subsection A8 of this section is maintained at
all times that any patron is present in the premises.
   B.   A person having a duty under subsection A of this section commits a
misdemeanor if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty. (Ord. 8800-1, 8-
8-2000)
8-6A-7: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit And Application Required:
      1.   All sexually oriented businesses located within the city limits must
have a conditional use permit in accordance with this article. A commercial
establishment that is a "sexually oriented business", as defined in section
8-6A-3 of this article, shall at all times of operation within the city limits
have a valid permit. Each owner must have filled out an application, and his or
her name must appear on the permit.
      2.   A person commits an offense if that person conducts business as a
sexually oriented business within the city unless a valid conditional use
permit has been issued by the city for the conduct of such business.
      3.   A person commits an offense if that person conducts business as a
sexually oriented business within the city limits unless the person has a valid
permit which is posted at or near the principal public entrance to the business
in such a manner that it will be conspicuous to patrons who enter the premises,
or behind the bar in a conspicuous manner.
      4.   Every permittee shall have and maintain exclusive occupancy and
control of the entire permitted premises in every phase of the operation of the
sexually oriented business on the permitted premises. A permittee commits an
offense if the permittee attempts to avoid such responsibility by creating any
device, scheme or plan which surrenders control of the employees, premises or
business of the permittee to persons other than the permittee.
   B.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit: A permit or renewal shall be issued
unless one or more of the following conditions exists:
      1.   The applicant has located the sexually oriented business in
violation of this article, unless the business is a nonconforming use as
defined herein.
      2.   The applicant(s) failed to supply all of the information required on
the application.
      3.   The applicant, or any one applicant, gave fraudulent or untruthful
information on the application. This does not apply to clerical errors. (Ord.
8800-1, 8-8-2000)
      4.   The applicant, or any one applicant, has been convicted of a felony
for which less than five (5) years has elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, or a misdemeanor for which less than two (2) years have elapsed
since the date of conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed
for the conviction, whichever date is the later date, of a crime in any state
involving: (Ord. 8800-1, 8-8-2000; amd. 2016 Code)
         a.   Public lewdness, indecent exposure, or indecency with a child as
described in the Texas Penal Code;
         b.   Prohibited sexual conduct, enticing a child, harboring a runaway
child, or sale or purchase of a child as described in the Texas Penal Code;
         c.   Prostitution, promotion of prostitution, aggravated promotion of
prostitution, compelling prostitution, obscenity, sale, distribution, or
display of harmful material to a minor, sexual performance by a child,
employment harmful to children, or possession or promotion of child pornography
as defined in the Texas Penal Code;
         d.   Facilitation, attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any
of the foregoing offenses; or
         e.   Any similar offense to those describe in this subsection B4 under
the criminal or penal code of another state.
   C.   Term Of Permit; Renewals: Permits shall be valid for one year from the
issuance of the permit. Permits must be renewed annually by all owners of the
sexually oriented business. Failure to renew the permit voids the permit.
   D.   Transfer Of Permit: A permit is personal to the owner designated in the
application. A permit may not be transferred except pursuant to and in
compliance with this article. A transfer application must be filed within
thirty (30) days of any change of owner designated on the current permit. A
transfer application shall allow continuation of business under an existing
permit while a new application is being processed. Any transfer application
shall require and be treated in all respects as an original permit application.
In the event that a transfer application is not timely filed, then the existing
permit shall be invalid for any purpose relating to the operation of business.
Provided, however, that nothing in this article shall affect the nonconforming
use provisions herein.
   E.   Revocation Of Permit: Any violation of this article shall constitute
grounds for revocation of a permit. A permit shall be revoked for any of the
following violations:
      1.   The permittee(s) has located the sexually oriented business in
violation of this article, unless the business is a nonconforming use as
defined herein. (Ord. 8800-1, 8-8-2000)
      2.   The permittee(s) failed to supply all of the information required on
the application.
      3.   The permittee(s) gave fraudulent or untruthful information on the
application. This does not apply to clerical errors.
      4.   The permittee, or any one permittee, has been convicted of a felony
for which less than five (5) years has elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, or a misdemeanor for which less than two (2) years have elapsed
since the date of conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed
for the conviction, whichever date is the later date, of a crime in any state
involving: (Ord. 8800-1, 8-8-2000; amd. 2016 Code)
         a.   Public lewdness, indecent exposure, or indecency with a child as
described in the Texas Penal Code;
         b.   Prohibited sexual conduct, enticing a child, harboring a runaway
child, or sale or purchase of a child as described in the Texas Penal Code;
         c.   Prostitution; promotion of prostitution; aggravated promotion of
prostitution; compelling prostitution; obscenity; sale, distribution, or
display of harmful material to a minor; sexual performance by a child;
employment harmful to children; or possession or promotion of child pornography
as defined in the Texas Penal Code;
         d.   Facilitation, attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any
of the foregoing offenses; or
         e.   Any similar offense to those described in this subsection E4
under the criminal or penal code of another state.
      5.   More than four (4) criminal offenses are committed on the permitted
premises in any consecutive twelve (12) month period which fall in one or more
of the following categories:
         a.   Public lewdness, indecent exposure, or indecency with a child as
described in the Texas Penal Code;
         b.   Prohibited sexual conduct, enticing a child, harboring a runaway
child, or sale or purchase of a child as described in the Texas Penal Code;
         c.   Prostitution; promotion of prostitution; aggravated promotion of
prostitution; compelling prostitution; obscenity; sale, distribution, or
display of harmful material to a minor; sexual performance by a child;
employment harmful to children; or possession or promotion of child pornography
as defined in the Texas Penal Code; or
         d.   Facilitation, attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any
of the foregoing offenses.
      6.   Any person under the age of eighteen (18), not otherwise permitted
by the laws of Texas to view the material contained on the premises, is
permitted to enter the premises.
   F.   Appeals:
      1.   All denials and revocations of permit applications and renewals must
be appealed to the city council.
      2.   If an application for issuance or renewal of a permit is denied or a
permit is revoked, upon notice of the denial or revocation of a permit, the
aggrieved applicant or permittee shall have ten (10) days to appeal the
decision to the city council.
      3.   The appeal of a revocation of a permit to the city council shall
abate the revocation of the permit until such time as the city council may hold
a public hearing. (Ord. 8800-1, 8-8-2000)
8-6A-8: NONCONFORMING BUSINESSES:
   A.   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the effective date
hereof that is in violation of this article shall be deemed a nonconforming
use.
   B.   The nonconforming use will be permitted to continue for a period not to
exceed two (2) years, unless sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily
discontinued for a period of thirty (30) days or more.
   C.   Such nonconforming use shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or
altered; except, that the use may be changed to a conforming use.
   D.   If two (2) or more sexually oriented businesses are within one thousand
feet (1,000') of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the
sexually oriented business which was first established and continually
operating at a particular location is the conforming use and the later
established business is nonconforming.
   E.   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant of a
conditional use permit for a sexually oriented business, of a church, public or
private elementary or secondary school, institute of higher learning, public
park or playground, or residential lot within one thousand feet (1,000') of the
sexually oriented business. This subsection applies only to the renewal of a
valid permit and does not apply when an application for a permit is submitted
after a permit and/or license has expired or has been revoked. (Ord. 8800-1, 8-
8-2000)
8-6A-9: EXEMPTIONS:
It is a defense to prosecution under this article that a person appearing in a
state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   A.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state of Texas; a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   B.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   C.   In a structure:
      1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
      2.   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
      3.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time. (Ord. 8800-1, 8-8-2000)
8-6A-10: SPECIFIC VIOLATIONS:
   A.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she:
      1.   Operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a conditional use permit. All sexually oriented businesses shall be
located within the C zoning district.
      2.   Operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
within one thousand feet (1,000') of any of the following uses in existence
prior to the beginning of such business:
         a.   A church, chapel, or other regular place of religious worship;
         b.   A public or private elementary or secondary school or institute
of higher learning;
         c.   A boundary of any residentially zoned district;
         d.   A public park or playground; or
         e.   The property line of a lot used for residential purposes.
      3.   Causes or permits the operation, establishment, substantial
enlargement, or transfer of ownership or control of a sexually oriented
business within one thousand feet (1,000') of another sexually oriented
business.
      4.   Causes or permits the operation, establishment, or maintenance of
more than one "sexually oriented business", as defined in section
8-6A-3 of this article, in the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or
the increase of floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building,
structure, or portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
   B.   For the purpose of subsection A2 of this section, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects,
from the nearest portion of the building or structure in which any, or any part
of any, sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church, public or private elementary or secondary school,
or institute of higher learning, the nearest boundary of a public park or
playground, or residential lot, or the boundary of a residentially zoned
district.
   C.   For purposes of subsection A3 of this section, the distance between any
two (2) sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior
wall of the structure in which each business is located. (Ord. 8800-1, 8-8-
2000)
8-6A-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article, or shall
fail to comply herewith or with any of the requirements hereof, within the city
limits shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be liable for a fine not
to exceed the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00). Each day the violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense. Such penalty shall be in addition
to all the other remedies provided herein. (Ord. 8800-1, 8-8-2000)
8-6A-12: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between this article and any other
code or ordinance of the city, the terms and provisions of this article shall
govern. (Ord. 8800-1, 8-8-2000)
CHAPTER 7
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Map Of Subdivision Required
8-7-1: MAP OF SUBDIVISION REQUIRED:
   A.   On and after the effective date hereof, it shall be the duty of any
person subdividing any lot, block or lands within or adjoining the corporate
limits of the city for the purpose of making an addition therein or thereto or
selling such lots, blocks or lands by reference to such map as recorded shall,
at the time such map is filed in the office of the county clerk or within a
reasonable time thereafter, file with the city secretary a true copy of said
map as recorded in the office of the county clerk. (1988 Code § 9-1-1)
   B.   The public works director and any overseer appointed to work the
streets shall in no instance work streets, avenues and alleys or spend any
money of the city upon streets, avenues and alleys of additions or subdivisions
hereafter made within and to the city until a copy of the map of such additions
and subdivisions is filed with the city secretary as provided in subsection A
of this section. (1988 Code § 9-1-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Any person, agent or employee of a firm or corporation failing to
comply with the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding twenty five dollars ($25.00). (1988 Code § 9-1-1)
