CITY OF SOUR LAKE, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering or tampering with code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Sour Lake, Texas,
shall be designated as the Code of Sour Lake and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code Ch.
53
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Sour Lake,
Texas.
      CITY SECRETARY, CHIEF OF POLICE or OTHER CITY OFFICERS OR DEPARTMENTS.
The City Secretary, Chief of Police or other municipal officers or department,
respectively, of the City of Sour Lake, Texas.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Hardin County, Texas.
      HIGHWAY or STREET. When used in this code, shall include any street,
alley, highway, avenue, public place or square, bridge, viaduct, tunnel,
underpass, overpass and causeway in the city dedicated or devoted to public
use.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Saving Time,
whichever is in current use in the city.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety, of the whole or of the part of the building or land, except as
otherwise defined in this code.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Extends to and includes an individual human, partnership, co-
partnership, firm, company, limited liability partnership or other partnership
or other company, joint venture, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity, association or corporation or any other legal entity, or
their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall
include the feminine, the singular shall include the plural where indicated by
the context.
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall
mean the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real
property, as defined in this section.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property, or a mixture of the two,
if the sense used so indicates.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes land, tenements and hereditaments.
      ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular traffic and that portion of a street used for drainage.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curb or the lateral lane
of the roadway and the adjacent property line, all or a part of which is
intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIDEWALK AREA. The space between the lateral lane of the roadway and the
boundary separating the public right-of-way and the adjacent private property.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Texas.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   ANDor OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.
      (1)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
      (2)   Words in the singular shall include the plural and words in the
plural shall include the singular.
      (3)   The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein
provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
         (b)   If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
      (2)   Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done in a
certain length of time before any proceeding or step in a proceeding shall be
had, the day on which the notice is given, or the act is done, shall be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which the proceeding or step in a
proceeding is to be had shall not be counted, except as otherwise expressly
provided in this code.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including, but not limited to, the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence
of the municipality’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for city officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the city;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to city
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing or otherwise relating to rates
to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating or otherwise relating
to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All ordinances mentioned in division (A) above are hereby recognized
as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at
length herein.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to the indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code § 54.001)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Tex. Gov’t Code §§ 552.001 et seq.
§ 10.19  ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   The Municipal Court of the city shall have exclusive original jurisdiction
within the corporate limits of the city in all criminal cases in which the
punishment is a fine only and where the maximum of the fine does not exceed
$2,000 in all cases arising under ordinances of the city that govern fire
safety, zoning or public health and sanitation, including dumping of refuse and
where the maximum of the fines does not exceed $500 in all other cases arising
under the ordinances of the city. The Municipal Court of the city shall have
concurrent jurisdiction with any Justice of the Peace in any precinct in which
the city is situated in all other criminal cases arising under the criminal
laws of the state, in which punishment is by fine only and where the maximum of
the fine may not exceed $500 and arising within the corporate limits.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal penalties, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code § 54.001
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
32.   RECORDS MANAGEMENT
      
33.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Organizations
   
30.01   Civil Defense and Disaster Relief Committee
   
30.02   Planning and Zoning Commission
Officers and Employees
   
30.15   Fire Marshal
   
30.16   City Secretary
   
30.17   City Manager
 
   
30.99   Penalty
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 30.01  CIVIL DEFENSE AND DISASTER RELIEF COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Municipal Civil Defense and Disaster
Relief Committee of the city, which shall consist of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor of the city, who shall serve as Chairperson of the
Committee;
      (2)   The Municipal Defense Coordinator of the city, who shall be charged
with the preparation of a civil defense plan for the city, together with other
duties as the Committee may prescribe. The Coordinator shall be appointed by
and hold his or her position at the pleasure of the Mayor and City Council. The
Coordinator shall serve as Vice-Chairperson of the Municipal Defense and
Disaster Relief Committee of the city;
      (3)   The City Clerk shall be the Assistant Coordinator and shall assist
the Coordinator and serve in the absence or incapacity of the Coordinator;
      (4)   The directors of divisions and chiefs of services of the divisions
as may be provided for by resolution by the City Council or by directive of the
Municipal Defense Coordinator; and
      (5)   Representatives not to exceed 12 in number from civic, business,
industry, labor, veterans, professional or other groups, to be selected and
appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the Municipal Civil Defense and Disaster
Relief Committee shall include the recommendation for adoption by the City
Council of a civil defense plan for the city, and the recommendation for
adoption by the City Council of any and all mutual aid plans and agreements
which are deemed essential for the implementation of the civil defense plan.
The duties of the Civil Defense and Disaster Relief Committee shall also
include the making of a survey of the availability of existing personnel,
equipment, supplies and services which could be used during an emergency, as
provided for herein, as well as a continuing study of the need for amendments
and improvements in the civil defense plan adopted by the City Council. The
Civil Defense and Disaster Relief Committee of the city shall meet upon the
call of either the Mayor or Coordinator.
   (C)   The Mayor of the city is hereby authorized to join with the County
Judge and the mayors of the other cities in the county in the formation of a
Civil Defense and Disaster Relief Council for the county and shall have the
authority to cooperate in the formation of a civil defense plan for the county
and in the appointment of a Civil Defense Director for the county, as well as
all other powers necessary to participate in a county-wide program of civil
defense and disaster relief insofar as the program may affect the city.
   (D)   (1)   The Office of Municipal Defense Coordinator is hereby created.
The Municipal Defense Coordinator shall have the authority to request the
declaration of the existence of an emergency by the City Council or by higher
authority. In the event it is deemed necessary to declare the existence of an
emergency without delay, the Coordinator may, if the City Council is not in
session, do so, but the action shall be subject to confirmation by the City
Council at its next meeting.
      (2)   The duties and responsibilities of the Municipal Defense
Coordinator shall include the following:
         (a)   The control and direction of the actual operation or training
efforts of the civil defense and disaster relief organization of the city;
         (b)   The determination of all questions of authority and
responsibility that may arise within the civil defense and disaster relief
organization of the city;
         (c)   The maintenance of necessary liaison with other municipal,
district, state, county, regional, federal or other civil defense
organizations;
         (d)   The marshaling, after declaration of an emergency as provided
for above, of all necessary personnel, equipment or supplies from any
department of the city to aid in the carrying out of the civil defense plan;
         (e)   The issuance of all necessary proclamations as to the existence
of an emergency and the immediate operational effectiveness of the civil
defense plan;
         (f)   The issuance of reasonable rules, regulations or directives
which are necessary for the protection of life and property in the city, the
rules and regulations shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk and shall
receive widespread publicity, unless publicity will be of aid and comfort to
the enemy;
         (g)   The supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid
agreements, in cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other
local political subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if
deemed desirable, of an agreement with the county in which the city is located
and with other municipalities within the county, for the county-wide
coordination of efforts in defense and disaster relief;
         (h)   The supervision of and final authorization for the procurement
of all necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private
contributions; and
         (i)   The authorizing of agreements, after approval of the City
Attorney, for the use of private property for air raid shelter and other
purposes.
   (E)   (1)   The operational civil defense and disaster relief organization
of the city shall consist of the officers and employees of the city designated
by the Municipal Defense Coordinator, as well as all volunteer municipal
defense workers. The functions and duties of this organization shall be
distributed among the divisions, services and special staff as the City Council
shall prescribe by resolution or the Municipal Defense Coordinator shall
provide the directive.
      (2)   Any resolution or directive shall set forth the form of
organization, establish and designate divisions and services, assign functions,
duties and powers, and designate officers and employees to carry out the
provisions of this section. Insofar as possible, the form of organization,
titles and terminology shall conform to the recommendations of the State
Defense and Disaster Relief Council of the state and of the federal government.
   (F)   Each person serving as a member of the Municipal Civil Defense and
Disaster Relief Committee, or as an officer, employee or volunteer in any
capacity in the Municipal Civil Defense and Disaster Relief Organization
created by resolution or directive pursuant to the authority herein conferred,
shall, prior to assuming their duty or duties, take an oath which shall be
substantially as follows:
      “I,                  , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the
State of Texas, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear
true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I a member or an
affiliate of any political party or organization, group or combination of
persons that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States or
of this State by force or violence; and that during such time as I am a member
of the County Civil Defense and Disaster Relief Committee of the County of
Hardin, I will not advocate nor become a member or an affiliate of any
organization, group or combination of persons or of any political party that
advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence.”
   (G)   Any light displayed contrary to any order, rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this section constitutes a public
nuisance and when deemed necessary in order to protect life or property during
blackouts or air raids, the police are authorized and directed to enter upon
any premises within the city, using reasonable force, and extinguish lights or
take other necessary action to make effective any order, rule or regulation
promulgated under the authority conferred by this section.
   (H)   Any unauthorized person who shall operate a siren or other device so
as to simulate a blackout signal or air raid, or the termination of a blackout
or air raid, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this section and shall be
subject to the penalties imposed by this section.
   (I)   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and
promulgated pursuant to this section shall be in effect, they shall supersede
all existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter
may be inconsistent therewith.
   (J)   (1)   This section is an exercise by the city of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public peace, health and safety and neither
the city, the agents and representatives of the city or any individual,
receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association or trustee or any of the
agents thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to
comply with, any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall be liable for any damage sustained to person
or property as the result of the activity.
      (2)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants to the city a license or privilege,
or otherwise permits the city to inspect, designate and use the whole or any
part or parts of the real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering
persons during an actual, impending or practice enemy attack shall, together
with his or her successors in interest, if any, not be civilly liable for the
death of, or injury to, any person on or about the real estate or premises
under the license, privilege or other permission or for loss of, or damage to,
the property of the person.
   (K)   No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city
in carrying out any civil defense activity authorized by this section without
prior approval by the City Council, nor shall any person have any right to bind
the city by contract, agreement or otherwise without prior and specific
approval of the City Council.
   (L)   The immediate passage of this section is deemed essential to the
public health, safety and welfare, and it shall take immediate effect.
(Ord. passed 5-25-1967)  Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.02  PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created and established for the city a Planning
and Zoning Commission, which shall be composed of three members. The members
shall be resident citizens, taxpayers and qualified voters of the city, all of
whom shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the governing
body.
      (2)   All vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as provided for
the original appointments.
      (3)   Members of the Commission may be removed by the Mayor, with the
consent of the governing body, after public hearing and for cause assigned in
writing or upon the completion of their assigned project.
      (4)   The members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
   (B)   (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and
Vice-Chairperson from its membership and shall have power to employ qualified
persons as may be necessary for the proper conduct and undertakings of the
Commission and to pay for their services and other necessary expenses; provided
that, the cost of the services and expenses shall not exceed the amount
appropriated by the governing body for the use of the Commission.
      (2)   It shall also have the power to make rules, regulations and by-laws
for its own government, which shall conform as nearly as possible with those
governing the governing body, and same shall be subject to approval by the
Commission.
      (3)   The by-laws shall include, among other items, provisions for:
         (a)   Regular and special meetings, open to the public;
         (b)   Records of its proceedings, to be open for inspection by the
public;
         (c)   Reporting to the governing body and the public, from time to
time and annually; and
         (d)   For the holding of public hearings on its recommendations.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the power and it shall
be its duty to make and recommend for adoption a master plan, as a whole or in
parts, for the future development and redevelopment of the municipality and its
environs and shall have power and it shall be its duty to prepare a
comprehensive plan and ordinance for zoning the city in accordance with Chapter
283, Acts of the Regular Session of the Legislature, 1927, (Tex. Loc. Gov’t
Code, Chs. 211-229 and 211-240). The governing body shall perform other duties
as may be prescribed by ordinance or state law.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1966)
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 30.15  FIRE MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Office of Fire Marshal is hereby created. The office shall be
independent of other city departments, the Fire Marshal reporting directly to
the Mayor and City Commission. The office shall be filled by appointment by the
Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Commission, within five days after
this section shall take effect. The Fire Marshal shall be properly qualified
for the duties of his or her office, and shall be removed only for cause. He or
she shall receive an annual salary of $25 as full compensation for his or her
services.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal shall investigate the cause, origin and circumstances
of every fire occurring with in this city by which property has been destroyed
or damaged, and shall especially make investigation as to whether the fire was
the result of carelessness or design. The investigation shall be begun within
24 hours, not including Sundays, of the occurrence of the fire. The Fire
Marshal shall keep in his or her office a record of all fires, together with
all the facts, statistics and circumstances, including the origin of the fires
and the amount of the loss, which may be determined by the investigation
required by this section.
   (C)   The Fire Marshal, when, in his or her opinion, further investigation
is necessary, shall take of cause to be taken the testimony, on oath, of all
persons supposed to be cognizant of any facts or to have any means of knowledge
in relation to the matter under investigation, and shall cause the same to be
reduced to writing; and, if he or she shall be of the opinion that there is
evidence sufficient to charge any person with the crime of arson, or with the
attempt to commit the crime of arson, or of conspiracy to defraud, or criminal
conduct in connection with the fire, he or she shall cause the person to be
lawfully arrested and charged with the offense or either of them, and shall
furnish to the proper prosecuting attorney all evidence, together with the
names of witnesses and all of the information obtained by him or her, including
a copy of all pertinent and material testimony taken in the case.
   (D)   The Fire Marshal shall have the power to summon witnesses before him
or her to testify in relation to any matter which is by the provisions of this
section a subject of inquiry and investigation, and may inquire the
reproduction of any book, paper or document deemed pertinent thereto. The Fire
Marshal is hereby authorized and empowered to administer oaths and affirmations
to any person appearing as witnesses before him or her.
   (E)   Any witness who refuses to be sworn, or who refuses to appear to
testify, or who disobeys any lawful order of the Fire Marshal, or who fails or
refuses to produce any book, paper or document touching any matter under
examination, or who is guilty of any contemptuous conduct during any of the
proceedings of the Fire Marshal in the matter of the investigation or inquiry,
after being summoned to give testimony in relation to any matter under
investigation asforesaid, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor; and it shall
be the duty of the Fire Marshal to cause all offenders to be prosecuted.
   (F)   All investigations held by or under the direction of the Fire Marshal
may, in his or her discretion, be private, and persons other than those
required to be present may be excluded from the place where the investigation
is held, and witnesses may be kept separate and apart from each other and not
allowed to communicate with each other until they have been examined.
   (G)   The Fire Marshal shall have the authority at all times of day or
night, when necessary, in the performance of the duties imposed upon him or her
by the provisions of this section, to enter upon and examine any building or
premises where any fire has occurred, and other buildings and premises
adjoining or near the same, which authority shall be exercised only with reason
and good discretion.
   (H)   The Fire Marshal, upon complaint of any person having an interest in
any building or property adjacent and without any complaint shall have a right
at all reasonable hours, for the purpose of examination, to enter into and upon
all buildings and premises within the city and it shall be his or her duty,
monthly or more often, to enter upon and make or cause to be entered and made,
a thorough examination of all mercantile, manufacturing and public buildings,
together with, the premises belonging thereto. Whenever he or she shall find
any building or other structure which, for want of repair, of by reason of age
or dilapidated condition, of for any cause, is especially liable to fire, and
which is so situated as to endanger persons or property therein, and whenever
he or she shall find an improper or dangerous arrangement of stores, ranges,
furnaces or other heating appliances of any kind whatsoever, including
chimneys, flues and pipes with which the same may be connected, or a dangerous
arrangement of lightening devices or systems, or a dangerous or unlawful
storage of explosives, compounds, petroleum, gasoline, kerosene, dangerous
chemicals, vegetable products, ashes, combustible inflammable and refuse
materials, or other conditions which may be dangerous in character or liable to
cause or promote fire or create conditions dangerous to the firefighters or
occupants, be shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and the order
shall be forthwith complied with by the owner or occupant of the building or
premises. Provided, however, that, if the owner or occupant deems himself or
herself aggrieved by the order, he or she may, within five days, appeal to the
Mayor, who shall investigate the cause of the complaint and unless by his or
her authority the order is revoked, the order shall remain in force and be
forthwith complied with by the owner or occupant. At the end of each month, the
Fire Marshal shall report to the State Fire Marshal all existing hazardous
conditions, together with separate report on each fire in the city during the
month.
   (I)   This section shall be effective and in full force from and after its
passage and approval.
(Ord. passed 8-30-1943)
§ 30.16  CITY SECRETARY.
   (A)   Creation of office. The Office of City Secretary is hereby
established.
   (B)   Powers and duties. This office shall have all the powers and perform
all the duties prescribed to it by law. These duties shall include the
following.
      (1)   The City Secretary shall attend every meeting of the City Council
and shall keep accurate minutes of the proceedings of the Council in a book
provided for that purpose.
      (2)   The City Secretary shall engross and enroll all motions and
resolutions of the City Council and ordinances of the city.
      (3)   The City Secretary shall attest all commissions and licenses issued
by the Mayor.
      (4)   The City Secretary shall preserve and keep in order all books,
papers, documents and records of the Council and keep a record of the books,
papers, documents and records.
      (5)   The City Secretary shall have custody of all laws and ordinances of
the city.
      (6)   The City Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the city and
shall affix the same to obligations of the city only by order of the City
Council.
      (7)   The City Secretary shall perform the services and comply with the
regulations as may by prescribed by ordinance or resolution.
      (8)   The City Secretary, in order to comply with the Open Meeting Law,
shall post in a place readily accessible to the public and 72 hours preceding
the meetings, notices of the meetings of the City Council.
      (9)   The City Secretary shall perform all other necessary duties that
pertain to the office and all other duties as required by the Mayor and the
City Council, as though the services were particularly required by ordinance.
   (C)   Appointment and tenure. The City Secretary shall be employed by a
majority vote of the City Council with no stated term of office and shall only
be removed by a majority vote of the City Council. The City Council may confer
on other municipal officers the powers and duties of the City Secretary.
(Ord. passed 8-21-1990)
§ 30.17  CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Creation of office. The Office of City Manager is hereby established.
   (B)   Appointment and tenure. The Manager shall be appointed for an
indefinite period and subject to discharge at the will of the City Council.
Both appointment and removal shall require a majority vote of the City Council.
   (C)   Compensation. The annual salary of the City Manager shall be set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (D)   Temporary absence or disability. During the absence or disability of
the City Manager, the City Manager shall appoint an Acting City Manager by
filing a letter with the City Secretary. Should the City Manager fail to make
an appointment, the City Council shall designate some properly qualified person
to perform the duties of the office.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the City Manager shall be
as follows:
      (1)   To devote all his or her working time and attention to the affairs
of the city and to be responsible to the City Council for the efficient
administration of the city’s affairs;
      (2)   To see that all provisions of federal, state and local laws,
ordinances and resolutions are enforced;
      (3)   To appoint and remove, with the advice of the Council, and
excepting the Police Department, all heads of departments and to have the power
to appoint and remove all subordinate employees;
      (4)   To exercise supervision and control over all departments created by
the Council;
      (5)   To attend all meetings of the Council with a right to take part in
the discussion, but having no vote, and to be notified of all special meetings
of the Council;
      (6)   To see that all contracts with the city, including public utility
franchises, are faithfully kept and performed and, upon knowledge of any
violation thereof, to call the same to the attention of the Council;
      (7)   To act as budget officer and, as such, to prepare and submit to the
Council, prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, a budget of proposed
income and expenditures for the ensuing year;
      (8)   To file the budget as required by state law after the budget has
been approved by the City Council;
      (9)   To keep the Council advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the city and to make recommendations as may seem to him or her
desirable;
      (10)   To report on finances and on administrative activities for the
preceding year and to publish the reports as required by law; and
      (11)   To perform other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance,
resolution or as directed by the Council. Neither the Council, nor any of its
members, shall direct or request the appointment of any person to, or his or
her removal from, office by the City Manager or by any of his or her
subordinates. However, the Council may consult and advise the City Manager,
make inquiries regarding appointment or removal, and may express its opinion in
regard thereto. In regard to the administrative and executive duties under the
jurisdiction of the City Manager, the Council and its members shall deal solely
through the City Manager, and neither the Council, nor any member thereof,
shall give orders to any subordinate of the City Manager, either privately or
publicly. Any willful violation of the foregoing provision by any member of the
Council shall constitute official misconduct.
(Ord. passed 10-20-1987)
§ 30.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully to obstruct, hinder or
delay any member of the civil defense organization in the enforcement of any
rule or regulation issued pursuant to §
30.01, or to do any act forbidden by any rule or regulation issued pursuant to
the authority contained in §
30.01. It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or display
any emblem, insignia or any other means of identification as a member of the
civil defense organization of the city, unless authority so to do has been
granted to the person by the proper officials. Convictions for violations of
the provisions of §
30.01 shall be punishable by fine not to exceed $100.
   (C)   (1)   Any person being convicted of any demeanor, according to §
30.15(E), shall be fined in a sum of not exceeding $25. Provided, however,
that, any person so convicted shall have the right to appeal.
      (2)   Any owner or occupant of a building or other structure or premises,
who shall keep or maintain the same when, for want of repair, or by reason of
age or dilapidated condition, or for any cause, it is especially liable to fire
and which is so situated as to endanger buildings or property of others, or is
especially liable to fire and which is occupied to that fire would endanger
other persons or their property therein, shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $10, nor more than $50.
      (3)   Any owner or occupant of any building or other structure, or
premises, who shall keep or maintain the same with an improper arrangement of a
stove, range, furnace or other heating appliance of any kind whatever,
including chimneys, flues and pipes with which the same may be connected, so as
to be dangerous in the matter of fire, or health, or safety of persons or
property of others; or who shall keep or maintain any building, other structure
or premises with an improper arrangement of a lightening devices or system, or
with a storage of explosives, petroleum, gasoline, kerosene, chemicals,
vegetable products, ashes, combustibles, inflammable materials, refuse or with
any other condition which shall be dangerous in character to the persons health
or property of others; or which shall be dangerous in the matter of promoting,
augmenting or causing fires; or which shall create conditions dangerous to
firefighters, occupants of the building, structure or premises other than the
maintain or thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $10, nor
mor than $50.
      (4)   No prosecution shall be brought under divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3)
above until the order provided for in §
30.15 be given, and the party notified shall fail refuse to comply with the
same.
      (5)   The penalties provided for herein shall be recovered by the city in
the same manner as provided by law for the enforcement of fines, forfeitures
and punishments for offenses against the city.
      (6)   Every day’s maintenance of any of the conditions prohibited in any
of the foregoing sections shall be a distinct and separate offense.
      (7)   All misdemeanors herein provided for shall be prosecuted, and all
fines and forfeitures herein provided for shall be recovered and enforced, in
the same manner as provided by law for the enforcement of fines, forfeitures,
penalties and punishments for offenses generally against the city.
(Ord. passed 8-30-1943; Ord. passed 5-25-1967)
CHAPTER 31:  MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Municipal Court Building Security Fund
   
31.02   Municipal Court Technology Fund
Municipal Court
   
31.15   Title
   
31.16   Established
   
31.17   Jurisdiction
   
31.18   Hours of operation
   
31.19   Seal
   
31.20   Judge
   
31.21   Docket
   
31.22   Court Clerk
   
31.23   Justice Court rules applicable
   
31.24   Certain provisions of Code of Criminal Procedure applicable
   
31.25   City Attorney conducting prosecutions; County Attorney representing
state
   
31.26   Prosecutions to be in name of state
   
31.27   Complaints
   
31.28   Trial by jury
   
31.29   Jurors
   
31.30   Rights of defendant
   
31.31   Pleas
   
31.32   Jury deliberations; discharge of jury and retrial
   
31.33   Verdict, rendering judgment on
   
31.34   Judgments
   
31.35   New trial
   
31.36   Appeals
   
31.37   Custody of defendant pending appeal
   
31.38   Court fees
   
31.39   Disposition of fines and cost
   
31.40   Amendment
   
31.41   Action of City Council
   
31.42   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  MUNICIPAL COURT BUILDING SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   A Municipal Court Building Security Fund is hereby established by the
City Council.
   (B)   Any defendant of the Municipal Court of the city that is convicted of
a misdemeanor offense shall pay a $3 security fee as a cost of Court into the
Municipal Court Building Security Fund.
   (C)   A person is considered convicted if:
      (1)   A sentence is imposed on the person;
      (2)   The person receives community supervision, including deferred
adjudication; or
      (3)   The Court defers final disposition of the person’s case.
   (D)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall collect the costs and pay the funds to
the Municipal Treasurer, or to any other official who discharges the duties
commonly delegated to the Municipal Treasurer, for the deposit in a Fund to be
known as the Courthouse Security Fund or a fund to be known as the Municipal
Court Building Security Fund, as appropriate.
   (E)   A fund designated by this section may be used only to finance items
when used for the purpose of providing security services for buildings housing
a municipal court, including:
      (1)   The purchase or repair of X-ray machines and conveying systems;
      (2)   Handheld metal detectors;
      (3)   Walk through metal detectors;
      (4)   Identification cards and systems;
      (5)   Electronic locking and surveillance equipment;
      (6)   Bailiffs, deputy sheriffs, deputy constables or contract security
personnel during times when they are providing appropriate security services;
      (7)   Signage;
      (8)   Confiscated weapon inventory and tracking systems;
      (9)   Locks, chains, alarms or similar security devices;
      (10)   The purchase or repair of bullet-proof glass; and
      (11)   Continuing education on security issues for Court personnel and
security personnel.
   (F)   The Municipal Court Building Fund or Municipal Court Building Security
Fund shall be administered by or under the direction of the governing body of
the municipality.
   (G)   This section shall be effective immediately upon its passage.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 31.02  MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FUND.
   (A)   Any defendant of the Municipal Court that is convicted of a
misdemeanor offense shall pay a technology fee not to exceed $4 as costs of
court.
   (B)   A person is considered convicted if:
      (1)   A sentence is imposed on the person;
      (2)   The person is placed on community supervision, including deferred
adjudication community supervision; or
      (3)   The court defers final disposition of the person’s case.
   (C)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall collect the costs and pay the funds to
the Municipal Treasurer or to any other official who discharges the duties
commonly delegated to the Municipal Treasurer, for the deposit in a fund to be
known as the Municipal Court Technology Fund.
   (D)   A fund designated by this section may be used only to finance the
purchase of technological enhancements for Municipal Court of municipal court
of record, including:
      (1)   Computer systems;
      (2)   Computer networks;
      (3)   Computer hardware;
      (4)   Computer software;
      (5)   Imaging systems;
      (6)   Electronic kiosks;
      (7)   Electronic ticket writers; and
      (8)   Docket management systems.
   (E)   The Municipal Court Technology Fund shall be administered by or under
the direction of the governing body of the city.
(Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
MUNICIPAL COURT
§ 31.15  TITLE.
   The title of this subchapter and the name by which it shall be known is the
“Municipal Court Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.16  ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Municipal Court which shall operate in
accordance with the state’s rules of court.
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal courts, generally, see Tex. Gov’t Code § 29.001
§ 31.17  JURISDICTION.
   The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction within the city of all cases
arising under the ordinances of the city, and also concurrently with the
Justice of the Peace of Precinct #2 of the county, in all criminal cases
arising under the criminal laws of the state in which the punishment is by fine
only, as provided for in the general penalty provision found in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Jurisdiction of municipal courts, see Tex. Gov’t Code § 29.003
§ 31.18  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The Municipal Court shall hold no terms, but shall be deemed at all times
open for the transaction of business.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.19  SEAL.
   (A)   The Municipal Court shall have a seal having engraved thereon a star
of five points in the center and the words “Municipal Court in Hardin, Texas”.
   (B)   The impress of the seal shall be attached to all proceedings, except
subpoenas issued out of the Court, and shall be used to authenticate the
official acts of the Clerk and the Judge, where he or she is authorized or
required to use the seal of office.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.20  JUDGE.
   (A)   Appointment. The Office of Judge of the Municipal Court shall be
filled by appointment by the City Council.
   (B)   Term of office. The Judge shall be appointed for a term of office
running concurrently with that of the Mayor. He or she shall receive
compensation as the City Council shall fix by ordinance or resolution and shall
furnish a surety bond as may be required by the city.
   (C)   Absence of Judge. The City Council may, by ordinance, appoint one or
more qualified individuals to temporarily sit for the city’s regular Municipal
Judge in the event of the regular Judge’s inability to act due to absence,
illness, conflicts or any other reason.
   (D)   Powers and duties of Judge. The Judge of the Municipal Court shall
perform the duties as prescribed by the laws of the state. Specifically, he or
she shall:
      (1)   Have jurisdiction and cognizance of all offenses against the
ordinances of the city, and shall be deemed always open for the trial of the
causes;
      (2)   Have full power, authority and jurisdiction in all cases arising
under the ordinances of the city, and over any breaches and violations thereof,
and of any and all persons thus offending;
      (3)   Try and determine all suits, actions and complaints charging a
violation of any ordinance of the city;
      (4)   Grant new trials on motion in writing, showing sufficient cause and
duly sworn to;
      (5)   All prosecutions, trials and proceedings had in the Court shall be
governed by the laws and rules regulating trials and proceedings in justice
courts;
      (6)   Require of any person arrested for violating any ordinance of the
city, a bond for his or her good behavior and to keep the peace with two good
and sufficient sureties, which bond shall be payable to the city;
      (7)   Issue subpoenas for witnesses and compel their attendance by
process of attachment;
      (8)   Punish all contempts by fines and imprisonment, or either;
      (9)   Issue subpoenas, attachments, writs of capias, warrants of arrest,
search warrants, executions and all other process known to the law which a
justice of the peace may lawfully issue. All writs and process shall be issued,
served and executed under the same forms and in the same manner as the like
process would be when issued by a justice of the peace, unless otherwise
provided in this subchapter;
      (10)   Administer official oaths, and all oaths and affirmations in trial
before him or her; and
      (11)   Have no jurisdiction to try any civil case, except to declare
bonds forfeited and collect the same.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.21  DOCKET.
   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall keep a docket in which he or she
shall enter the proceedings in all trials had before him or her, which docket
shall show:
   (A)   The style of the action;
   (B)   The nature of the offense charged;
   (C)   The date of the issuance of the warrant and the return made thereon;
   (D)   The time when the trial was had, and whether tried before a jury or on
a bench trial;
   (E)   The verdict;
   (F)   The judgment of the Court;
   (G)   Motion for a new trial, if any, and the action of the Court thereon;
   (H)   Nonce of appeal, if any; and
   (I)   The time when and the manner in which the judgment was enforced.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.22  COURT CLERK.
   (A)   City Secretary as ex-officio Clerk. The City Secretary shall be ex-
officio Clerk of the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Deputy Clerk. The Clerk of the Municipal Court may appoint a deputy,
who shall have all the powers of the Clerk.
   (C)   Duties. The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall:
      (1)   Keep minutes of the proceedings of the Court;
      (2)   Issue all process; and
      (3)   Do and perform all duties of a clerk of court, as prescribed for a
clerk of the county court, insofar as the duties may be applicable to Municipal
Court.
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal court clerk, generally, see Tex. Gov’t Code § 29.010
§ 31.23  JUSTICE COURT RULES APPLICABLE.
   All rules of pleading, practice and procedure established for justice courts
shall apply in the Municipal Court so far as the same may be applicable.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.24  CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE APPLICABLE.
   All provisions of the State Code of Criminal Procedure regulating the amount
and collection of jury and witness fees, and for enforcing the attendance of
witnesses in criminal cases tried before a justice of the peace shall, so far
as applicable, govern and be applicable to the trial of cases before the
Municipal Court.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.25  CITY ATTORNEY CONDUCTING PROSECUTIONS; COUNTY ATTORNEY REPRESENTING
STATE.
   (A)   All prosecutions in the Municipal Court shall be conducted by the City
Attorney or his or her deputy.
   (B)   The County Attorney, if he or she so desires, may represent the state
in the prosecutions, but in all those cases, the County Attorney shall not be
entitled to receive any compensation whatever for the service.
   (C)   In no case shall the County Attorney have the power to dismiss any
prosecution pending in the Municipal Court unless for reasons filed and
approved by the Judge of the Court.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.26  PROSECUTIONS TO BE IN NAME OF STATE.
   (A)   All prosecutions in the Municipal Court, whether under an ordinance or
under the provisions of the Penal Code of the state, shall be commenced in the
name of the state, and shall conclude “against the peace and dignity of the
state”.
   (B)   Where the offense is covered by an ordinance, the complaint may also
conclude “as contrary to the ordinance” or “as contrary to Chapter            
, Section            , division            , of the City of Sour Lake Code of
Ordinances”.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.27  COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Form. Upon complaint being made before the Judge, City Attorney or
Clerk that an offense has been committed against the ordinances of the city or
against the Municipal Court has jurisdiction to try, the officer shall reduce
the same to writing and cause the same to be signed and sworn to by the
complainant.
   (B)   Execution. Each of the officers, for that purpose, shall have power to
administer oaths; and it shall be duly attested by the officer before whom it
was made and, when returned into Court, it shall be filed by the Clerk.
   (C)   Requisites. A complaint in the Municipal Court shall be deemed
sufficient without regard to form if it has these substantial requisites.
      (1)   It shall state the name of the accused, if known, and, if not
known, shall give some reasonably definite description of him or her.
      (2)   It shall state that the accused has committed some offense against
the laws of the state, naming the offense, or has committed some offense
against the ordinances of the city, naming the offense or that the affiant has
good reason to believe and does believe that the accused has committed the
offense.
      (3)   It shall state the time and place of the commission of the offense,
as definitely as can be done by the affiant.
      (4)   It shall be in writing and signed by the affiant if he or she is
able to write his or her name; otherwise, he or she may place his or her mark
at the foot of the complaint.
      (5)   It shall begin in the name of the state and conclude “against the
peace and dignity of the state”.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.28  TRIAL BY JURY.
   (A)   Waiver of. The defendant may waive trial by jury and, in that case,
the Judge shall proceed to hear and determine tho case.
   (B)   Challenges. In all jury trials in the Municipal Court, the city and
each of the defendants shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges, and to
any number of challenges for cause, which cause shall be judged of by the Judge
of the Court.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.29  JURORS.
   (A)   Summoning.
      (1)   If the defendant demands a jury, the Judge shall issue a writ,
commanding the Chief of Police to summon forthwith a jury of six persons,
residents of the city and qualified to serve as jurors in the county.
      (2)   The jurors, when so summoned, shall remain in attendance as jurors
until the case is tried or otherwise disposed of.
      (3)   If, from challenges or any other cause, a sufficient number of
jurors are not in attendance, the Judge shall order the Chief of Police to
summon further sufficient number of qualified persons to form a jury.
   (B)   Failure to attend. Any person summoned as a juror and failing to
attend, may be fined by the judge, as for contempt, as provided for in the
general penalty provision found in §
10.99.
   (C)   Oath. The following oath shall be administered to the jury by the
Judge of each case:
“You, and each of you, do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that
you will well and truly try the case about to be submitted to you, and a true
verdict render therein, according to the law and evidence, so help you God.”
   (D)   Fees. In case the defendant is convicted, a jury fee shall be taxed
against him or her and collected as other costs, and the fee, when collected,
shall be paid over to the jurors who tried the case.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.30  RIGHTS OF DEFENDANT.
   (A)   Trial without delay; continuances.
      (1)   Any case brought before the Municipal Court shall be tried without
delay, unless good grounds be shown for a continuance thereof, in which case
the Judge may continue the trial to some future time, not longer than five days
from the day that the case is first called for trial.
      (2)   The Judge may, if he or she deems it proper, require the defendant
to give bail for his or her appearance. If bail is required and defendant shall
fail to give same, he or she shall be kept in custody until the final
determination of the case.
   (B)   Entitled to one day’s notice of complaint. Each defendant in a
prosecution before the Municipal Court shall be entitled to at least one day’s
notice of any complaint against him or her, if the time be demanded.
   (C)   Apprising of charge.
      (1)   If a warrant has been issued upon complaint made to the Judge or
City Attorney, the complaint and warrant shall be read to the defendant.
      (2)   If issued by the Judge without previous complaint, he or she shall
state to the defendant the accusation against him or her.
   (D)   Discharging for informalities. A defendant shall not be discharged by
reason of any informality in the complaint or warrant.
   (E)   Counsel.
      (1)   The defendant shall have the right to appear by counsel, but not
more than one attorney shall conduct cither the prosecution or defense.
      (2)   Counsel for the city shall, in all cases, have the right to open
and conclude the argument.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.31  PLEAS.
   (A)   After the jury has been impaneled and sworn, the defendant shall be
requested to plead, and he or she may plead guilty or not guilty or a special
plea.
   (B)   The only special plea allowed shall be that of former conviction or
acquittal for the same offense.
   (C)   All pleadings shall be oral.
   (D)   The Judge shall note upon his or her docket the nature of the plea
offered.
   (E)   If the defendant pleads guilty, the Judge shall assess his or her
punishment; if he or she refuses to plead, the Judge shall enter a plea of not
guilty and the cause shall proceed accordingly.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.32  JURY DELIBERATIONS; DISCHARGE OF JURY AND RETRIAL.
   (A)   When the cause has been submitted to the jury, it shall retire in
charge of some officer and be kept together until it agrees upon a verdict, or
is discharged.
   (B)   If the jury fails to agree upon a verdict after being kept together a
reasonable length of time, it shall be discharged.
   (C)   If there is time left on the same day, another jury shall be
immediately impaneled to try the cause; or the Judge may adjourn the cause for
not more than two days and again impanel a jury for trial.
   (D)   In case of an adjournment, the Judge shall, if he or she sees fit,
require the defendant to enter into bond for his or her appearance and upon his
or her failure to give bond, he or she shall be held in custody.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.33  VERDICT, RENDERING JUDGMENT ON.
   When the jury has agreed upon a verdict, it shall bring the same into open
court and deliver it to the Judge, who shall see that it is in proper form,
enter it upon his or her docket, and render the proper judgment thereon.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.34  JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   Delivered in open court. All judgments and final orders of the Judge
shall be rendered in open court and entered upon his or her docket.
   (B)   Form. The judgment, in case of a conviction in a criminal action,
shall be that the city does have and recover of the defendant the fine assessed
and costs, and the defendant shall pay the fine and costs before being
discharged. Upon failure to pay the fine and costs, the defendant may be placed
to work to the extent permitted by law, not exceeding 15 days; and during the
time the defendant is working out the fine, he or she shall, in no event, be
allowed to go at large, but at all times, while not engaged at work upon the
streets, he or she shall be confined in jail.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.35  NEW TRIAL.
   (A)   The Judge may, for good cause shown, grant the defendant a new trial,
whenever he or she shall consider that justice has not been done in the trial
of his or her case.
   (B)   An application for a new trial shall be made within two days after the
rendition of judgment, and not afterwards, and the execution of judgment shall
not be stayed until a new trial has been granted.
   (C)   When a new trial has been granted, the Judge shall proceed, as soon as
is practicable, to try the case again, and not more than one new trial shall be
granted the defendant in the same case.
   (D)   In no case shall the city be entitled to a new trial.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.36  APPEALS.
   (A)   Authorized; rules.
      (1)   In all cases where the defendant has been convicted in the
Municipal Court, he or she shall have the right to appeal to the County Court.
      (2)   The appeals shall be governed by the rules of practice and
procedure from justice courts to the County Court insofar as the same may be
applicable.
   (B)   Stays proceedings in Municipal Court. When a defendant gives notice of
appeal and files his or her appeal bond, all proceedings in the case in the
Municipal Court shall cease.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.37  CUSTODY OF DEFENDANT PENDING APPEAL.
   In all cases of appeal from the Municipal Court, the defendant shall, if he
or she is in custody, be committed to jail unless he or she gives bond with two
good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Judge, in an amount not
less than double the amount of the fine and costs adjudged against him or her;
conditioned that, he or she shall prosecute his or her appeal with effect, and
shall pay the fine and costs as shall be adjusted against him or her by the
County Court, as well as all costs that may have been adjudged against him or
her by the Municipal Court. The appeal bond shall, in all cases, be filed
within ten days after the judgment of the Court’s refusing a new trial has been
rendered, and not afterward.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.38  COURT FEES.
   (A)   There shall be taxed against and collected of each defendant in case
of his or her conviction before the Municipal Court, the costs as may be
provided from time to time by ordinance.
   (B)   The Municipal Court is hereby authorized to collect a special expense
for services performed in cases in which the laws of the state require that the
case be dismissed because of actions by or on behalf of the defendant which
were subsequent to the date of the alleged offense. The actions are limited to
compliance with the provisions of subsection (a), § 143A, Uniform Act
Regulating Traffic on Highways (Tex. Trans. Code §§ 543.111 - 543.116. The
special expense shall not exceed the actual expenses incurred for the services
or $10, whichever is less.
   (C)   The Municipal Court is hereby authorized to require the person
requesting a driving safety course to pay a fee as provided for in the fee
schedule found in the appendix of this code, including any special fees
authorized by statute or municipal ordinance to cover the cost of
administration.
   (D)   All fees collected under this division by the Municipal Court shall be
deposited into the municipal treasury.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.39  DISPOSITION OF FINES AND COST.
   All fines and costs imposed by the Municipal Court, when collected, shall be
paid into the city treasury for the use and benefit of the city.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.40  AMENDMENT.
   This subchapter may be changed, altered, modified or repealed, in whole or
in part, at any time by the City Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.41  ACTION OF CITY COUNCIL.
   All actions of the City Council hereunder shall be in accordance with its
established rules of procedure.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.42  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in force, after its publication in
full, or publication of its descriptive caption or title in accordance with the
laws of the state with each subheading, published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 32:  RECORDS MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Definitions
   
32.02   Municipal records declared public property
   
32.03   Policy
   
32.04   Designation of Records Management Officer
   
32.05   Records management plan to be developed; approval of plan; authority of
plan
   
32.06   Duties of Records Management Officer
   
32.07   Duties and responsibilities of department heads
   
32.08   Records control schedules to be developed; approval; filing with state
   
32.09   Implementation of records control schedules; destruction of records
under schedule
   
32.10   Destruction of unscheduled records
§ 32.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. The officer who, by ordinance or administrative policy, is
in charge of an office of the city that creates or receives records.
   ESSENTIAL RECORD. Any record of the city necessary to the resumption or
continuation of its operations in an emergency or disaster, to the recreation
of its legal and financial status or to the protection and fulfillment of
obligations to the people of the state.
   MUNICIPAL RECORDS. All documents, papers, letters, books, maps, photographs,
sound or video recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape, electronic media or other
information recording media, regardless of physical form or characteristic and
regard less of whether public access to them is open or restricted under the
laws of the state, created or received by the city or any of its officers or
employees pursuant to law or in the transaction of public business are hereby
declared to be the records of the city and shall be created, maintained and
disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or procedures
authorized by it and in no other manner.
   PERMANENT RECORD. Any record of the city for which the retention period on a
records control schedule is given as permanent.
   RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE. A document prepared by or under the authority of
the Records Management Officer listing the records maintained by the city,
their retention periods and other records disposition information that the
records management program may require.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT.
      (1)   The application of management techniques to the creation, use,
maintenance, retention, preservation and disposal of records for the purposes
of reducing the costs and improving the efficiency of record keeping.
      (2)   The term includes the development of records control schedules, the
management of filing and information retrieval systems, the protection of
essential and permanent records, the economical and space-effective storage of
inactive records, control over the creation and distribution of forms, reports
and correspondence, and the management of micrographic and electronic and other
records storage systems.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER. The person designated in §
32.04.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN. The plan developed under §
32.05.
   RETENTION PERIOD. The minimum time that must pass after the creation,
recording or receipt of a record, or the fulfillment of certain actions
associated with a record, before it is eligible for destruction.
(Ord. passed 10-21-1991)
§ 32.02  MUNICIPAL RECORDS DECLARED PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All municipal records as defined in §
32.01 are hereby declared to be the property of the city. No municipal official
or employee has, by virtue of his or her position, any personal or property
right to the records even though he or she may have developed or compiled them.
The unauthorized destruction, removal from files or use of the records is
prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-21-1991)
§ 32.03  POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to provide for efficient,
economical and effective controls over the creation, distribution,
organization, maintenance, use and disposition of all municipal records through
a comprehensive system of integrated procedures for their management from
creation to ultimate disposition, consistent with the requirements of the State
Local Government Records Act and accepted records management practice.
(Ord. passed 10-21-1991)
§ 32.04  DESIGNATION OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Secretary, and the successive holders of the office, shall serve as
Records Management Officer for the city. As provided by state law, each
successive holder of the office shall file his or her name with the director
and librarian of the State Library within 30 days of the initial designation or
of taking up the office, as applicable.
(Ord. passed 10-21-1991)
§ 32.05  RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL OF PLAN; AUTHORITY
OF PLAN.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer shall develop a records management plan
for the city for submission to the City Council. The plan must contain policies
and procedures designed to reduce the costs and improve the efficiency of
record keeping, to adequately protect the essential records of the municipality
and to properly preserve those records of the municipality that are of
historical value. The plan must be designed to enable the Records Management
Officer to carry out his or her duties prescribed by state law and this chapter
effectively.
   (B)   Once approved by the City Council, the records management plan shall
be binding on all offices, departments, divisions, programs, commissions,
bureaus, boards, committees or similar entities of the city and records shall
be created, maintained, stored, microfilmed or disposed of in accordance with
the plan.
   (C)   State law relating to the duties, other responsibilities or record
keeping requirements of a department head do not exempt the department head or
the records in the department head’s care from the application of the ordinance
and the records management plan adopted under it and may not be used by the
department head as a basis for refusal to participate in the records management
program of the city.
(Ord. passed 10-21-1991)
§ 32.06  DUTIES OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this chapter, the Records Management
Officer shall:
   (A)   Administer the records management program and provide assistance to
department heads in its implementation;
   (B)   Plan, formulate and prescribe records disposition policies, systems,
standards and procedures;
   (C)   In cooperation with department heads, identify essential records and
establish a disaster plan for each municipal office and department to ensure
maximum availability of the records in order to reestablish operations quickly
and with minimum disruption and expense;
   (D)   Develop procedures to ensure the permanent preservation of the
historically valuable records of the city;
   (E)   Establish standards for filing and storage equipment and for record
keeping supplies;
   (F)   Study the feasibility of and, if appropriate, establish a uniform
filing system and a forms design and control system for the city;
   (G)   Monitor records retention schedules and administrative rules issued by
the State Library and Archives Commission to determine if the records
management program and the municipality’s records control schedules are in
compliance with state regulations;
   (H)   Disseminate to the City Council and department heads information
concerning state laws and administrative rules relating to local government
records;
   (I)   Ensure that the maintenance, preservation, microfilming, destruction
or other disposition of the records of the city are carried out in accordance
with the policies and procedures of the records management program and the
requirements of state law;
   (J)   Maintain records on the volume of records destroyed under approved
records control schedules or through records destruction authorization
requests, the volume of records microfilmed or stored electronically and the
estimated cost and space savings as the result of the disposal or disposition;
   (K)   Report annually to the City Council on the implementation of the
records management plan in each department of the city, including summaries of
the statistical and fiscal data compiled hereunder; and
   (L)   Bring to the attention of the City Council non-compliance by
department heads or other municipal personnel with the policies and procedures
of the records management program or the Local Government Records Act.
(Ord. passed 10-21-1991)
§ 32.07  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this chapter, department heads
shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with the Records Management Officer in carrying out the
policies and procedures established in the city for the efficient and
economical management of records and in carrying out the requirements of this
chapter;
   (B)   Adequately document the transaction of government business and the
services, programs and duties for which the department head and his or her
staff are responsible; and
   (C)   Maintain the records in his or her care and carry out their
preservation, microfilming, destruction or other disposition only in accordance
with the policies and procedures of the records management program of the city
and the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-21-1991)
§ 32.08  RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL; FILING WITH
STATE.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer, in cooperation with department heads,
shall prepare records control schedules on a department basis listing all
records series created or received by the department and the retention period
for each series. Records control schedules shall also contain other information
regarding the disposition of municipal records as the records management plan
may require.
   (B)   Each records control schedule shall be monitored and amended as needed
by the Records Management Officer on a regular basis to ensure that it is in
compliance with records retention schedules issued by the state and that in
continues to reflect the record keeping procedures and needs of the department
and the records management program of the city.
   (C)   Before its adoption, a records control schedule or amended schedule
for a department must be approved by the department head and the City Council.
   (D)   Before its adoption a records control schedule must be submitted to
and accepted for filing by the director and librarian as provided by state law.
If a schedule is not accepted for filing, the schedule shall be amended to make
it acceptable for filing. The Records Management Officer shall submit the
records control schedules to the director and librarian.
(Ord. passed 10-21-1991)
§ 32.09  IMPLEMENTATION OF RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES; DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS
UNDER SCHEDULE.
   (A)   A records control schedule for a department that has been approved and
adopted under this section shall be implemented by department heads according
to the policies and procedures of the records management plan.
   (B)   A record whose retention period has expired on a records control
schedule shall be destroyed, unless an open records request is pending on the
record, the subject matter of the record is pertinent to a pending law suit or
the department head requests in writing to the Records Management Officer that
the record be retained for an additional period.
   (C)   Prior to the destruction of a record under an approved records control
schedule, authorization for the destruction must be obtained by the Records
Management Officer from the City Council.
(Ord. passed 10-21-1991)
§ 32.10  DESTRUCTION OF UNSCHEDULED RECORDS.
   A record that has not yet been listed on an approved records control
schedule may be destroyed if its destruction has been approved in the same
manner as a record destroyed under an approved schedule and the Records
Management Officer has submitted to and received back from the director and
librarian an approved destruction authorization request.
(Ord. passed 10-21-1991)
CHAPTER 33:  CITY POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Claims for personal, property injury
   
33.02   Municipal retirement system
   
33.03   Fire exit drills in educational and health care occupancies
   
33.04   Residence homestead exemption for the elderly
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01  CLAIMS FOR PERSONAL, PROPERTY INJURY.
   (A)   The city shall never be liable for any claim for property damage or
for personal injury, whether the personal injury results in death or not,
unless the person damaged or injured, or someone in his or her behalf, or in
the event the injury results in death, the person or persons who may have a
cause of action under the law by reason of the death or injury, shall, within
60 days or within six months for good cause shown from the date the damage or
injury was received, give notice in writing to the Mayor and City Council of
the following facts:
      (1)   The date and time when the injury occurred and the place where the
injured person or property was at the time when the injury was received;
      (2)   The nature of the damage or injury sustained;
      (3)   The apparent extent of the damage or injury sustained;
      (4)   A specific and detailed statement of how and under what
circumstances the damage or injury occurred;
      (5)   The amount for which each claimants will settle;
      (6)   The actual place of residence of each claimant by street, number,
city and state on the date the claim is presented;
      (7)   In the case of personal injury or death, the names and addresses of
all persons who, according to the knowledge or information of the claimant
witnessed the happening of the injury or any part thereof and the names of the
doctors, if any, to whose care the injured person is committed; and
      (8)   In the case of property damage, the location of the damaged
property at the time the claim was submitted along with the names and addresses
of all persons who witnessed the happening of the damage or any part thereof.
   (B)   No suit of any nature whatsoever shall be instituted or maintained
against the city unless the plaintiff therein shall aver and prove that
previous to the filing of the original petition the plaintiff applied to the
City Council for redress, satisfaction, compensation or relief, as the case may
be, and that the same was by vote of the City Council refused.
   (C)   All notices required by this chapter shall be effectuated by serving
them upon the City Manager at the following location: 121 W. Barkley St., Sour
Lake, Texas; (do not use post office box address), and all notices shall be
effective only when actually received in the office of the person named above.
   (D)   Neither the Mayor, a City Council member or any other officer or
employee of the city shall have the authority to waive any of the provisions of
this section.
   (E)   The written notice required under this section shall be sworn to by
the person claiming the damage or injuries or by someone authorized by him or
her to do so on his or her behalf. Failure to swear to the notice as required
herein shall not render the notice fatally defective, but failure to so verify
the notice may be considered by the City Council as a factor relating to the
truth of the allegations and to the weight to be given to the allegations
contained therein.
   (F)   An emergency is apparent for the immediate preservation of order and
good government that requires this section to become effective at once;
therefore, upon passage of this section by a favorable vote of the Council, it
shall be effective from and after the date of its passage.
(Ord. 1986-4, passed 9-16-1986)
§ 33.02  MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Pursuant to Tex. Gov’t Code § 853.502, Subch. F of Ch. 853, Title 8,
as amended, the city hereby elects to allow eligible members in its employment
to establish credit in the state municipal retirement system for active
military service performed as a member of the armed forces or armed forces
reserves of the United States or an auxiliary of the armed forces or armed
forces reserves. Eligible members, as used herein, shall be those employees
meeting the criteria set forth in Tex. Gov’t Code §§ 853.502(b) and 853.503 of
Subch. F, and the amount and use of creditable military service shall be as
further set forth in Tex. Gov’t Code § 853.505.
   (B)   In order to establish credit for military service hereunder, a member
must file with the state municipal retirement system a written application for
the credit, together with satisfactory evidence of the member’s military
service.
   (C)   This section shall become effective on 5-1-2011.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2011)
§ 33.03  FIRE EXIT DRILLS IN EDUCATIONAL AND HEALTH CARE OCCUPANCIES.
   (A)   Fire exit drills shall be held at least once a month in education
occupancies and at least once every two months in health care occupancies. A
record of all fire exit drills shall be kept and persons in charge of the
occupancies shall be responsible for executing drills and keeping a record of
the drills, giving the time, date and number of minutes to complete drill.
   (B)   In educational occupancies, fire exit drills shall include complete
evacuation of all persons from the building. In health care occupancies, fire
exit drills shall be conducted to familiarize operating personnel with their as
signed positions of emergency duty.
   (C)   City hall shall be notified by telephone at the time of any fire exit
drills.
(Ord. passed 1-15-1980)  Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.04  RESIDENCE HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION FOR THE ELDERLY.
   (A)   Exemption. Upon compliance with all requirements of this section and
all other applicable laws and ordinances, $5,000 of the total assessed value of
residence homesteads of persons 65 years of age or older shall be exempt from
ad valorem taxes levied by the city.
   (B)   Application for exemption.
      (1)   The exemption provided for by this section shall not be allowed
unless the person claiming the exemption shall file with the City Tax Assessor-
Collector documentary proof of age satisfactory to the Tax Assessor-Collector
and a sworn claim for the exemption, describing the property for which
exemption is sought, on forms prescribed by the Tax Assessor-Collector, giving
complete information as provided for by the forms. The application for
exemption shall be made annually for each year that the exemption is sought.
      (2)   After the application, all necessary proof and any other necessary
information has been filed, the Tax Assessor-Collector shall determine
eligibility for the exemption. The determination of the Tax Assessor-Collector
shall be final and the property in question shall be placed on the tax rolls of
the city in accordance with the determination. However, in the event the Tax
Assessor-Collector should deny the application for exemption, notice shall be
given to the applicant within ten days of the determination and in any event no
later than the submission of all assessment lists to the Board of Equalization.
However, there shall be no appeal of the Tax Assessor-Collector’s
determination.
   (C)   Limitations of exemption. The exemption authorized shall extend only
to a residential homestead as same may be defined by the laws of the state. The
exemptions shall be allowed only if the property in question is in the face of
the residential homestead of the applicant and the person has attained the age
of 65 years on January 1 of the taxable year in question. The exemption shall
be granted if one has attained the age of 65 years on the applicable date even
though the other has not attained that age.
   (D)   Effective date. An emergency is apparent for the immediate
preservation of order, health, safety and general welfare of the public, which
emergency requires the suspension of the rule providing for the reading of an
ordinance on three separate days, and requires that this section become
effective immediately upon its passage, as provided by the charter of the city.
(Ord. 735, passed 9-12-1973)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating all or any part of §
33.03 shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to
exceed $200.
(Ord. passed 1-15-1980)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITIES
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
      
54.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Water and sewer rates
   
50.02   Bulk water rates
§ 50.01  WATER AND SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Prescribed charges.
      (1)   Each customer of the water supply system whose service is within
the city limits shall be assessed a minimum monthly charge of $14.75, plus a
monthly user charge of $2.47 per thousand gallons of water used.
      (2)   Each customer of the sanitary sewer system, whose service is within
the city limits, shall be assessed a minimum monthly charge of $14.75, plus a
monthly charge of $1.67 per thousand gallons of wastewater contributed to the
sanitary sewer system. The volume of the contribution shall be computed as 100%
of the water sold to the customer with the maximum usage being determined as
the average of the water sold to the customer for the months of November,
December, January and February.
      (3)   Rates for customers of the water supply and sanitary sewer system,
whose services are outside the city limits, shall be one and one-half times the
rates for customers whose services are within the city limits.
      (4)   If more than one residential or commercial unit per meter is
actively receiving water and/or sewer service, the minimum charge will apply
separately to each unit.
   (B)   Other charges/penalties.
      (1)   A reconnection fee of $50 will be charged before service can be
restored to any customer who has been disconnected for failure to pay user
charges.
      (2)   If water and sewer bills are not paid by the due date, a $5 late
fee will be added.
      (3)   A fee of $25 shall be assessed toward checks returned for
“insufficient fund”.
      (4)   After two call outs to a customer address within a calendar year, a
fee of $100 will be charged for each call out by the city or its contractors to
respond to maintenance or repairs to the city's equipment or facilities caused
by the neglect or improper use of the city's equipment or facilities by a
customer.
      (5)   A customer will be charged material costs associated with any
maintenance or repair to the city equipment or facilities caused by a
customer's negligence or improper use of the city equipment or facilities by
placement of any product, including but not limited to non-biodegradable or
non-dissolvable (i.e. grease) products in the city's wastewater system that
will damage the city equipment and facilities.
   (C)   Sufficiency of revenue. The City Council has determined that the water
and sewer charges prescribed in this section are necessary and sufficient to
cover all costs of debt service and operation and maintenance of the city’s
water supply, sewage collection and treatment system.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon its passage and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2011; Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 50.02  BULK WATER RATES.
   (A)   Bulk water sales shall be any unmetered delivery of water to
contractors or other users through hose attachments to fire hydrants or other
city apparatus.
   (B)   Each bulk water purchaser shall pay minimum $20 per day and $11 per
thousand gallons.
   (C)   The bulk water user shall be responsible for any damages to city fire
hydrants or apparatus which result from the user’s use and operation of those
facilities. The user shall also be required to see those city fire hydrants or
apparatus are secured such that no loss of water results during use or periods
of non-use. Failure to comply with this section will result in charges for
repair expenses being levied against the user and/or suspension of further
delivery of water to the user.
   (D)   In the event of a water supply emergency, the city may refuse to sell
water to bulk users and may suspend delivery to any bulk users for the duration
of the emergency.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect after its passage and
approval by the City Council and published in a newspaper.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2008)
CHAPTER 51:  SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Scope
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Collection operation
   
51.04   Persons required to keep containers
   
51.05   Garbage collection mandatory
   
51.06   Clearing construction debris for building operations
   
51.07   Industrial waste
   
51.08   Prohibiting accumulation of waste matter
   
51.09   Rates
   
51.10   Billing and collecting
   
51.11   Disconnection for late payment
   
51.12   Unauthorized use of service
   
51.13   Burning
   
51.14   Lien
   
51.15   Foreclosure of lien
   
51.16   Cumulative effect; effective date
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all territory within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)
§ 51.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAGS. Plastic sacks designed to store refuse with sufficient wall strength
to maintain physical integrity when lifted by the top. Total weight of a BAG
and its contents shall not exceed 35 pounds.
   BIN. Metal receptacle designed to be lifted and emptied mechanically for use
only at commercial and industrial units.
   BULKY WASTE. Stoves, refrigerators, water tanks, washing machines, furniture
and other waste materials other than construction debris, dead animals,
hazardous waste or stable matter with weights or volumes greater than those
allowed for bins or containers, as the case may be.
   BUNDLE. Tree, shrub and brush trimmings or newspapers and magazines securely
tied together forming an easily handled package not exceeding three feet in
length or 35 pounds in weight.
   CITY. City of Sour Lake, Hardin County, Texas.
   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL REFUSE. All bulky waste, construction debris,
garbage, rubbish and stable matter generated by a producer at a commercial and
industrial unit.
   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL UNITS. All premises, locations or entities, public
or private, requiring refuse collection within the corporate limits of the city
not a residential unit.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair or demolition operations.
   CONTAINER. A receptacle with a capacity of greater than 20 gallons, but less
than 35 gallons constructed of plastic, metal or fiberglass, having handles of
adequate strength for lifting, and having a tight-fitting lid capable of
preventing entrance into the container by vectors. The mouth of a CONTAINER
shall have a diameter greater than or equal to that of the base. The weight of
a CONTAINER and its contents shall not exceed 60 pounds.
   CONTRACTOR. A person, corporation or partnership performing refuse
collection and disposal under contract with the city, or under contract with
commercial or industrial producers.
   DEAD ANIMALS. Animals or portions thereof equal to or greater than ten
pounds in weight that have expired from any cause, except those slaughtered or
killed for human use.
   DISPOSAL SITE. A refuse depository, physically located in the county or in
close proximity thereto, including, but not limited to, sanitary landfills,
transfer stations, incinerators and waste processing separation centers
licensed, permitted or approved to receive for processing or final disposal of
refuse and dead animals by all governmental bodies and agencies having
jurisdiction and requiring the licenses, permits or approvals.
   GARBAGE. Any and all dead animals of less than ten pounds in weight, except
those slaughtered for human consumption; every accumulation of waste (animal,
vegetable and/or other matter) that results from the preparation, processing,
consumption, dealing in, handling, packing, canning, storage, transportation,
decay or decomposition of meats, fish, fowl, birds, fruits, grains or other
animal or vegetable matter (including, but not by way of limitation, used in
tin cans and other food containers; and all putrescible or easily decomposable
waste animal or vegetable matter which is likely to attract flies or rodents);
except (in all cases) any matter included in the definition of “bulky waste”,
“construction debris”, “dead animals”, “hazardous waste”, “rubbish” or “stable
matter”.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any chemical, compound, mixture, substance or article which
is designated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or
appropriate agency of the state to be “hazardous”, as that term is defined by
or pursuant to federal or state law now existing or hereafter amended.
   PRODUCER. An occupant of a commercial and industrial unit or a residential
unit who generates refuse.
   REFUSE. This term shall refer to residential refuse and bulky waste,
construction debris and stable matter generated at a residential unit, unless
the context otherwise requires, and commercial and industrial refuse.
   RESIDENTIAL REFUSE. All garbage and rubbish generated by a producer at a
residential unit.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A dwelling within the corporate limits of the city
occupied by a person or group of persons comprising not more than four
families. A RESIDENTIAL UNIT shall be deemed occupied when either water or
domestic light and power services are being supplied thereto. A condominium
dwelling, whether of single or multi-level construction, consisting of four or
less contiguous or separate single-family dwelling units, shall be treated as a
RESIDENTIAL UNIT, except that each single-family dwelling within any
RESIDENTIAL UNIT, shall be billed separately as a RESIDENTIAL UNIT.
   RUBBISH. All waste wood, wood products, tree trimmings, grass cuttings, dead
plants, weeds, leaves, dead trees or branches thereof, chips, shavings,
sawdust, printed matter, paper, pasteboard, rags, straw, used and discarded
mattresses, used and discarded clothing, used and discarded shoes and boots,
combustible waste pulp and other products such as are used for packaging, or
wrapping crockery and glass, ashes, cinders, floor sweepings, glass mineral or
metallic substances, and any and all other waste materials not included in the
definition of “bulky waste”, “construction debris”, “dead animals”, “garbage”,
“hazardous waste” or “stable matter”.
   STABLE MATTER. All manure and other waste matter normally accumulated in or
about a stable or any animal, livestock or poultry enclosure, and resulting
from the keeping of animals, poultry or livestock.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)
§ 51.03  COLLECTION OPERATION.
   (A)   Service provided.
      (1)   The city shall provide curbside collection service for the
collection of residential refuse to each residential unit two times per week.
Containers, bags and bundles shall be placed at curbside by 7:00 a.m. on the
designated collection day.
      (2)   The city may provide bin collection service for the collection of
commercial and industrial refuse to commercial and industrial units according
to individual agreement.
      (3)   The city may provide for the special collection from residential
units of bulky waste, construction debris and stable matter. Also, the city may
from time to time provide for the special collection of dead animals and
hazardous waste at commercial and industrial units and residential units at its
sole discretion and upon terms as city shall specify.
   (B)   Location of bins, containers, bags and bundles for collection.
      (1)   Each container, bag and bundle shall be placed at curbside for
collection. CURBSIDE refers to that portion of right-of-way adjacent to paved
or traveled city roadways (including alleys). Containers, bags and bundles
shall be placed as close to the roadway as practicable without interfering with
or endangering the movement of vehicles or pedestrians.
      (2)   When construction work is being performed in the right-of-way,
containers, bags and bundles shall be placed as close as practicable to an
access point for the collection vehicle.
      (3)   The city or its contractor may decline to collect any container,
bag and bundle not so placed.
      (4)   Contractors, outside of exclusive agreement, may contract
separately to provide bins for commercial and industrial units whenever
customers request their use. Each bin shall be placed in an accessible, outside
location on a hard surface according to individual agreement.
   (C)   Hours of operation.
      (1)   Collection of residential refuse shall not start before 7:00 a.m.
or continue after 9:00 p.m. on the same day. Exceptions to collection hours
shall be effected only when the city reasonably determines that an exception is
necessary in order to complete collection on an existing collection route due
to unusual circumstances.
      (2)   Contractors outside any exclusive agreement shall contract
separately to provide bins for commercial and industrial units whenever
customers request their use. Collection of commercial and industrial refuse
shall take place according to individual agreement.
   (D)   Holidays. For purposes of this chapter, the city shall observe those
holidays which are observed by the disposal site and/or those observed by any
contractor hired to perform collection service according to exclusive contract.
   (E)   Recycling. The city, at its discretion, may institute by separate
ordinance a recycling program or programs to augment the garbage collection
services provided for by this chapter. The program may be mandatory or
voluntary at the discretion of the City Council.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)
§ 51.04  PERSONS REQUIRED TO KEEP CONTAINERS.
   Every owner, agent, lessee, tenant or occupant or any house, building, flat,
apartment or tenement in the city, where persons reside, board or lodge or
where animal or vegetable food is prepared or served, shall provide the house,
building, flat, apartment or tenement, and at all times maintain in good order
and repair, a garbage or refuse container or containers for the deposit of
garbage and refuse for collection by the city. Suitable bags may be substituted
for the container or containers.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)
§ 51.05  GARBAGE COLLECTION MANDATORY.
   (A)   The charges for the removal and disposal of all garbage or other waste
materials shall be levied by the city against all owners, tenants or lessees
using or occupying any building house or structure receiving the service. Since
the proper and prompt removal of all garbage and other waste materials is
essential to the preservation of public health and safety, it is deemed
necessary that this charge be levied against every person, owner or occupant,
tenant or lessee, using or occupying any premises as a residence and thus
provide for more even and equitable distribution of the cost of this service to
the citizenship enjoying the benefits thereof.
   (B)   Where an apartment house or other building is served water through one
meter, the person in whose name the water accounts stands shall be responsible
for the payment of the garbage fee for all persons in the apartment or building
who are subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)
§ 51.06  CLEARING CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS FOR BUILDING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Rock, waste, scrap building materials or other trash resulting from
the construction or major remodeling, resulting from a general cleanup of
vacant or improved property just prior to its occupancy, or resulting from
sizeable amounts of trees, brush and debris cleared from property in
preparation for construction, will not be removed by the city as regular
service, but may be done for the owner on payment of an extra charge.
   (B)   The owner, at his or her option, will have the debris removed at his
or her expense by private haulers.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07  INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   All industrial wastes resulting from manufacturing operations must be
disposed of by the owner or occupant of the building or premises where the
industrial wastes originate.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08  PROHIBITING ACCUMULATION OF WASTE MATTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place,
deposit or throw, or permit or cause to be placed, deposited or thrown any
garbage, brush, rubbish or refuse of any kind, on public or private property
outside of any house, building, flat or tenement in the city, unless the same
has been deposited in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be unlawful and in
violation of this section, and subject to the penalties as provided by this
chapter, but the enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
      (1)   The discarding or dumping of any lawn trimmings, hedge trimmings or
any other cuttings or trimmings or weeds, flowers or other vegetation on lots,
vacant or occupied, driveways or any other private property.
      (2)   The throwing, placing, dumping or depositing of any lawn trimmings,
hedge trimmings or other cuttings or trimmings of weeds, flowers or other
vegetation in any gutter, street, sidewalk, parkway, driveway, curb, alley or
any other public property of the city.
      (3)   The throwing, placing, dumping or depositing of any garbage, refuse
or animal or vegetable in any gutter, street, sidewalk, parkway, driveway,
curb, alley or any other public property of the city.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit to be or
remain in or upon any premises, private or public, any animal, vegetable or
mineral matters of any composition or residue thereof, which is an unsanitary
condition or injurious to public health, and after any of such has remained
upon any premises, public or private, for more than seven days it will be
presumed that same is an unsanitary condition and injurious to public health.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall
be subject to the penalties herein provided.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09  RATES.
   (A)   The general and reasonable rates for collecting garbage under the
provisions of this chapter shall be determined and fixed from time to time by
the City Council.
   (B)   The collection rates shall be in an amount necessary to meet the cost
of services contemplated hereby.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)
§ 51.10  BILLING AND COLLECTING.
   For the purposes of convenience, the billing and collecting of the charges
levied for the service by this chapter shall be done by the Water Department of
the city and all charges shall be payable at the office of the Water Department
of the city in the same manner as other utilities services are billed and
collected by the Water Department.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)
§ 51.11  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.  The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and contentions to the city official in charge of utility
billing.  This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.  In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $50.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)
§ 51.12  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, tenant or lessee, using
or occupying a building, house or structure as a separate unit to utilize the
garbage containers or receptacles of another owner, occupant, tenant or lessee
for the disposal of his or her own refuse or garbage and, in this manner, evade
the payment of the fees levied by this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to meddle with
any garbage container or trash receptacle or to scatter the contents thereof,
unless the container or receptacle is owned or controlled by the person, or
unless the person is an authorized collector of the contents under this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13  BURNING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any garbage, bulky waste,
hazardous waste, dead animals, rags, clothing, shoes, boots, mattresses,
packaging materials or petroleum products within the city limits.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.14  LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for garbage shall be a lien upon the premises. Whenever a bill
for garbage service remains unpaid 60 days after it has been rendered, the
Clerk may file with the County Clerk a statement of lien claim. This statement
shall contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the
unpaid bill, and a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount as well
as for all charges for garbage service subsequent to the period covered by the
bill.
   (B)   If the consumer of garbage whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of
the premises, and the Clerk has notice of this, then notice shall be mailed to
the owner of the premises, if his or her address is known to the Clerk,
whenever the bills remain unpaid for a period of 60 days after it has been
rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the Clerk to record the lien claim or to mail the
notice, or the failure of the owner to receive the notice, shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid garbage bills as mentioned in the
following section.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)
§ 51.15  FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   (1)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid garbage charges shall be
sold for non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied
to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens.
      (2)   The foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the city.
   (B)   The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute the
proceedings, in the name of the city, in any court having jurisdiction over
those matters, against any property for which the garbage bill has remained
unpaid 60 days after it has been rendered.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)
§ 51.16  CUMULATIVE EFFECT; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be held and construed to be cumulative of all other
ordinances affecting the collection and disposal of garbage, brush and other
waste materials in the city, except in those instances where the provisions of
this chapter are in conflict with the provisions of ordinances heretofore
passed.
   (B)   This chapter shall take effect from and after five days after
publication and, in this connection, the City Clerk is hereby directed to
publish the descriptive caption of this chapter, stating in summary the purpose
of the chapter and the penalty for violation thereof.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   Any corporation, firm, agent or person violating any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $1, nor
more than $200. Each violation or days of continuing violation shall constitute
a separate offense. The city shall have the power to enforce the provisions of
this chapter through civil court action.
(Ord. passed 9-18-1990)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER
Section
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Quality of water supply; water supply mandatory
   
52.04   Plumbing standards
   
52.05   Power to enter property
   
52.06   User charges
   
52.07   Authority to disconnect service
   
52.08   Requirements for service
   
52.09   Failure to pay
   
52.10   Injury to water system
   
52.11   Effective date
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to establish standards for the use of
the city’s potable water facilities in order to maintain the systems financial
stability and to protect the health and safety of its citizens and the public.
(Ord. passed 8-17-1993)
§ 52.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Tense, gender and number. For the purpose of this chapter, certain
abbreviations, terms, phrases, words and their derivatives shall be construed
as set forth in this section.
   (B)   Words not defined. Words not defined herein shall have the meanings
stated in the Standard Building Code, Standard Mechanical Code, Standard Gas
Code or Standard Fire Prevention Code. Words not defined in the standard codes
shall have the meanings stated in the Webster’s Ninth New Collegiate
Dictionary, as revised.
   (C)   Definitions of terms. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSIBLE. Having access to but which first may require the removal of a
panel door or similar covering of the item described. See READILY ACCESSIBLE.
      AIR GAP (WATER DISTRIBUTION). A water supply system, the unobstructed
vertical distance through the free atmosphere between the lowest opening from
any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device
and the flood-level rim of the receptacle.
      AND/OR. A choice of two code provisions, signifies that use of both
provisions will satisfy the code requirement and use of either provision is
acceptable also.
      APPROVED. Approved by the city or other authority having jurisdiction.
      BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable supply of water from any source or sources
other than its intended source. See BACK-SIPHONAGE.
      BACKFLOW CONNECTION. Any arrangement whereby backflow can occur.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device which prevents the reverse flow of water due
to atmospheric or higher pressure by means of positive check members in
addition to atmospheric ports which provide back-siphonage protection.
      BACK-SIPHONAGE. The flowing back of used, contaminated or polluted water
from a plumbing fixture or vessel into a water supply pipe due to a negative
pressure in the pipe. See BACKFLOW.
      CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other water of unknown or questionable safety, whereby water may flow from one
system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure
differential between the two systems. See BACKFLOW and BACK- SIPHONAGE.
      DIAMETER. The nominal diameter as designed commercially, unless otherwise
stated.
      EFFECTIVE OPENING. The minimum cross-sectional area at the point of water
supply discharge, measured or expressed in terms of diameter of a circle, or if
the opening is not circular, the diameter of a circle of equivalent cross-
sectional area. Applicable to air gap.
      FIXTURE SUPPLY. A water supply pipe connecting the fixture with the
fixture branch.
      FLOOD LEVEL RIM. The top edge of the receptacle from which water
overflows.
      FLUSH TANK. A tank located above or integral with water closets, urinals
or similar fixtures for the purpose of flushing the usable portion of the
fixture.
      FLUSH VALVES. A device located at the bottom of the tank for the purpose
of flushing water closets and similar fixtures.
      FLUSHOMETER TANK. A device integrated within an air accumulators vessel
which is designed to discharge a predetermined quantity of water to fixtures
for flushing purposes.
      FLUSHOMETER VALVE. A device which discharges a predetermined quantity of
water to fixtures for flushing purposes and is actuated by direct water
pressure.
      FROSTPROOF CLOSET. A hopper that has no water in the bowl and has the
trap and the control valve for its water supply installed below the frost line.
      LEAD FREE PIPE AND FITTINGS. Containing not more than 8% lead.
      LEAD FREE SOLDER AND FLUX. Containing not more than 0.2% lead.
      LISTED. Equipment or materials included in a list published by an
approved nationally recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other
organization concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic
inspection of production of listed equipment or materials, and whose listing
states either that the equipment or material meets nationally recognized
standards or has been tested and found suitable for use in a specified manner.
The means for identifying LISTED equipment may vary for each testing
laboratory, inspection agency or other organization concerned with product
evaluation, some of which do not recognize equipment as listed unless it is
also labeled. The city should utilize the system employed by the listing
organization to identify a listed product.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      NON-POTABLE WATER. In addition to its ordinary meaning includes water of
questionable potability on the discharge side of a backflow preventer used to
isolate a portion of a water supply system from the remainder of the water
supply due to backflow connections.
      NUISANCE. Public nuisance as known at common law or in equity
jurisprudence; and whatever is dangerous to human life or detrimental to
health; whatever building, structure or premises is not sufficiently
ventilated, sewered, drained, cleaned or lighted, in reference to its intended
or actual use; and whatever renders the air or human food or drink or water
supply unwholesome.
      PERSON. A natural person, his or her heirs, executors, administrators or
assigns; and includes a firm, partnership or corporation, its or their
successors or assigns. Singular includes plural; male includes female.
      PLUMBING FIXTURES. Installed receptacles, devices or appliances which are
supplied with water or which receive or discharge liquids or liquid-borne
wastes, with or without discharge into the drainage system with which they may
be directly or indirectly connected.
      PLUMBING SYSTEM. Includes the water supply and distribution pipes;
plumbing fixtures and traps; soil, waste, and vent pipes; building drains and
building sewers including their respective connections, devices and
appurtenances within the property lines of the premises, and water treating or
water using equipment.
      POTABLE WATER. Water which is satisfactory for drinking, culinary and
domestic purposes, and which meets the requirements of the Health Authority
having jurisdiction.
      PRIVATE or PRIVATE USE. The classification of plumbing fixtures, private
applies to fixtures in residences or apartments and to fixtures in private
bathrooms of hotels and similar installations where the fixtures are intended
for the use of a family or an individual.
      PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer privately owned and not directly controlled by the
city.
      PUBLIC or PUBLIC USE. The classification of plumbing fixtures, public
applies to fixtures in general, toilet rooms of schools, gymnasiums, hotel and
motel lobbies, airports, bus and railroad stations, office buildings, public
buildings, stadiums, department and mercantile stores, public comfort stations,
bars, restaurants, commercial buildings or places to which the public is
invited or which are frequented by the public without special permission or
special invitation, and other installations (whether pay or free) where a
number of fixtures are installed so that their use is similarly unrestricted.
      READILY ACCESSIBLE. Having access without the need of removing any panel,
door or similar covering of the item described. See ACCESSIBLE.
      SHALL. The word “shall” is a mandatory term.
      VACUUM BREAKER. A device which prevents back-siphonage of water by
admitting atmospheric pressure through ports to the discharge side of the
device.
      WATER DISTRIBUTION PIPE. The piping within a building or structure which
conveys cold or hot water from the water service pipe to the plumbing fixtures
and other water outlets.
      WATER MAIN. A water supply pipe or system of pipes, installed and
maintained by a city, township, county or public utility company, on public
property, in the street or approved dedicated easement for public or community
use.
      WATER OUTLET. Used in connection with the water distribution system, the
discharge opening for the water:
         (a)   To a fixture;
         (b)   To atmospheric pressure (except into an open tank which is part
of the water supply system);
         (c)   To a boiler or heating system; and
         (d)   To any water-operated device or equipment requiring water to
operate, but not a part of the plumbing system.
      WATER RISER PIPE. See RISER.
      WATER SERVICE PIPE. The pipe from the water main, water meter, water
supply system or other approved source of water supply to the building or
structure served.
      WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. The water supply piping that is installed and
maintained by the owner or owners on the premises or private property from the
discharge side of the meter, the water main or other approved sources of water
supply. This system includes the necessary connecting pipes, fittings, control
valves, all appurtenances connected thereto and includes fire protection piping
if not installed as a separate system.
(Ord. passed 8-17-1993)
§ 52.03  QUALITY OF WATER SUPPLY; WATER SUPPLY MANDATORY.
   (A)   All buildings. structures and premises intended for human habitation,
occupancy, use for employment; or the preparation or processing of food, drinks
or other materials for human consumption shall be provided with an adequate,
safe and potable water supply through a safe system of piping to all fixtures,
appliances, appurtenances and the like.
   (B)   All independent buildings, structures and premises connected to the
city’s wastewater collection system must also be serviced by an approved
metered connection to the city’s water distribution system.
   (C)   (1)   Non-potable water shall not be supplied to any fixture
customarily classified a “plumbing fixture” and may only be used to supply
industrial equipment or other appliances which do not require a potable supply
of water and provided the non-potable water shall not be accessible for
drinking, culinary or bathing purposes.
      (2)   (a)   All piping and outlets conveying non-potable water shall be
adequately and durably identified by a distinctive yellow-colored paint so that
it is readily distinguished from piping carrying potable water.
         (b)   Where non-potable water is used, all valves, branch fittings and
branch terminals shall be identified by the words “non-potable water”. The
identification shall not be concealed by pipe insulation and when insulated the
insulation shall be painted the same color as is required for the pipe.
Maintenance of all identification shall be the responsibility of the owner.
(Ord. passed 8-17-1993)
§ 52.04  PLUMBING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Water service pipe and fittings.
      (1)   Materials underground.
         (a)   Materials for underground water service pipe and lawn sprinkler
systems shall be type M copper tube, brass, cast iron pressure pipe, galvanized
steel or pressure-rated plastic. Water pipe and fittings with more than 8% lead
shall not be used. The minimum working pressure of plastic piping installed
outside of the foundation walls shall be 1.60 psi at 73°F, with permanent
identification markings.
         (b)   Materials subject to corrosion shall be protected when installed
in corrosive soils. Approved fittings shall be used on the water supply system;
except that, changes of direction in copper tube (ASTM B SB) may be made with
bends having a radius of not less than four diameters of the tube; providing
that, the bends are made by use of forming equipment which does not deform or
create loss in cross-sectional area of the tube.
         (c)   All pipes, pipe fittings, solder and flux used in the
installation of water supply systems shall be lead free.
         (d)   Exception: leaded joints may be used for the repair of existing
cast iron pipes.
      (2)   Water service piping.
         (a)   Size. Water service lines shall be sized or designed in
accordance with accepted engineering practice, but in no case shall it be less
than three-fourths inch nominal diameter.
         (b)   Service lines near drain or sewer line. Except as permitted in
division (A)(2)(c) below, the underground water service pipe and the building
drain or building sewer shall not be less than five feet apart horizontally and
shall be separated by undisturbed or compacted earth.
         (c)   Permitted installation near drain or sewer line. The water
service pipe may be placed in the same trench with the building drain and
building sewer provided the following conditions are met.
            1.   The bottom of the water service pipe, at all points, shal1 be
at least 12 inches above the top of the sewer line at its highest point.
            2.   The water service pipe shall be placed on a solid shelf
excavated at one side of the common trench.
         (d)   Stop and waste valves and devices. Combination stop and waste
valves and cocks shall not be installed underground in a water supply system.
Any fixture or device which incorporates a stop and waste feature is prohibited
if the waste opening is underground or in any location that waste water or
water-borne contaminates may enter the device or water supply from the ground
or other source by reversal of flow.
   (B)   Water distribution pipe, tubing and fittings.
      (1)   Materials.
         (a)   Above ground. Materials for water-distribution pipes and tubing
shall be brass, copper water tube minimum type M, stain1ess steel water tube
minimum grade H, cast iron pressure pipe, galvanized steel, chlorinated
polyvinyl chloride (CPVC) or polybutylene (PB) plastic pipe or tubing all to be
installed with approved fittings; except that, changes in direction in copper
tube (ASTM B 88) may be made with bends having a radius of not less than four
diameters of the tube; providing that, the bends are made by use of forming
equipment which does not deform or create a loss in cross-sectional area of the
tube.
         (b)   Under ground. Inaccessible water distribution piping under slabs
shall be copper water tube minimum type M, brass, cast iron pressure pipe,
galvanized steel pipe, chlorinated polyvinyl chloride (CPVC) or polybutylene
(PB) plastic pipe or tubing, all to be installed with approved fittings or
bends. Any material subject to corrosion shall be protected when used in
corrosive soils.
         (c)   Minimum working pressure. Minimum working pressure for plastics
hot and cold piping material shall be 100 psi at 180 F°.
         (d)   Lead free. All pipes, pipe fittings, solder and flux used in the
installation of water distribution systems shall be lead free.
      (2)   Exception. Leaded joints may be used for the repair of existing
cast iron pipes.
   (C)   Water supply control. An accessible shutoff valve shall be provided on
the consumer’s premises ahead of the first outlet or branch connection to the
service or distribution pipe. When the shutoff valve is located in the service
pipe outside the building, it shall be located and accessible in a valve box
with a readily removable access cover which extends to grade level. When drain
valves are provided for the distribution piping or other portion of the water
supply system, the drains shall be above grade or otherwise located to prevent
the possibility of backflow into the piping system after the system has been
drained.
   (D)   Protection of potable water supply.
      (1)   Backflow.
         (a)   The water distribution system shall be protected against
backflow. Every water outlet shall be protected from backflow, preferably by
having the outlet end from which the water flows spaced a distance above the
flood level rim of the receptacle into which the water flows sufficient to
provide a “minimum required air gap” of one inch. Where it is not possible to
provide a minimum air gap, the water outlet shall be equipped with an
accessible backflow preventer. Adequate protection shall be provided to prevent
possible backflow or back siphonage of an unsafe or potentially hazardous fluid
or material into a safe water system. Devices installed in a potable water
supply for protection against backflow shall be maintained in good working
condition by the person or persons having control of the devices. City
officials may inspect the devices and, if they are found to be defective or
inoperative, shall require the replacement thereof.
         (b)   Flushometer valves shall be equipped with an approved vacuum
breaker. The vacuum breaker shall be installed on the discharge side of the
flushing valve with the critical level at least four inches above the overflow
rim of the bowl. Flushometer tanks shall be provided with an approved backflow
prevention device installed above the flood level rim of the fixture.
         (c)   Flush tanks shall be equipped with an approved ballcock. The
ballcock shall be installed with the critical level of the vacuum breaker at
least one inch above the full opening of the overflow pipe. In cases where the
ballcock has no hush tube, the bottom of the water supply inlet shall be
installed at least one inch above the full opening of the overflow pipe.
         (d)   Lawn sprinklers and irrigation piping system shall be equipped
with an approved backflow preventer to protect against contamination of the
potable water system. The following devices shall be acceptable:
            1.   Anti-siphon vacuum breakers, reduced pressure zone backflow
preventer equipped with gate valves and test cocks;
            2.   Atmospheric type vacuum breakers shall be installed downstream
of the last control valve at least six inches above the level of the highest
sprinkler head; and
            3.   All protective devices shall be installed in an accessible
location to allow for inspection and maintenance and to isolate the sprinkler
system from all other piping in the system.
         (e)   Fixture valve outlets with hose attachments, hose bibs and lawn
hydrants shall be protected by an approved back-siphonage backflow preventer or
vacuum breaker on the discharge side of the valve. Back-siphonage backflow
preventers may be installed directly on hose outlet connection threads. Vacuum
breakers shall be installed at least six inches above the highest point of
usage.
         (f)   In areas subject to temperatures of 32°F or below, all hose bibb
vacuum breakers shall be of the design that the hydrant may be drained without
removing the backflow preventer from the hydrant. Regardless of area
temperature, hose bibb vacuum breakers shall be designed and installed to
prevent total removal from the hose bibb after installation in accordance with
the provisions of this code and the manufacturer’s instructions.
         (g)   A backflow preventer device which will automatically vent to
atmosphere shall be installed in the water supply line to all steam and hot
water space heating boilers, heat exchangers and similar devices, being
supplied from the potable water system. The devices shall prevent back-
siphonage and backflow from the heating system into the potable supply lines
should the supply pressure fall below the pressure in the heating system. The
devices shall meet the requirements of ASSE 1012 or 1013, and shall bear the
identification as is required by the applicable standard.
         (h)   Backflow preventers shall not be buried and shall be so
installed and so located as to prevent any relief opening from being submerged.
When backflow preventers are installed in vaults (pits) which extend below
grade level, relief outlets shall be piped full size directly to the outside of
the vault, with relief piping terminating in a downward direction at a point
not less than 12 inches above grade. An opening shall be provided in the vault
wall at one-half the distance between the relief piping terminus and grade.
This opening shall be at least four times the diameter of the relief outlet
piping or, if smaller openings are desired, they shall be not less than four in
number, each being one and one-half times the diameter of the relief outlet
pipe. Sufficient clearance from the device on all sides shall be provided to
permit testing in place or removal for maintenance. Vault installations are not
recommended and shall be avoided, except where necessary to protect the device
from damage. In any case, vaults shall be so constructed and equipped with
positive drain openings as to prevent any part of the device from being
submerged.
         (i)   All pressure type backflow preventers which are designed for
periodic field testing after installation in the pipe line shall be equipped
with gate valves on both the inlet and the outlet side of the backflow
preventer. In addition, test cocks shall be provided and so located that test
equipment, gages and the like may be connected to the device at points that the
pressure in each pressure zone may be detected and, in addition, a test cock
shall be located upstream of the upstream gate valve or installed in a special
tapping on the upstream side of the upstream gate valve. But, in any case, the
test cock shall be accessibly located as close to the device as practical.
Where applicable approved standards specify otherwise, the location of test
cocks shall be by the standard.
      (2)   Cross-connections.
         (a)   There shall be no direct or indirect cross connections, either
existing or potential, between a safe potable water supply and an unsafe, non-
potable supply.
         (b)   No private supply shall be interconnected with a public water
supply.
      (3)   Protection against contamination.
         (a)   No water service connections to any premises shall be installed
or maintained unless the potable water and water supply are protected against
actual or potential contamination of pollution in the manner required.
         (b)   In the event of contamination or pollution of a potable water
system, the consumer shall notify immediately the city or the Health Officer in
order that appropriate measures may be taken to overcome the contamination or
pollution.
(Ord. passed 8-17-1993)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05  POWER TO ENTER PROPERTY.
   (A)   Authorized city personnel bearing proper credentials and
identification are entitled to enter any public or private property at any
reasonable time for the purpose of enforcing this chapter.
   (B)   Anyone acting under this authority shall observe the establishment’s
rules and regulations concerning safety, internal security and fire protection.
   (C)   Except when caused by negligence or failure of users to maintain safe
conditions, the city shall indemnify the users against loss or damage to their
property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the users and growing out
of the sampling operation.
   (D)   Authorized city personnel (including contractors duly authorized by
the city) bearing proper credentials and identification are entitled to enter
all private properties through which the city holds a negotiated easement for
the purposes of:
      (1)   Inspection, observation, measurement, sampling or repair;
      (2)   Maintenance of any portion of the water system lying within the
easements; and
      (3)   Conducting any other authorized activity. All activities shall be
conducted in full accordance with the terms of the negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. passed 8-17-1993)
§ 52.06  USER CHARGES.
   Water service charges and fees shall be set by City Council by separate rate
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 8-17-1993)
§ 52.07  AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   (A)   The city may terminate water and wastewater disposal service and
disconnect a user from the system when:
      (1)   User fails to pay monthly bills for water, sanitary sewer and
garbage services when due; or
      (2)   A violation of this chapter exists on the premises and other
precautionary measures shall be taken as are deemed necessary to eliminate any
danger to the potable water. Water service shall not be restored until the
danger has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   If service is discontinued pursuant to division (A)(2) above, the city
shall serve the user with a written notice of the violation describing the
nature of the violation and prescribing a reasonable time limit for its
correction.
   (C)   Payment of a bill with an NSF check or check drawn on a closed account
shall be considered a non-payment in determining the application of penalties
and or disconnection of service.
(Ord. passed 8-17-1993)
§ 52.08  REQUIREMENTS FOR SERVICE.
   The city shall provide service to those users who have:
   (A)   Complied with the terms of this chapter;
   (B)   Made application for service on form provided by the city;
   (C)   Paid all deposits, tap fees or other fees required by the city in the
current rate and service fee ordinances;
   (D)   Paid all outstanding and unpaid service fees, reconnect fees or other
fees from any and all past accounts for which the user or users were a
responsible party; and
   (E)   Complied with all ordinances of the city affecting the property/
location where service is requested including, but not limited to, weed, trash,
animal and nuisance ordinances and also any flood control or land use
regulation ordinances.
(Ord. passed 8-17-1993)
§ 52.09  FAILURE TO PAY.
   In addition to sanctions provided for by this chapter, the city is entitled
to exercise sanctions provided for by the other ordinances of the city for
failure to pay the bill for water and sanitary sewer service when due.
(Ord. passed 8-17-1993)
§ 52.10  INJURY TO WATER SYSTEM.
   No person shall injure, break or remove any portion, or any part of the
city’s water system. Any person desiring to lay or drive any pipe, in any
streets containing water lines, or to uncover any city water line, shall give
at least 24 hours’ notice to the Superintendent.
(Ord. passed 8-17-1993)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its final
passage, approval, recording and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 8-17-1993)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person violates any provision of this chapter, and thereby
violates a state or federal statute or injunction, the city may seek
prosecution of that person in the appropriate state or federal court, and may
seek the penalties as are prescribed by that statute or injunction.
   (B)   If any person violates any provision of this chapter, and the
violation is not punishable in state or federal courts, that person shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor upon conviction in the City Court. Each offense shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $500. Each day of the violation shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city of expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by
reason of the violation.
   (D)   The city may pursue all criminal and civil remedies to which it is
entitled under authority of statutes and ordinances against a person
negligently, willfully or maliciously causing loss by tampering with or
destroying public water distribution or treatment facilities.
(Ord. passed 8-17-1993)
CHAPTER 53:  DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
Section
   
53.01   Planning area description
   
53.02   Water system description
   
53.03   Program goals
   
53.04   Long-term water conservation plan elements education and information
programs
   
53.05   Meter repair or replacement
   
53.06   Means of implementation and enforcement
   
53.07   Provisions for periodic review and evaluations of the water
conservation program
   
53.08   Coordination with regional water planning groups
   
53.09   Authorization
   
53.10   Application
   
53.11   Definitions
   
53.12   Triggering criteria for initiation and termination of drought response
stages
   
53.13   Emergency water demand management plan procedure for program
implementation trigger conditions and level of severity
   
53.14   Emergency water demand response measures
   
53.15   Initiation procedures
   
53.16   Termination notification actions
   
53.17   Means of implementation
   
53.18   Water rationing
   
53.19   Single-family residential customers
   
53.20   Master-metered multi-family residential customers
   
53.21   Commercial customers
   
53.22   Industrial customers
   
53.23   Enforcement
   
53.24   Variances
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01  PLANNING AREA DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   The city is located in Hardin County, 18 miles southwest of Kountze
and 13 miles west of Beaumont.
   (B)   The main attractions are the school district and the history of the
city.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.02  WATER SYSTEM DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   The city’s water supply comes from two wells. Well #3 has a flow rate
of 850 and Well #4 has a flow rate of 600. The city has two ground storage
tanks and one elevated tank. Both wells and one ground storage tank are located
on Highway 105, four miles west of town. The storage tank has a capacity of
150,000 gallons.
   (B)   The other ground storage tank on South Ann and has a capacity of
400,000 gallons.
   (C)   The elevated storage tank is located on Highway 326 and holds 100,000
gallons.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.03  PROGRAM GOALS.
   Furnish an adequate supply of good, clean water using the guidelines as set
forth by TCEQ.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.04  LONG-TERM WATER CONSERVATION PLAN ELEMENTS EDUCATION AND INFORMATION
PROGRAMS.
   The city will have available to the public pamphlets on:
   (A)   Conservation;
   (B)   Toilet tank leak detectors; and
   (C)   Summer lawn watering guides.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.05  METER REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT.
   This system is now providing an accurate accounting of the water produced
for consumption through metering. This program, along with the conservation
plan, should reduce the consumption by more than the targeted 10% value.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.06  MEANS OF IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Manager and Public Works Director will be responsible for all
records keeping and for verifying that the program is working. In conjunction
with the plan, the city will perform the following tasks:
   (A)   Adoption of an ordinance implementing this plan along with the
penalties associated with citizens’ failure to comply with the plan intent; and
   (B)   Adoption of a resolution supporting this plan and its goals.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.07  PROVISIONS FOR PERIODIC REVIEW AND EVALUATIONS OF THE WATER
CONSERVATION PROGRAM.
   The Public Works Director will be responsible for preparing and submitting
an annual report to the City Manager and the report will contain state water
levels of each well, the effectiveness of the plan at conserving water and
public acceptance of the plan.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.08  COORDINATION WITH REGIONAL WATER PLANNING GROUPS.
   The service area of the city is located within the Deep East Texas Region
and the city has provided a copy of this plan to the Deep East Texas Region.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.09  AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby authorized and
directed to implement the applicable provisions of this plan upon determination
that the implementation is necessary to protect public health, safety and
welfare.
   (B)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall have the authority to
initiate or terminate drought or other water supply emergency response measures
as described in this plan.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.10  APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this plan shall apply to all persons, customer and
property utilizing water provided by the city.
   (B)   The terms “person” and “customer” as used in the plan include
individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations and all other legal
entities.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.11  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE. Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such as
fountains, reflecting pools and water gardens.
   COMMERCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE. Water use which is integral to the
operations of commercial and non-profit establishments and governmental
entities such as retail establishments, hotels and motels, restaurants and
office buildings.
   CONSERVATION. Those practices, technologies that reduce the consumption of
water, reduce the loss of waste of water, improve the efficiency in the use of
water or increase the recycling and reuse of water so that a supply is
conserved and made available for future or alternative uses.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, company or organization using water supplied by the
city.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE. Water use for personal needs or for household or
sanitary purposes such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation or
for cleaning a residence, business, industry or institution.
   EVEN NUMBER ADDRESS. Street addresses, box numbers or rural postal route
numbers ending in 0, 2, 4, 6 or 8 and locations without addresses.
   INDUSTRIAL WATER USE. The use of water in processes designed to convert
materials of lower value into forms having greater usability.
   LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION USE. Water used for the irrigation and maintenance of
landscaped areas, whether publicity or privately owned, including residential
and commercial lawns, gardens, golf courses, parks and rights-of-way and
medians.
   NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Water uses that are neither essential nor required
for the protection of public health, safety and welfare, including:
      (1)   Irrigation of landscape areas, including parks, athletic fields and
golf courses, except otherwise provided under this plan;
      (2)   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat, trailer,
airplane or other vehicle;
      (3)   Use of water to wash down any sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts or other hard-surfaced areas;
      (4)   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for purposes
other than immediate fire protection;
      (5)   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run accumulate in any
gutter or street;
      (6)   Use of water to fill, refill or add to any outdoor swimming pools
or Jacuzzi-type pools;
      (7)   Use of water in a fountain or pond for aesthetic or scenic
purposes, except where necessary to support aquatic life;
      (8)   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a reasonable period
after having been giving notice directing the repair of the leak(s); and
      (9)   Use of water from hydrants for construction purposes or any other
purposes other than firefighting.
   ODD NUMBERED ADDRESS. Street addresses, box numbers or rural postal route
numbers ending in 1, 3, 5, 7 or 9.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.12  TRIGGERING CRITERIA FOR INITIATION AND TERMINATION OF DROUGHT RESPONSE
STAGES.
   The City Manager or his or her designee shall monitor water supply and/or
demand conditions on a monthly basis and shall determine when conditions
warrant initiation or termination of each stage of the plan. Public
notification of the initiation or termination of drought response stages shall
be by means of cable television and posted at City Hall.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.13  EMERGENCY WATER DEMAND MANAGEMENT PLAN PROCEDURE FOR PROGRAM
IMPLEMENTATION TRIGGER CONDITIONS AND LEVEL OF SEVERITY.
   (A)   Mild condition. This conditional would be declared if Well #3 was to
be out of service for a period of time exceeding 48 hours and drought reduces
aquifer level and continues to drop.
   (B)   Moderate condition. This condition would be declared if Well #3 was
out of service as well as one booster pump or pumping level drops more than
one-third of normal.
   (C)   Severe condition. This condition would be declared it Well #3 was out
of service and Well #4 was going to be out of service for more than eight hours
or pumping level drops more than one-half of normal.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.14  EMERGENCY WATER DEMAND RESPONSE MEASURES.
   (A)   Mild conditions. The response to this condition is notification of the
citizens through local cable access station and posting a public notice at City
Hall that an emergency exists. The citizens will be asked to curtail outside
water uses until the problem has been repaired or the drought condition
improves.
   (B)   Moderate conditions.
      (1)   The response to this condition is notification of the citizens
through the local cable access station and posting a public notice at City Hall
that an emergency exists.
      (2)   The citizens will be required to eliminate all outside water uses
until the problem has been repaired or the drought conditions improve.
   (C)   Severe conditions.
      (1)   The response to this condition is notification of the citizens
through the local access station and posting a public notice at City Hall and
businesses around the city.
      (2)   The citizens will be required to eliminate all outside water uses
as well as all businesses and to cut back on water uses inside, but not to
endanger public health, safety and welfare, until the problem has been repaired
or the drought conditions improve.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.15  INITIATION PROCEDURES.
   When one of these above trigger conditions has been reached and the need for
a response is obvious, then the following procedure will be followed.
   (A)   The Public Works Director will make a concise yet rapid assessment of
the situation and notify the City Manager.
   (B)   The City Manager will initiate the proper response for the trigger
condition. The local cable TV will be notified of the emergency and a posting
will be placed at City Hall.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.16  TERMINATION NOTIFICATION ACTIONS.
   Once the repairs have been made and the emergency conditions overcome, the
following procedure will be followed.
   (A)   The Public Works Director will make a concise assessment of the
repairs and the resulting effects to assure himself or herself that the system
has been returned to normal. It will also be necessary to notify the City
Manager that the emergency has been resolved.
   (B)   The City Manager will notify the local cable television and City Hall
that the emergency has been resolved.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.17  MEANS OF IMPLEMENTATION.
   As stated in §
53.12, the Public Works Director and the City Manager will have been authorized
by ordinance through adoption of this plan to act on the behalf of the city
during emergency water demand periods.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.18  WATER RATIONING.
   In the event that water shortage conditions threaten public health, safety
and welfare, the City Manager is hereby authorized to ration water according to
the following water allocation plan.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.19  SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS.
   The allocation to residential water customers residing in a single-family
dwelling shall be as follows.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HOUSEHOLD. The residential premises served by the customer’s meter.
      PERSONS PER HOUSEHOLD. Includes only those persons currently physically
residing at the premises and expected to reside there for the entire billing
period.
   (B)   It shall be assumed that a particular customer’s household is
compromised to two persons unless the customer notifies the city of a greater
number of persons per household on a form prescribed by the City Manager. The
City Manager shall give his or her best effort to see that the forms are
mailed, otherwise provided or made available to every residential customer.
   (C)   If, however, a customer does not receive a form, it shall be the
customer’s responsibility to go to City Hall to complete and sign the form
claiming more than two persons per household. New customers may claim more
persons per household at the time of applying for water service on the form
prescribed by the City Manager. When the number of persons per household
increases so as to place the customer in a different allocation category, the
customer may notify the city on the form and the change will be implemented in
the next practicable billing period. If the number of persons in a household is
reduced, the customer shall notify the city in writing within two days.
 
Persons per Household Gallons per Month
1 or 2                6,000
3 or 4                7,000
5 or 6                8,000
7 or 8                9,000
9 or 10               10,000
11 or more            12,000
 
   (D)   In prescribing the method for claiming more than two persons per
household, the City Manager shall adopt methods to ensure the accuracy of the
claim. Any person who knowingly, recklessly or with criminal negligence falsely
reports the number of persons in a household or fails to timely notify the city
of a reduction in the number of person in a household shall be fined not less
than $5. Residential water customers shall pay the following surcharges:
      (1)   Five dollars for the first 1,000 gallons over allocation;
      (2)   Eight dollars for the second 1,000 gallons over allocation;
      (3)   Ten dollars for the third 1,000 gallons over allocation; and
      (4)   Fifteen dollars for each additional 1,000 gallons over allocation.
   (E)   Surcharges shall be cumulative.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.20  MASTER-METERED MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The allocation to a customer billed from a master meter which jointly
measures water to multiple permanent residential dwelling units (e.g.,
apartments, mobile homes) shall be allocated 6,000 gallons per month for each
dwelling unit. It shall be assumed that a customer’s meter serves two dwellings
units unless the customer notifies the city of a greater number on a form
prescribed by the City Manager. The City Manager shall give his or her best
effort to see that the forms are mailed, otherwise provided, or made available
to every customer. If, however, a customer does not receive a form, it shall be
the customer’s responsibility to go to the City Hall office to complete and
sign the form claiming more than two dwellings. A dwelling unit may be claimed
under this provision whether it is occupied or not. New customers may claim
more dwelling units at the time of applying for water service on the form
prescribed by the City Manager. If the number of dwelling units served by a
master meter is reduced, the customer shall notify the city in writing within
two days. In prescribing the method for claiming more than two dwelling units,
the City Manager shall adopt methods to ensure the accuracy of the claim. Any
person who knowingly, recklessly or with criminal negligence falsely reports
the number of dwelling units served by master meter or fails to timely notify
the city of a reduction in the number of person in a household shall be fined
not less than $5.
   (B)   Customers billed from a master meter under this provision shall pay
the following monthly surcharges:
      (1)   Five dollars for 1,000 gallons over allocation up through 1,000
gallons for each dwelling unit;
      (2)   Eight dollars thereafter for each additional 1,000 gallons
allocation up through a second 1,000 gallons for each dwelling unit;
      (3)   Ten dollars thereafter for each additional 1,000 gallons over
allocation up through a third 1,000 gallons for each dwelling unit; and
      (4)   Fifteen dollars thereafter for each additional 1,000 gallons over
allocation.
   (C)   Surcharges shall be cumulative.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.21  COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   A monthly water usage allocation shall be established by the City
Manager or his or her designee for each non-residential commercial other than
an industrial customer who uses water for processing purposes. The non-
residential customer’s allocation shall be approximately 75% of the customer’s
usage for corresponding month’s billing period for the previous 12 months. If
the customer’s billing history is shorter than 12 months, the monthly average
for the period for which there is a record shall be used for any monthly period
for which no history exists. Provided, however, a customer, 75% of whose
monthly usage is less than 10,000 gallons, shall be allocated 10,000 gallons.
The City Manager shall give his or her best effort to see that notice of each
non-residential customer’s allocation is mailed to the customer. If, however, a
customer does not receive the notice, it shall be the customer’s responsibility
to contact the city to determine the allocation.
   (B)   Upon request of the customer’s or at the initiative of the City
Manager, the allocation may be reduced or increased if:
      (1)   The designated period does not accurately reflect the customer’s
normal water usage;
      (2)   One non-residential customer agrees to transfer part of its
allocation to another non- residential customer; or
      (3)   Other objective evidence demonstrates that the designated
allocation is inaccurate under present conditions.
   (C)   A customer may appeal an allocation established hereunder to the City
Council. Non-residential commercial customers shall pay the following
surcharges:
      (1)   Customers whose allocation is 10,000 gallons through 20,000 gallons
per month:
         (a)   Ten dollars per thousand gallons for the first 1,000 gallons
over allocation;
         (b)   Twelve dollars per thousand gallons for the second 1,000 gallons
over allocation;
         (c)   Fifteen dollars per thousand gallons for the third 1,000 gallons
over allocation; and
         (d)   Eighteen dollars per thousand gallons for each additional 1,000
gallons over the allocation.
      (2)   Customers whose allocation is 25,000 gallons per month or more:
         (a)   One and one-half times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons in
excess of the allocation up through 5% above allocation;
         (b)   Two times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons from 5% through
10% above allocation;
         (c)   Two and one-half times the block rate for 1,000 gallons from 10%
through 15% above allocation; and
         (d)   Three times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons more than 15%
above allocation.
   (D)   The surcharges shall be cumulative. As used herein, BLOCK RATE means
the charge to the customer per 1,000 gallons at the regular water rate schedule
at the level of the customer’s allocation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.22  INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   A monthly water usage allocation shall be established by the City
Manager or his or her designee for each industrial customer, which used water
for processing purposes. The industrial customer’s allocation shall be
approximately 80% (e.g., 90%) of the customer’s water usage baseline. Ninety
days after the initial imposition of the allocation for industrial customers,
the industrial customer’s allocation shall be further reduced to 70% ( e.g.,
85%) of the customer’s water usage baseline. The industrial customer’s water
usage baseline will be computed on the average water usage for the 12-month
period ending prior to the date of implementation of stage 2 of the plan. If
the industrial water customer’s billing history is shorter than 12 months, the
monthly average for the period for which there is a record shall be used for
any monthly period for which no billing history exists. The City Manager shall
give his or her best effort to see that notice for each industrial customer
allocation is mailed to the customer. If, however, a customer does not receive
the notice, it shall be the customer’s responsibility to contact the City Hall
to determine the allocation, and the allocation shall be fully effective
notwithstanding the lack of receipt of written notice.
   (B)   Upon request of the customer or at the initiative of the City Manager,
the allocation may be reduced or increased:
      (1)   If the designated period does not accurately reflect the customer’s
normal water usage because the customer has shutdown a major processing unit
for repair or overhaul during the period;
      (2)   The customer has added or is in the process of adding significant
additional processing capacity;
      (3)   The customer has shutdown or significantly reduced the production
of a major processing unit;
      (4)   The customer has previously implemented significant permanent water
conservation measures such that the ability to further reduce usage is limited;
      (5)   The customer agrees to transfer part of its allocation to another
industrial customer; or
      (6)   If other objective evidence demonstrates that the designated
allocation is inaccurate under present conditions. A customer may appeal an
allocation established hereunder to the City Council.
   (C)   Industrial customers shall pay the following surcharges:
      (1)   Customer whose allocation is 25,000 gallons through 40,000 gallons
per month:
         (a)   Twelve dollars per thousand gallons for the first 1,000 gallons
over allocation;
         (b)   Fifteen dollars per thousand gallons for the second 1,000
gallons over allocation;
         (c)   Eighteen dollars per thousand gallons for the third 1,000
gallons over allocation; and
         (d)   Twenty dollars per thousand gallons for each additional 1,000
gallons over allocation.
      (2)   The surcharges shall be cumulative.
   (D)   As used herein, BLOCK RATE means the charge to the customer per 1,000
gallons at the regular water rate schedule at the level of the customer’s
allocation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.23  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally allow the use of water from
the city for residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, government or
any other purpose in a manner contrary to any provision of this plan, or in an
amount in excess of that permitted by the drought response stage in effect at
the time pursuant to action taken be City Manager or his or her designee in
accordance with provisions of this plan.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, including a person classified as a water customer of
the city, in apparent control of the property where a violation occurs or
originates shall be presumed to be the violator, and proof that the violation
occurred on the person’s property shall constitute a rebuttable presumption
that the person in apparent control of the property committed the violation,
but the person shall have the right to show that he or she did not commit the
violation.
      (2)   Parents shall be presumed to be responsible for violations of their
minor children and proof that a violation, committed by a child, occurred on
property within the parents’ control shall constitute a rebuttable presumption
that the parent committed the violation, but any parent may be excused if he or
she proves that he or she had previously directed the child not to use water as
it was used in violation of the plan and that the parent could not have
reasonably known of the violation.
   (C)   (1)   Any employee of the city, police officer or other employee
designated by the City Manager may issue a citation to a person he or she
reasonably believes to be in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The citation shall be prepared in duplicate and shall contain the
name and address of the alleged violator, if known, the offense charged, and
shall direct him or her to appear in the Municipal Court on the date shown on
the citation for which date shall not be less than three days, nor more than
five days, from the date the citation was issued. The alleged violator shall be
served a copy of the citation.
      (3)   Service of the citation shall be complete upon delivery of the
citation to the alleged violator, to an agent or employee of a violator, or to
a person over 14 years of age who is a member of the violator’s immediate
family or is a resident of the violator’s residence.
      (4)   The alleged violator shall appear in the Municipal Court to enter a
plea of guilty or not guilty for the violation of this plan. If the alleged
violator fails to appear in the Municipal Court a warrant for his or her arrest
may be issued.
      (5)   A summons to appear may be issued in lieu of an arrest warrant.
      (6)   These cases shall be expedited and given preferential setting in
the Municipal Court before all other cases.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.24  VARIANCES.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designee may, in writing, grant
temporary variance for existing water uses otherwise prohibited under this plan
if it is determined that failure to grant the variance would cause an emergency
condition adversely affecting the health, sanitation or fire protection for the
public or the person requesting a variance and if one or more of the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   Compliance with this plan cannot be technically accomplished during
the duration of the water supply shortage or other conditions for which the
plan is in effect; and/or
      (2)   Alternative methods can be implemented which will achieve the same
level of reduction in water use.
   (B)   Persons requesting an exemption from the provisions of this chapter
shall file a petition for variance with the City Manager within five days after
the plan or a particular drought response stage has been revoked. All petitions
for variances shall be reviewed by the City Manager or his or her designee and
shall include the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the petitioner(s);
      (2)   Purpose of water use;
      (3)   Specific provision(s) of the plan from which the petitioner is
required relief;
      (4)   Detailed statement as to how the specific provision of the plan
adversely affects the petitioner or what damage of harm will occur to the
petitioner or others if petitioner complies with this chapter;
      (5)   Description of the relief requested;
      (6)   Period of time for which the variance is sought;
      (7)   Alternative water use restrictions or other measures the petitioner
is taking of purposes to take to meet the intent of this plan and the
compliance date; and
      (8)   Other pertinent information.
   (C)   Variances granted by the city shall be subject to the following
conditions, unless waived or modified by the City Manager or his or her
designee.
      (1)   Variances granted shall include a timetable for compliance.
      (2)   Variances granted shall expire when the plan is no longer in
effect, unless the petitioner has failed to meet specified requirements.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this plan is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon;
conviction shall punish by a fine of not less than $5 and not more than $500.
Each day that one or more of the provisions in this plan is/are violated shall
constitute a separate offense. If a person is convicted of three or more
distinct violations of this plan, the City Manager shall, upon due notice to
the customer, be authorized to discontinue water service to the premises where
the violations occur. Services discontinued under those circumstances shall be
restored only upon payment of a reconnection charge, hereby established at
$100, and any other costs incurred by the city in discontinuing service. In
addition, suitable assurance must be given to the City Manager that the same
action shall be repeated while the plan is in effect. Compliance with this plan
may also be sought thorough injunctive relief in the District Court.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 54:  SEWERS
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Prohibited discharges
   
54.03   Chemical discharges
   
54.04   Hazardous metals and toxic materials
   
54.05   Particulate size
   
54.06   Storm water and other unpolluted drainage
   
54.07   Temperature
   
54.08   Radioactive wastes
   
54.09   Impairment of facilities
   
54.10   Septage
   
54.11   Compliance with existing authority
   
54.12   Conditional acceptance of wastes
   
54.13   Review and approval of waste discharges
   
54.14   Traps
   
54.15   Privies
   
54.16   Standards for service lines
   
54.17   Connection of sewer lines
   
54.18   Sewer extensions
   
54.19   User charges
   
54.20   Power to enter property
   
54.21   Authority to disconnect service
   
54.22   Failure to pay
   
54.23   Injury to sewer system
   
54.24   Effective date
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning three feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION, SERVICE LINE. The extension
from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen consumed from a
chemical oxidation of inorganic and organic matter present in the water or
wastewater, with testing conducted according to Standard Methods, expressed in
mg/l.
   CITY. The City of Sour Lake, Hardin County, Texas, or any authorized person
acting in its behalf.
   DISCHARGE. To deposit, conduct, drain, emit, throw, run, allow to seep, or
otherwise release or dispose of, or to allow any of these acts to occur. The
insertion of any prohibited materials into the sewer system through manholes,
lift stations or similar appurtenances shall be construed as a PROHIBITED
DISCHARGE.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Water-borne wastes normally discharging into the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories and institutions, free of storm and surface water and
industrial wastes.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable wastes and residue from preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, processing, storage and sale of
food products and produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waste resulting from any process of industry,
manufacturing, trade, business or service, or from the development of any
natural resource, or any mixture of the waste with water or domestic sewage, as
distinct from normal domestic sewage.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l). A weight-to-volume ratio numerically equal to
parts per million (the mg/l value multiplied by 8.345 equals pounds per million
gallons of water).
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Sewage (excluding industrial wastes) discharged into
sanitary sewers with average concentrations of suspended solids and BOD not
more than 200 mg/l.
   OVERLOAD. The imposition of organic or hydraulic loading on a treatment
facility in excess of its engineered design capacity.
   PARTS PER MILLION (ppm). A weight-to-weight ratio numerically equal to mg/l.
   PERSON. Any individual. Except for references to health and welfare of
persons, the term also includes any corporation, organization, government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership,
association or other legal entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution. It shall be determined
according to Standard Methods.
   PLUMBING CODE. Any standard or special Plumbing Code adopted by the city to
regulate gas, water and/or sewer plumbing.
   PLUMBING ORDINANCE. The city ordinance adopting the Plumbing Code and
establishing plumbing inspection.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles shall
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A publicly owned sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties shall have equal rights and interest controlled by public authority.
   RATE ORDINANCE. The city ordinance establishing user charges (as
periodically updated).
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse into which the effluent from the sewage
treatment plant is discharged.
   SANITARY SEWER. Also SEWER. A pipe or conduit which conveys domestic sewage,
industrial sewage or a combination of both, and into which storm, surface and
ground waters or unpolluted industrial wastes are not passed intentionally.
   SEPTAGE. Any liquid, semi-solid or solid domestic wastes pumped out of
septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried waste from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with the
ground, surface and storm water as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Also TREATMENT PLANT. Any city owned facilities,
devices, and structures used for receiving, processing and treating sewage,
industrial waste and sludges from the sanitary sewers.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage and industrial waste, including public sewers as well as the sewage
treatment plant. This includes sewers from users located outside the city and
connected to the sewage works.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour
concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
latest edition, at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater as prepared, approved and published jointly
by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. Also STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface
waters, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   STORM WATER. Rainfall or any other forms of precipitation.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Water and Sewer Superintendent for the city or any
person acting in this capacity, or his or her duly authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitive determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   TRAP. A device designed to skim, settle or otherwise remove grease, oil,
sand, flammable wastes or other harmful substances.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER OR WASTE. Water containing:
      (1)   No free or emulsified grease or oil;
      (2)   No acids or alkalies;
      (3)   No phenols or other substances producing taste or odor in receiving
water;
      (4)   No toxic or poisonous substances in suspension, colloidal state or
solution;
      (5)   No noxious or otherwise obnoxious or odorous gases;
      (6)   Not more than an insignificant amount in mg/l each of suspended
solids and BOD, as determined by the State Department of Water Resources; and
      (7)   Color not exceeding 50 units as measured by the Platinum-Cobalt
method of determination as specified in Standard Methods.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the city sewage works.
   USER CHARGE. The charge made to all users for collection and treatment of
wastes. The definition excludes tap fees.
   USER CHARGE ORDINANCE. The city ordinance providing a system for
establishing, assessing and collecting user charges.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)
§ 54.02  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person may discharge to public sewers any waste which by itself or
by interaction with other wastes may:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to persons or animals; or
      (3)   Create a hazard in the receiving stream.
   (B)   All discharges shall conform to requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.03  CHEMICAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No discharge to public sewers may contain:
      (1)   Cyanide greater than one mg/l;
      (2)   Cyanides or cyanogen compounds capable of liberating hydrocyanic
gas on acidification in excess of 0.5 ppm by weight as CN in the wastes from
any outlet into the public sewers;
      (3)   Fluoride other than that contained in the public water supply;
      (4)   Chlorides in concentrations greater than 250 mg/l;
      (5)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas; or
      (6)   Substances causing an excessive chemical oxygen demand.
   (B)   No waste or wastewater discharged to public sewers may contain:
      (1)   Strong acid, iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating solutions
whether neutralized or not;
      (2)   Fats, wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of
100 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and 65°C);
      (3)   Objectionable or toxic substances, exerting an excessive chlorine
requirement, to a degree that any material received in the composite wastewater
treatment works exceeds the limits established by the city for the materials;
or
      (4)   Obnoxious, toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
quantities sufficient to violate the provisions hereof.
   (C)   No waste, wastewater or other substance may be discharged into public
sewers which has a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5, or any other corrosive
property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and/or
personnel at the wastewater facilities.
   (D)   (1)   All waste, wastewater or other substance containing phenols,
hydrogen sulfide or other taste- and odor-producing substances shall conform to
any concentration limits established by the city.
      (2)   After treatment of the composite wastewater, concentration limits
may not exceed the requirements established by state, federal or other agencies
with jurisdiction over discharges to the receiving stream.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04  HAZARDOUS METALS AND TOXIC MATERIALS.
   (A)   The allowable concentrations of hazardous metals in mg/l, determined
on the basis of individual sampling in accordance with Standard Methods, are:
Not to Exceed
Metal Average Daily Composite Grab Sample
Not to Exceed
Metal     Average Daily Composite Grab Sample
Arsenic   0.1     0.2             0.3
Barium    1.0     2.0             4.0
Cadmium   0.05    0.1             0.2
Chromium  0.5     1.0             5.0
Copper    0.5     1.0             2.0
Lead      0.5     1.0             1.5
Manganese 1.0     2.0             3.0
Mercury   0.005   0.005           0.01
Nickel    1.0     2.0             3.0
Selenium  0.05    0.1             0.2
Silver    0.05    0.1             0.2
Zinc      1.0     2.0             6.0
 
   (B)   No other hazardous metals or toxic materials may be discharged into
public sewers without a permit from the city specifying conditions of
pretreatment, concentrations, volumes and other applicable provisions.
Prohibited hazardous materials include, but are not limited to: antimony,
beryllium, bismuth, boron (greater than one mg/l), cobalt, iron (greater than
five mg/l), molybdenum, rhenium, strontium, tellurium, uranylion, herbicides,
fungicides and pesticides.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.05  PARTICULATE SIZE.
   (A)   No person may discharge garbage or other solids into public sewers,
except properly shredded garbage, as defined in §
54.01.
   (B)   The city is entitled to review and approve the installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.06  STORM WATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall discharge any storm water, ground water, roof
runoff, foundation drains, subsurface drainage, downspouts, yard drains, ponds
or lawn sprays into any sanitary sewer, or into any building sewer or
industrial sewer connected thereto. Storm water and all other unpolluted
drainage shall be discharged into storm sewers or to natural outlets approved
by the city.
      (2)   All building drains, building sewers, industrial sewers and
sanitary sewers leading to the public sewers, including connections thereto,
shall be constructed and maintained so as to exclude any ground or surface
water from entering the sewer. The city shall require the owner of any of these
facilities to correct at his own expense any leaks or other conditions allowing
the entry of ground water or surface water into the sewage works. This
provision shall apply to all leaks or conditions, whether they exist prior to
the effective date of this chapter or occur at a later date. The city shall
inspect the sewer repair according to §
54.16.
      (3)   House connections shall be constructed according to §
54.16.
   (B)   Unpolluted cooling water (if not returned to a process) must be
discharged into storm sewers or natural outlets approved by the city. The city
may require cooling before discharge.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.07  TEMPERATURE.
   No person may discharge liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150°F (65°C), or any substance which causes the temperature of the total
wastewater treatment plant influent to increase at a rate of 10°F or more per
hour, or a combined total increase of plant influent to 104°F.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.08  RADIOACTIVE WASTES.
   (A)   No person may discharge radioactive wastes or isotopes into public
sewers without the permission of the city.
   (B)   The city may establish, in compliance with applicable state and
federal regulations, standards for discharge of radioactive wastes into public
sewers.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.09  IMPAIRMENT OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance capable of:
      (1)   Obstructing the flow in sewers;
      (2)   Preventing entry into the sewers for repair and maintenance;
      (3)   Interfering with the operation of treatment processes of
facilities; or
      (4)   Overloading the treatment facilities.
   (B)   Discharges prohibited by division (A) above, but are not limited to,
materials which exert or cause concentrations of:
      (1)   Inert suspended solids greater than 250 mg/l including, but not
limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues;
      (2)   Dissolved solids greater than 600 mg/l including, but not limited
to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate;
      (3)   Excessive discoloration including but not limited to dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions; or
      (4)   BOD, COD or chlorine demand in excess of normal plant capacity.
   (C)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance that may:
      (1)   Deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in a manner as to clog the
sewers;
      (2)   Overload skimming and grease handling equipment;
      (3)   Pass to the receiving waters without being effectively treated by
normal wastewater treatment processes due to the non-amenability of the
substance to bacterial action; or
      (4)   Deleteriously affect the treatment process due to excessive
quantities.
   (D)   No person may discharge any substance into public sewers which:
      (1)   Is not amenable to treatment or reduction by the processes and
facilities employed; or
      (2)   Is amenable to treatment only to a degree that the treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   The city may regulate the flow and concentrations of slugs when they
may:
      (1)   Impair the treatment process;
      (2)   Cause damage to collection facilities;
      (3)   Incur treatment costs exceeding those for normal wastewater; or
      (4)   Render the effluent unfit for stream disposal or industrial use.
   (F)   No person may discharge into public sewers solid or viscous substances
which may violate division (A) above if present in sufficient quantity or size
including, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings,
metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole
blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, paper products (either
whole or ground by garbage grinders), slops, chemical residues, paint residues,
grease trap cleanings or bulk solids.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.10  SEPTAGE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person wishing to dispose of septage through the city sewage
works shall obtain a license from the Superintendent for each truck hauling
septage. Annual license fees shall be as prescribed by separate ordinance or by
the Superintendent.
      (2)   Septage shall be hauled to the treatment plant for disposal during
hours designated by the city. The septage shall be discharged into that portion
of the plant designated by the city; provided:
         (a)   The plant is capable, in the opinion of the plant operator, of
receiving and treating septage without inconvenience to the operating staff,
overloading or degradation of plant effluent;
         (b)   The city verifies by inspection that no grease trap cleanings,
toxic wastes or other unacceptable wastes are present; and
         (c)   Inspection and treatment fees are paid according to appropriate
ordinances or regulations.
   (B)   Licenses for septage hauling may be revoked for unauthorized disposal
or other violations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)
§ 54.11  COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   In those portions of the city where sewer service is available (unless
exception is granted by the city), the public sanitary sewer system shall be
used by all persons discharging wastewater, industrial waste or other polluted
liquids.
   (B)   Unless authorized by the State Department of Water Resources, no
person may deposit or discharge any waste included in division (A) above on
public or private property or into or adjacent to any natural outlet,
watercourse, storm sewer or other area within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (C)   The city may require verification prior to discharge that wastes
authorized to be discharged will receive suitable treatment within the
provisions of laws, regulations, ordinances, rules and orders of federal, state
and local governments.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.12  CONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE OF WASTES.
   (A)   If discharges or proposed discharges to public sewers may
deleteriously affect wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving
waters; create a hazard to life or health; or create a public nuisance, the
city shall require:
      (1)   Pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public
sewers;
      (2)   Control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (3)   Payment to cover the cost of handling and treating the wastes.
   (B)   The Superintendent is entitled to determine whether a discharge or
proposed discharge is included under division (A) above.
   (C)   The Superintendent shall reject wastes when he or she determines that
a discharge or proposed discharge does not meet the requirements of division
(A) above.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)
§ 54.13  REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF WASTE DISCHARGES.
   (A)   If pretreatment or control is required, the city shall review and
approve design and installation of equipment and processes.
   (B)   The design and installation of equipment and processes must conform to
all applicable statutes, codes, ordinances and other laws.
   (C)   Any person responsible for discharges requiring pretreatment, flow
equalizing or other facilities shall provide and maintain the facilities in
effective operating condition at his or her own expense.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)
§ 54.14  TRAPS.
   (A)   Discharges requiring a trap include:
      (1)   Grease or waste containing grease in amounts that will impede or
stop the flow in the public sewers;
      (2)   Oil;
      (3)   Sand;
      (4)   Flammable wastes; and
      (5)   Other harmful ingredients.
   (B)   Any person responsible for discharges requiring a trap shall, at his
or her own expense and as required by the city:
      (1)   Provide equipment and facilities of a type and capacity approved by
the city;
      (2)   Locate the trap in a manner that provides ready and easy
accessibility for cleaning and inspection; and
      (3)   Maintain the trap in effective operating condition.
   (C)   Grease and oil traps shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with easily removable
covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gas-tight and water-tight. All
traps shall be maintained by the user, at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times. The requirements of the Plumbing Code, where
applicable, shall govern the installation and maintenance of traps.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)
§ 54.15  PRIVIES.
   No person shall connect any privy, vault or septic tank with the city sewer,
or with any sewer leading to the city sewer.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.16  STANDARDS FOR SERVICE LINES.
   The following regulations shall govern the installation of all sanitary
connections within the city or along any sewers leading to the city sewer
system.
   (A)   Only one service line connection to the city’s sanitary sewage
collection system is permitted for each residence or commercial building. The
connection point will be as approved by the Superintendent.
   (B)   Only the following types of pipe and fitting materials are approved
for constructing service lines. Pipe and fittings in each individual service
line shall be of identical material:
      (1)   Vitrified clay pipe conforming to ASTM Specification C700 with
joint coupling conforming to ASTM Specification C425 and installed according to
ASTM C12;
      (2)   Cast iron soil pipe, standard weight, conforming to ASTM
Specification A74 with rubber gasket joint coupling conforming to ASTM
Specification C564;
      (3)   Poly-vinyl-chloride PSM (PVC) pipe conforming to ASTM Specification
D30.34 and Installed according to ASTM D2321;
      (4)   Ductile iron pipe conforming to ANSI A21-51 with rubber gasket
joints ANSI A21.ll, and Installed according to manufacturer’s recommendations;
and
      (5)   Acrylonltrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) pipe, material conforming to
ASTM Specification D2751.
   (C)   Minimum sizes of service lines shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential: four inches in diameter; and
      (2)   Commercial: six inches in diameter.
   (D)   Minimum grades for service lines shall be as follows:
      (1)   Four-inch pipe: one foot drop per 100 feet (1%);
      (2)   Six-inch pipe: six-inch drop per 100 feet (0.5%); and
      (3)   Eight-inch pipe: four-inch drop per 100 feet (0.33%).
   (E)   Maximum grades for service lines shall be as follows:
      (1)   Four-inch pipe: two and one-half feet drop per hundred feet (2.5%);
      (2)   Six-inch pipe: one and one-half feet drop per hundred feet (1.5%);
and
      (3)   Eight-inch pipe: one foot drop per hundred feet (1%).
   (F)   Service lines shall be constructed to true alignment and grade. Warped
and sagging lines will not be permitted.
   (G)   (1)   The building tie-on connection shall be made directly to the
building drain on all waste outlets. Water-tight adapters of a type compatible
with the materials being joined shall be used at the point of connection of the
service line to the building plumbing. No cement grout materials are permitted.
      (2)   Existing “wye” and stack connections must be utilized for
connection of the service line to the sewer main unless an exception is
permitted by the Superintendent.
   (H)   Fittings and cleanouts for service lines shall be as follows.
      (1)   No bends or turns at any point shall be greater than 45 degrees.
      (2)   Each horizontal service line shall be provided with a cleanout at
its upper terminal; and each run of piping which is more than 90 feet in length
shall be provided with a cleanout for each 90 feet or fraction thereof, in
length of the piping.
      (3)   Each cleanout shall be installed so that it opens in a direction
opposite to the flow of the waste and, except in the case of “wye” branch and
end-of-the-line cleanouts, cleanouts shall be installed vertically above the
flow line of the pipe.
      (4)   Each cleanout shall be made with an air-tight mechanical plug.
   (I)   The city may require a check valve on the privately constructed
portion of the service line if, in the opinion of the city, the property is
subject to damage from overcharged city sewers.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)
§ 54.17  CONNECTION OF SEWER LINES.
   (A)   Application for sanitary sewer service must be filed prior to
construction of the service line, and the connection fee should accompany this
application. (Application forms are available at the City Hall.) Construction
must not begin until authorized by the Superintendent.
   (B)   The property owner shall construct the service line from the building
to within two feet of the property line according to the requirements of §
54.16.
   (C)   When the service line is complete (except for backfilling the trench
and connecting to the city sewer), the applicant for sewer service shall
request an inspection of the installation. Request for inspections shall be
made to the City Hall 24 hours in advance of the inspection. Backfilling and
connection to the city sewer shall not be performed until inspection by the
city according to the plumbing ordinance.
   (D)   Backfilling of the service line trench must be accomplished within 24
hours of inspection and approval. No debris will be permitted in the torch.
   (E)   The city shall construct a tap on the main sewer line, or shall
utilize existing taps where available. The city shall construct a service line
from the tap to the property line and shall connect this line with the recently
inspected service line constructed by the property owner.
   (F)   All connections shall be made by use of an adapter of a type
compatible with materials being joined. The connections shall be water-tight.
No cement grout materials are permitted.
   (G)   When the city requires the property owner to correct an infiltration/
inflow problem on an existing service line, the inspection and backfill
requirements of this section shall apply. Construction shall meet material and
water-tight requirements of this section and of §
54.16. The city also reserves the right to inspect the repair by smoke testing
at any time.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)
§ 54.18  SEWER EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   All sanitary sewers constructed as extensions to the city sewer system
shall be constructed so as to exclude ground and surface drainage as much as
practical. Infiltration of ground water shall be limited to 200 gallons per day
per mile of pipe for each inch of pipe diameter. All newly constructed sewer
lines shall be tested at the expense of the person or entity for whom the sewer
is constructed, by means of low pressure air testing or infiltration/
exfiltration testing. No sewer extensions shall be incorporated into the city
sewer system until they have been tested and found acceptable.
   (B)   These provisions shall apply to all sewer extensions whether
constructed at the expense of the city, a private developer or other entity.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)
§ 54.19  USER CHARGES.
   (A)   Collection and treatment charges for normal domestic sewage shall be
assessed and collected according to the user charge ordinance and the current
rate ordinance.
   (B)   In the event that the city should accept industrial wastes for
treatment, collection and treatment charges shall be based on measured or
estimated strength of the wastes. These charges shall be established through
modifications of the user charge ordinance and the rate ordinance, or by
agreements with the dischargers of the wastes.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)
§ 54.20  POWER TO ENTER PROPERTY.
   (A)   Authorized city personnel bearing proper credentials and
identification are entitled to enter any public or private property at any
reasonable time for the purpose of enforcing this chapter.
   (B)   Anyone acting under this authority shall observe the establishment’s
rules and regulations concerning safety, internal security and fire protection.
   (C)   Except when caused by negligence or failure of users to maintain safe
conditions, the city shall indemnify the users against loss or damage to their
property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal Injury or property damage asserted against the users and growing out
of the sampling operation.
   (D)   Authorized city personnel (including contractors duly authorized by
the city) bearing proper credentials and identification are entitled to enter
all private properties through which the city holds a negotiated easement for
the purposes of:
      (1)   Inspection, observation, measurement, sampling or repair;
      (2)   Maintenance of any portion of the sewerage system lying within the
easements; and
      (3)   Conducting any other authorized activity. All activities shall be
conducted in full accordance with the terms of the negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   (E)   No person acting for the city under division (A) above may inquire
into the processes of any industrial user beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the type and source of discharge into the sewage works.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.21  AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   (A)   The city may terminate water and wastewater disposal service and
disconnect a user from the system when:
      (1)   Acids or chemicals which may damage the sewer lines or treatment
process are released to the sewer potentially causing accelerated deterioration
of these structures or interfering with the proper conveyance and treatment of
wastewater;
      (2)   A governmental agency informs the city that the effluent from the
wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge to
a watercourse, and it is found that the user is delivering wastewater to the
city’s system that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires treatment that is
not provided by the city as normal domestic treatment; or
      (3)   The user:
         (a)   Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in
sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment system;
         (b)   Fails to pay monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer services
when due;
         (c)   Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes to public sewers in
violation of §§
54.02 through
54.10; and
         (d)   Fails to properly maintain private facilities such that sewer
and/or wastewater accumulates, discharges or flows onto public or private land
or the user fails to connect to the city sewer system where that service has
been provided and made available.
   (B)   If service is discontinued pursuant to divisions (A)(2) or (A)(3)
above, the city shall:
      (1)   Supply the user with the governmental agency’s report and provide
the customer with all pertinent information;
      (2)   Serve the user with a written notice of the violation describing
the nature of the violation and prescribing a reasonable time limit for its
correction;
      (3)   If appropriate, require the user to report the cause of the
violation and to submit a schedule for its correction;
      (4)   Disconnect the user if the violation remains uncorrected after the
end of the specified time limit; and
      (5)   Continue disconnection until such time as the user:
         (a)   Provides pretreatment/additional pretreatment or other
facilities designed to remove the objectionable characteristics from his or her
wastes; and
         (b)   Pays all outstanding charges for city services (including late
payment penalties, any lawfully assessed fines or damages, and all
disconnection and reconnection charges).
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985; Ord. passed 3-15-1988)
§ 54.22  FAILURE TO PAY.
   In addition to sanctions provided for by this chapter, the city is entitled
to exercise sanctions provided for by the other ordinances of the city for
failure to pay the bill for water and sanitary sewer service when due.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)
§ 54.23  INJURY TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall injure, break or remove any portion of any manhole,
cleanout or lift station, or any part of the city’s sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   Any person desiring to lay or drive any pipe in any streets containing
sewers, or to uncover any city sewer, shall give at least 24 hours notice to
the Superintendent.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.24  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its final
passage, approval, recording and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of state and federal statutes. If any person violates any
provision of this chapter, and thereby violates a state or federal statute or
injunction, the city may seek prosecution of that person in the appropriate
state or federal court, and may seek penalties as are prescribed by that
statute or injunction.
   (B)   Fines. If any person violates any provision of this chapter, and the
violation is not punishable in state or federal courts, that person shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor upon conviction in the City Court. Each offense shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $200. Each day of violation shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   (C)   Damages. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall become liable to the city of expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of the violation.
   (D)   Criminal mischief. The city may pursue all criminal and civil remedies
to which it is entitled under authority of statutes and ordinances against a
person negligently, willfully or maliciously causing loss by tampering with or
destroying public sewers or treatment facilities.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1985)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Traffic Provisions
   
70.01   Weight restrictions on public rights-of-way
   
70.02   Truck routes
   
70.03   Skateboards, roller skates and the like
   
70.04   Contents in vehicles covered or secured
   
70.05   Traveling on sidewalks; bicycles
Parking Provisions
   
70.20   Handicapped parking
   
70.21   Parallel parking
 
   
70.99   Penalty
TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Findings and purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to:
         (a)   Restrict vehicle traffic by weight on specific streets within
the city proper on or over the public rights-of-way in order to minimize the
congestion, inconvenience, deterioration, visual impact and other adverse
effects, and the costs to the citizens resulting from the replacement and
repair to facilities within the public rights-of-way;
         (b)   Govern the use and occupancy of specific public rights-of-way;
         (c)   Assist the city in its efforts to protect the public health,
safety and welfare;
         (d)   Conserve the limited physical capacity of the public rights-of-
way held in public trust by the city;
         (e)   Preserve the physical integrity of the streets and highways;
         (f)   Control the orderly flow of vehicles and pedestrians;
         (g)   Keep track of the different entities using the public rights-of-
way to prevent interference between them; and
         (h)   Protect the safety, security, appearance and condition of the
public rights-of-way.
      (2)   This section may be referred to as the “Restrictive Use of Specific
City Public Rights-of-Way by Weight Restrictive Use Ordinance”.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Sour Lake, Texas. As used throughout, the term CITY
also includes the designated agent of the city.
      CITY STREET. The foregoing and designated street within the corporate
limits of the city designated for transportation purposes.
      DIRECTION OF THE CITY. All ordinances, laws, rules, resolutions and
regulations of the city that are not inconsistent with this section and that
are now in force or may hereafter be passed and adopted.
      DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS or DIRECTOR. The City Director of Public Works
Department or the Director’s designee.
      PERSON. A natural person (an individual), corporation, company,
association, partnership, firm, limited liability company, joint venture, joint
stock company or association, and other entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The same as defined in Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code §
283.002(6): the area on, below or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, waterway or utility easement in which the municipality
has an interest. The term does not include the airwaves above a PUBLIC RIGHT-
OF-WAY with regard to wireless telecommunications. The term does not include
city property.
   (C)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   A person is subject to reasonable police power regulation of the
city to manage its public rights-of-way in connection maintenance or repair of
public rights-of-way, pursuant to the city’s rights as a custodian of public
property based upon the city’s historic rights under state and federal laws.
      (2)   The city shall provide notice of enforcement by placing notice of
restrictive use of the designated public rights-of-way by signs posted at each
entrance providing the weight limit for any vehicle or load traveling the
public rights-of-way.
   (D)   Unauthorized use of public rights-of-way. The city may institute all
appropriate legal action to prohibit any person from using the above designated
public rights-of-way unless the person has complied with the terms of this
section.
   (E)   Effective date. This section became effective immediately upon passage
and publication required by law.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2007)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02  TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or
pole, or by being ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped
loads, such as poles, pipes, logs or structural members capable, generally of
sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
      SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
      TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing
vehicle, except for the towing connection.
      TRUCK. Every commercial motor vehicle designed, used or maintained
primarily for the transportation of property, and designed for, or having a
manufacturer’s rated cargo capacity of 2,000 pounds or more and/or gross
vehicle weight rating of 10,000 pounds or more.
      TRUCK ROUTES. Those routes which are designated by this section for the
use of truck traffic.
      TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
      TRUCK TRAFFIC. The operation of any commercial truck or any combination
of a truck tractor, trailer, semi-trailer or pole trailer.
   (B)   Trucks confined thereto; exception to family vehicles. No person,
firm, company or corporation shall operate truck traffic upon any roads,
avenues, streets or thoroughfares within the corporate limits of the city,
except on those which are designated as truck routes in Ch. 71, Sch. I;
provided that, where any truck is the sole transportation of a family, it may
be operated on any public thoroughfare within the city when absolutely empty of
any type of cargo and for family business and purposes exclusively.
   (C)   Proceeding to truck route. The provisions of division (B) above
notwithstanding, in those instances where any truck traffic, originating within
the corporate limits of the city, shall have as its point of origin a point
located off a designated truck route by the most direct route possible. If the
traffic shall originate outside the corporate limits of the city and enter the
city at a point which is not on a designated truck route, it shall proceed to
the nearest point on a designated truck route by the most direct route
possible.
   (D)   Departing to proceed to or from terminal. Vehicles restricted to truck
routes may depart from a point on the designated truck route for the purpose of
traveling to and from a truck terminal; provided that, the vehicle proceeds by
the most direct route to or from the applicable truck terminal.
   (E)   Departing for pickup or delivery. Truck traffic restricted to streets
designated as truck routes may depart from the truck routes where it is
necessary to load or unload at location or locations situated off designated
truck routes; provided, however, the truck traffic shall not leave any
designated truck route which is nearest the applicable place of loading or
unloading by the most direct route possible.
   (F)   Erection of signs. The City Manager shall cause to be erected
appropriate signs and markings advising motorists of the truck routes
established by this section, but it is specifically provided that the absence
of the signs and markings shall not affect the validity of this section or the
enforcement of the provisions hereof.
   (G)   Alternate routes. Whenever a street or roadway designated as a truck
route is under repair, or otherwise temporarily out of use, the City Manager
shall be authorized to designate alternate truck routes.
   (H)   Effective date. This section shall be effective from and after its
passage and the publication of the caption of the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Roller skates, street skates and skateboards regulated. No person
shall roller skate or ride a skateboard anywhere within the city without
complying with the terms of this section. As used herein, TO ROLLER SKATE shall
mean to skate on any type of roller skates or street skates.
   (B)   Streets. No person shall roller skate or ride a skateboard on any
street, except for the purpose of crossing the street. The rules relating to
pedestrians crossing the streets shall apply to persons crossing a street on
roller skates or a skateboard. No person crossing a street on roller skates or
a skateboard shall travel too fast for safety under the conditions existing.
   (C)   Sidewalks. No person shall roller skate or ride a skateboard in any
manner on any public sidewalk within the city downtown area on Merchant Street
(105 to 7th Street) and 6th Street (Anne to Fannin).
   (D)   Sales and rentals. Any commercial establishment selling or renting
street skates, roller skates of any kind or skateboards shall post a copy of
this section, or a summary of the rules set out in this section in a
conspicuous place where persons buying or renting skates will see it.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall be effective from and after its
passage and publication of the caption of the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. passed 8-18-1987)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04  CONTENTS IN VEHICLES COVERED OR SECURED.
   (A)   All vehicles operated along the streets or thoroughfares of the city
loaded with loose sand or small gravel that may fall or be blown therefrom
shall have the material properly covered.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport through or within the
city any material outlined in division (A) above unless proper cover is affixed
firmly in place.
(Ord. 702, passed 6-15-1982)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05  TRAVELING ON SIDEWALKS; BICYCLES.
   (A)   All motor driven vehicles and animals with riders are prohibited from
traveling along the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor driven vehicle
along the sidewalks. It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, load or drive
an animal (or beast of burden) along the sidewalks.
   (C)   All bicycles and all other manually powered vehicles capable of
traveling at speed in excess of ten mph are prohibited from traveling along the
sidewalks of the business area of the city. It shall be unlawful for any person
to operate a bicycle along the sidewalks of the business area of the city.
(Ord. 722, passed 9-13-1972; Ord. 742, passed 5-8-1974)  Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING PROVISIONS
§ 70.20  HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   No parking places.
      (1)   At any time, it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in
any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic
control device, unless otherwise authorized as herein provided:
         (a)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking; and
         (b)   Specifically designated parking spaces for mobility handicapped
persons for every space marked distinctly “handicapped parking”.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person without a mobility handicap or
not using a wheelchair to park in any space reserved for the handicapped
persons; provided, however, that, a driver of a vehicle used in transporting
the handicapped persons may park in the spaces.
   (B)   Signs posted. The Chief of Police, City Manager or any other person
authorized by the Mayor and City Council shall cause signs to be posted in all
areas where parking is limited or prohibited, indicating the limitations or
prohibitions.
   (C)   Parking prohibited in spaces designated for disabled persons.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any vehicle
in a stall or space designed for physically handicapped persons, if,
immediately adjacent to and visible from the stall or space, there is posted a
sign known as the international wheelchair symbol consisting of a profile view
of a stylized wheelchair with occupant in white on a blue background, unless
the driver of the car is disabled.
      (2)   As used in this section, DISABLED means either having a physical
condition requiring either the use of a wheelchair, artificial limb, crutch,
cane or walker, and having a physical disease making it difficult to walk more
than 25 feet without shortness of breath or danger of impairment of health. A
certificate by a person licensed to practice the healing arts in the state
shall be acceptable by the city as evidence under this section.
      (3)   The provision of this division (C) shall apply to all street and
off-street parking facilities owned or operated by the city or by any privately
owned or operated parking lot.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall be effective from and after its
passage and publication of the caption of the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. passed 7-18-1987)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21  PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   Every person in charge of a vehicle, when parking the same upon the
streets within the corporate limits of the city, shall park the vehicle
parallel to the curb. Both front and back wheels of the vehicle shall not be
more than 18 inches from the curb and no part or accessory, or anything carried
thereon shall extend more than 12 feet from the curb line.
   (B)   Where markers, signs and/or painted lines have been placed on any of
the above streets, by officers of the city or police or someone under their
direction, then all vehicles parked along the street where the lines, markers
or signs are located shall be parked between the lines or markers or signs with
no part of the vehicle upon or across the lines, markers or signs.
(Ord. passed 6-8-1966)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
70.01 within the corporate limits of the city shall be charged with a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be fined an amount not to exceed $200 for
each violation. Prosecution or conviction under this provision shall never be a
bar to any other remedy or relief for violations of §
70.01.
   (C)   Any person, firm, company or corporation who shall violate any
provision of §
70.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $200 and each offense shall be deemed to be a
separate violation and punishable as a second offense.
   (D)   (1)   Any person, either by himself, herself or agent, and any firm,
corporation or other entity who violates any provision of §
70.03 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction of any
violation, shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $500 for each
offense. Each day during which the violation continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct defense. In any case of a violation of any of the terms
or provisions of §
70.03 by any corporation, the officers and agents actively in charge of the
business of the corporation shall be subject to the penalty herein provided. If
the offense, defined herein, which has been defined by the laws of the state as
an offense and which penalty has been prescribed, should be punished as
provided in state law and nothing herein shall be held as fixing any penalty
contrary to a penalty provided by the laws of the state.
      (2)   Any roller skate, skateboard or street skate used in the offense,
as provided herein, in violation of §
70.03 shall be confiscated as evidence of the offense by the officer enforcing
the offense and retained as evidence until disposition of the charges resulting
from the offense.
   (E)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
70.04 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200.
   (F)   Any person or persons who shall violate the provisions of §
70.05 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
   (G)   Any person, either by himself, herself or agent, and any firm,
corporation or other entity who violates any provision of §
70.20 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor; and, upon conviction of any
violation, shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $500 for each
offense. Each day during which the violation continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct defense. In any case of a violation of any of the terms
or provisions of §
70.20 by any corporation, the officers and agents actively in charge of the
business of the corporation shall be subject to the penalty herein provided. If
the offense, defined herein, which has been defined by the laws of the state as
an offense and which penalty has been prescribed, should be punished as
provided in the state law and nothing herein shall be held as fixing any
penalty contrary to a penalty provided by the laws of the state.
   (H)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.21 shall de deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $25.
(Ord. passed 6-8-1966; Ord. 722, passed 9-13-1972; Ord. 742, passed 5-8-1974;
Ord. 702, passed 6-15-1982; Ord. passed 7-18-1987; Ord. passed 8-18-1987; Ord.
passed 11-15-1994; Ord. passed 7-17-2007)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Truck routes
      
II.   Speed limits
      
III.   Weight limits
SCHEDULE I. TRUCK ROUTES.
   The streets and thoroughfares within the corporate limits of the city which
are enumerated as follows are hereby designated as truck routes:
Route Extent
Route                 Extent
Cannon Street         From Crosby Street to East Highway 105
Crosby Street         From North Highway 326 to Cannon Street
Fannin Street         South from Second Street to Highway 105
North Merchant Street From corporate city limits to Highway 105
Old Beaumont Road     From corporate city limits to Highway 326
Second Street         To corporate city limits
State Highway 105     Entire extent within corporate limits of the city
State Highway 326     Entire extent within corporate limits of the city
 
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   The maximum legal speed limits for both State Highway 105 and State Highway
326 have been surveyed and are as set out in the Speed Zone Strip Maps adopted
herein by reference and incorporated as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 10-17-1989; Ord. passed 5-17-1994)
SCHEDULE III. WEIGHT LIMITS.
   This schedule applies to all persons operating any vehicle or loads on, over
or across the following public rights-of-way within the city, which are hereby
and hereafter restricted to vehicles or load limits of one ton (2,000 pounds)
or less, with the exception of emergency vehicles and environmental waste
companies (garbage trucks):
   (A)   From Highway 105 to West Barkley Street on South Merchant Street; and
   (B)   From South Fannin to South Ann on 6th Street.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2007)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
Location Prohibition Penalty Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                 Prohibition               Penalty Ord. No. Date Passed
Along the east side of
South Highway 326 from   No parking for trucks and $200    -        5-25-1999
Old Beaumont to the      vehicles
south city limits
Along the west side of
South Highway 326 from   No parking for trucks and $200    -        5-25-1999
Old Beaumont to the      vehicles
south city limits
Along the south side of
Highway 105 from         No parking                $200    -        3-19-1985
Merchant to Gustan
Along with north side of
Highway 105 from         No parking                $200    -        3-19-1985
Merchant to Gustan
Along the east side of   No truck parking;
South Ann Street from    vehicles in excess of 1   $200    -        3-19-1985
Cora Lee to Herring      ton
Along the west side of   No truck parking;
South Ann Street from    vehicles in excess of 1   $200    -        3-19-1985
Cora Lee to Herring      ton
Along the south side of
Highway 105 from         No parking                $200    -        12-18-1984
Railroad to Gustan
Along the north side of
Highway 105 from         No parking                $200    -        12-18-1984
Merchant to Gustan
Along the east side of   No parking for trucks and
South Highway 326 from   vehicles                  $200    -        9-20-1994
Highway 105 to Barkley
Along the west side of   No parking for trucks and
South Highway 326 from   vehicles                  $200    -        9-20-1994
Highway 105 to Barkley
South side of State
Highway 105 extending
west 175 feet from the   No parking                $200    -        8-17-2004
intersection of Merchant
Street and State Highway
105
Along the north side of
Highway 326 from the
intersection of State    Limited parking only for  $1—$50-        2-18-2003
Highway 105 and State    trucks and vehicles
Highway 326 to East
Crosby Street
 
CHAPTER 73:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
73.01   Purpose
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Limited operation
   
73.04   License required
   
73.05   Manner of operations
   
73.06   Registration of golf carts
   
73.07   Disclaimer and liability
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapter is to provide a means of travel that is not only
convenient and safe but conserves and protects the environment.  Golf carts, if
properly used, can be an effective way to travel for short distances within the
city.  However, to ensure the public safety and welfare, the operation of golf
carts must not only comply with normal regulations regarding vehicles but
should comply with special safety regulations intended to protect the operator
and passengers in a vehicle that is primarily designed for operation on a golf
course or for recreational purposes.  This chapter established the basic,
minimum standards of care to be used by the operators of golf carts on public
roads, street and highways.  Likewise, the public safety required that golf
carts, when used as a means of transportation, must also meet certain minimum
safety standards that can only be assured through a system of regulation and
inspection.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2013)
§ 73.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY STREETS.  A road, street, way, thoroughfare, or bridge over which the
city has legislative jurisdiction under its police powers.
   DAYTIME.  The period beginning one-half hour before sunrise and ending one-
half hour before sunset.
   GOLF CART.  Has the meaning assigned by the Tex. Trans. Code § 502.001. 
Further, GOLF CART means a motor vehicle with not less than three wheels
designed by the manufacturer primarily for transporting persons on a golf
course without regard to the mode of propulsion or any modifications made to
the body, chassis, or any portion of the golf cart by any person.  Golf carts
specifically exclude go-carts, neighborhood electric vehicles, off-road
vehicles, utility vehicles, and all-terrain vehicles, as defined by the Texas
Transportation Code.
   LICENSE.  A license or permit to operate a motor vehicle issued by a state.
   OPERATE.  Has the meaning assigned by Tex. Trans. Code § 724.001.
   OPERATOR.  A person who drives or is in control of a golf cart.
   OWNER.  A person assigned by Tex. Trans. Code § 502.001.
   PUBLIC HIGHWAY.  Has the meaning assigned by Tex. Trans. Code § 502.001.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2013)
§ 73.03  LIMITED OPERATION.
   An operator may operate a golf cart in compliance with Tex. Trans. Code §
551.403 as amended or suspended, on a public, street, road or  highway within
the corporate city limits for which the posted speed limit is not more than 35
miles per hour, if the golf cart is operated:
   (A)   During the daytime; and
   (B)   Not more than two miles from the location where the golf cart is
usually parked.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2013)
§ 73.04  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person who is less than 16 years of age or who does not have a valid
driver's license issued under or granted by the law of the State of Texas or
some other state may operate a golf cart on any public street, road or highway
within the city or on any property controlled by the city.  For purposes of
this section, a learner's permit shall not be considered as a valid driver's
license nor shall any license that has been revoked, temporarily or otherwise,
or suspended for any reason be considered as a valid driver's license during
the period of revocation or suspension.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2013)
§ 73.05  MANNER OF OPERATIONS.
   Golf carts shall not be operated on the public street, roads and highways of
the city except in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Hours of operation.  Golf carts may be driven on approved public
roads, street and highways from sunrise until sunset.  Golf carts may not be
operated when fog, smoke or other conditions reduce visibility so that the golf
cart is not visible for a minimum distance of 250 feet.
   (B)   Streets.  A golf cart may cross intersections, including a road or
street that has a posted speed limit of more than 35 miles per hour, provided
the crossing is at an intersection and is perpendicular to the public highway
or city street.
   (C)   Use within corporate boundaries.  Golf carts may be operated within
the corporate city limits on all parts of a city street with a posted speed
limit of not more than 35 miles per hour.
   (D)   Right of way.  The operator of a golf cart shall yield the right of
way to overtaking motor vehicles.
   (E)   City property and sidewalks.  Golf carts shall not be operated on any
sidewalk, pedestrian walkway or city park except for official police business
or by city personnel on city business.
   (F)   Golf cart capacity.  The seating capacity, normally no more than four
passengers, shall not be exceeded nor shall the operator or occupant be
permitted to stand while the golf cart is in operation or allow any occupant of
the golf cart to ride in the lap of the operator or any other occupant.
   (G)   Commercial purposes.  Golf carts may not be used as a taxicab or bus
for the commercial carrying of passengers or the hauling of freight.
   (H)   Parking.  Golf carts may only be parked in the same manner and at the
same places designed for the parking of motor vehicles.  The stopping,
standing, or parking of golf carts in an area where parking is not allowed or
in any place that impedes the flow of traffic, pedestrian walkways, or a
passageway is prohibited.
   (I)   Towing.  Golf carts may not be used for the purpose of towing another
cart, trailer, vehicle of any kind, including a person on roller skates,
skateboard, or bicycle.
   (J)   Alcohol use.  No person under the influence of an alcoholic beverage
shall operate or be in control of any golf cart operated within the city.  No
golf cart shall have an open alcoholic beverage container aboard while in
operation.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2013)
§ 73.06  REGISTRATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Required.  No golf cart may be operated on any public street, road and
highway within the city and on property controlled by the city unless the golf
cart has first been registered with the Police Department.  The registration
shall be renewed on a biennial basis thereafter in accordance with the
provisions of this section.  To evidence the registration, the owner shall be
issued a biennial permit that shall be displayed in a prominent, visible place
on the rear fender of the golf cart or at other place on the cart as may be
approved by the Police Department.  The permit may contain a registration
number assigned for the particular golf cart and may contain an expiration
date.
   (B)   Registration fee.  A registration fee in an amount as may be
established and published in the schedule of fees and charges adopted from time
to time by the City Council shall be paid to the city at the time the
application for registration is filed with the Police Department and for any
renewal of the registration.
   (C)   Application.  The application for registration shall be filed with the
Chief of Police; to his or her designee, on forms provided by the city.  The
application shall, among other things, be required to provide the following
information: owner's name; street address, mailing address, and telephone
number; make and model, and identification or serial number of the golf cart;
proof of insurance and such other information as shall be reasonably required,
as well as a signed Release, Indemnity and Disclaimer of any Liability by the
city for accidents involving the registered golf cart and its subsequent use
within the City of Sour Lake or its extra-territorial jurisdiction.
   (D)   Procedures.  The Chief of Police may establish written procedures,
consistent with this chapter, setting out the process and the procedure for
registration, including the form of the application, the check list for items
to be inspected, and the type of sticker or other device evidencing the
issuance of the registration permit.
   (E)   Inspection.  Prior to issuing the initial registration permit or any
renewal thereof, the golf cart shall either be inspected or, in place of
inspection, the Police Department may require photographs submitted of the golf
cart, to determine:
      (1)   Head lamps;
      (2)   Tail lamps;
      (3)   Reflectors;
      (4)   Parking brake;
      (5)   Mirrors; and
      (6)   Slow-moving vehicle emblem that:
         (a)   Has a reflective surface designed to be clearly visible in
daylight at a distance of at least 500 feet;
         (b)   Is mounted base down on the rear of the golf cart at a height
from three to five feet above the road surface; and
         (c)   Is maintained in a clean, reflective condition.
   (F)   Denial and revocation.  The initial registration of a golf cart may be
denied or subsequently revoked by the Chief of Police if it is determined that:
      (1)   The application contains any material misrepresentation;
      (2)   Financial responsibility requirement (liability insurance) of the
state has not been met;
      (3)   The golf cart is not in compliance with the requirements set out
above;
      (4)   The golf cart has been altered or customized and no longer meets
the definition of a golf cart;
      (5)   Equipment supplied by the manufacturer, especially safety
equipment, has been removed from the golf cart or the vehicle identification or
serial number has been removed; or
      (6)   Other good cause shown, including repeated violation of this
chapter.
   (G)   Financial responsibility.  The owner of a golf cart is required to be
registered with the city for use on public streets, roads and highways and
shall maintain, in full force and effect and continuously throughout any period
of registration, the financial responsibility for a 12 month period.
   (H)   Disqualified vehicles.  ATV's, four-wheel utility and other similar
utility vehicles which are not manufactured for operation on a golf course, and
golf carts that have been modified so that they no longer meet the definition
of a golf cart may not be registered as a golf cart and such vehicles shall not
be operated on the public roads, streets and highways within the city unless
vehicles are otherwise registered with and allowed under the motor vehicles
laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2013)
§ 73.07  DISCLAIMER AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Disclaimer.  Golf carts are not designed for nor manufactured to be
used on public streets, and the city neither advocated nor endorses the golf
carts as a safe means of travel on public streets, roads, and highways.  The
city in no way shall be liable for accidents, injuries, or death involving the
operation of golf carts within the City of Sour Lake or its extra-territorial
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Assumption of risk.  Any person who owns, operates,  or rides in upon
a golf cart on a public street, road or highway within the city does so at his
or her own risk and peril and assumes all liability resulting from the
operation of the golf cart.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2013)
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   Persons who shall violate a provision of this chapter or any subsequent
section thereto or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $500. 
Each violation is a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2013)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   WEEDS AND VEGETATION
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
94.   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
      
95.   NOISE
      
96.   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
      
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Preamble
   
90.02   Applicability
   
90.03   Discrimination prohibited
   
90.04   Definition of unfair housing practices
   
90.05   Exemptions
   
90.06   Complaint procedure
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  PREAMBLE.
   It is hereby declared the policy of the city to assure full and equal
opportunity to all residents of the city to obtain fair and adequate housing
for themselves and their families in the city without discrimination against
them because of their race, color, sex, age, religion, disability, national
origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, martial status, parental status, military
discharge status or source of income.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2011)
§ 90.02  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Any owner, lessee, sublessee, assignee, managing agent or other
person, firm or corporation having the right to sell, rent or lease any housing
accommodation within the city who shall exercise any function of selling,
renting, leasing or subleasing any housing accommodation within the city shall
be deemed subject to all applicable provisions herein.
   (B)   Any real estate broker who shall exercise any function of a real
estate broker within the city shall be subject to all applicable provisions
herein.
   (C)   Any builder or developer of housing for rent or lease when the housing
exceeds five units on any one property or contiguous properties operating under
any single ownership structure.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2011)
§ 90.03  DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   It is declared to be the policy of the city that no owner, lessee,
sublessee, assignee, managing agent or other person, firm or corporation having
the right to sell, rent or lease any housing accommodation, within the city, or
any agent of any of these, should refuse to sell, rent, lease or otherwise deny
to or withhold from any person or group of persons the housing accommodations
because of his or her race, color, sex, age, religion, disability, national
origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, martial status, parental status, military
discharge status or source of income in the terms, conditions or privileges of
the sale, rental or lease of any housing accommodations or in the furnishing of
facilities or services in connection therewith.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2011)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  DEFINITION OF UNFAIR HOUSING PRACTICES.
   It shall be an unfair housing practice and unlawful for any owner, lessee,
sublessee, assignee, managing agent or other person, firm or corporation having
the right to sell, rent, lease or sublease any housing accommodation, within
the city, any agent of any of these or any real estate broker licensed as such:
   (A)   To make any distinction, discrimination or restriction against any
person in the price, terms, conditions or privileges of any kind relating to
the sale, rental, lease or occupancy of any real estate used for residential
purposes in the city which will indicate or express any limitations or
discriminations in the sale, rental or leasing of the residential real estate,
predicated upon the race, color, sex, age, religion, disability, national
origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, martial status, parental status, military
discharge status or source of income of the perspective or actual buyer or
tenant thereof;
   (B)   To publish, circulate, issue or display, or cause to be published,
circulated, issued or displayed, any communication, notice, advertisement, sign
or other writing of any kind relating to the sale, rental or leasing of any
residential real property within the city which will indicate or express any
limitations or discriminations in the sale, rental or leasing of the
residential real estate, predicated upon the race, color, sex, age, religion,
disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, martial status,
parental status, military discharge status or source of income of any
prospective buyer or renter;
   (C)   To refuse to sell, lease or rent, any real estate for residential
purposes within the city because of the race, color, sex, age, religion,
disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, martial status,
parental status, military discharge status or source of income of the proposed
buyer or renter;
   (D)   To discriminate or to participate in discrimination in connection with
borrowing or lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages or
otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the purchase, acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of any residential housing
unit or housing accommodation in the city because race, color, sex, age,
religion, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, martial
status, parental status, military discharge status or source of income;
   (E)   To solicit for sale, lease or listing for sale or lease, residential
real estate within the city on the ground of loss of value due to the present
or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person or persons of any
particular race, color, sex, age, religion, disability, national origin,
ancestry, sexual orientation, martial status, parental status, military
discharge status or source of income;
   (F)   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of residential real estate in the city
to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or prospective
change in the race, color, sex, age, religion, disability, national origin,
ancestry, sexual orientation, martial status, parental status, military
discharge status or source of income of persons in the neighborhood;
   (G)   To deliberately and knowingly refuse examination of any listing of
residential real estate within the city to any person because of race, color,
sex, age, religion, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation,
marital status, parental status, military discharge status or source of income;
   (H)   To deliberately and knowingly refuse to make reasonable accommodation
for a person with disabilities in the lease or rental of housing; and
   (I)   To build or cause to be built, housing in excess of five units on any
one property or contiguous properties, which fails to meet the standards
defined by:
      (1)   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 USC 794;
      (2)   The American with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 USC 12101 et
seq.;
      (3)   The Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. 4151 et
seq..
(Ord. passed 1-18-2011)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  EXEMPTIONS.
   No provision of this chapter shall be construed to prohibit any of the
following:
   (A)   Restricting rental or sale of a housing accommodation to a person of a
certain age group when:
      (1)   The housing accommodation is authorized, approved, financed or
subsidized in whole or in part for the benefit of that age group by a unit of
state, local or federal government; or
      (2)   The duly recorded initial declaration of a condominium of community
association limits the housing accommodations to persons above the age of 55;
provided that, a person or the immediate family of a person owning or renting a
unit in the housing accommodation prior to the recording of the initial
declaration shall not be deemed to be in violation of the age restriction as
long as the person or the person’s immediate family continue to want or reside
in the housing accommodation.
   (B)   A religious organization, association or society, or any not-for-
profit institution or organization operated, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association or society, from
limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a dwelling which owns or operates for
other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or from giving
preference to the persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to
the persons, unless membership in the religion is restricted on account of
race, color or national origin; or
   (C)   Restricting the rental of rooms in a housing accommodation to persons
of one sex.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2011)
§ 90.06  COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved in any manner by any violation of this chapter
may file a written complaint with the following:
      Texas Workforce Commission
      Civil Rights Division
      101 East 15th St., Room 144-T
      Austin, Texas 78778
      (888) 452-4778
      Ft. Worth Regional Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity
      U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
      801 Cherry Street, Suite 2500
      Ft. Worth, Texas 76102
      (817) 978-5900
      (800) 699-9777
   (B)   The complaint shall include the name and address of the complainant
and of every person against whom the complaint is made, and shall set out the
facts giving rise to the compliant.
   (C)   No person shall refuse or fail to comply with any subpoena, order or
decision issued in the course of or as a result of an investigation of a
complaint.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2011)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   Any owner, lessee, sublessee, assignee, managing agent or other person,
firm, corporation or real estate broker, who shall violate or fail to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter, as determined by the Mayor and City
Council, shall be punished by a fine in any sum not exceeding $500. Nothing
herein contained shall be construed so as to preclude any aggrieved person from
pursuing other and further legal and equitable relief to which he or she may be
entitled.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2011)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Cruelty prohibited
   
91.03   Dangerous animals
   
91.04   Nuisances
   
91.05   Limiting number of household pets
   
91.06   Diseased animals
   
91.07   Animals not allowed with exception
   
91.08   Effective date
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. Dog, cat, horse, cattle, sheep, goat, swine or pig, fowl, reptile
or any other animal considered an exotic animal.
   CITY. The City of Sour Lake.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010)
§ 91.02  CRUELTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the city in any way.
   (B)   Any person who inhumanely beats, underfeeds, places in harm’s way,
overloads or abandons any animal shall be guilty of a violation of this
section.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous or vicious animal of any kind
to run at-large in the city, or to keep or board potentially dangerous or
vicious animals in a manner or place that puts the surrounding inhabitants
(persons, pets or animals) in direct hazardous or stressful contact with the
dangerous or vicious animals while the surrounding inhabitants are proceeding
about their normal, natural, instinctive and legal activities. Exhibitions or
parades of animals which are farae naturae in the eyes of the law may be
conducted only by securing a permit from the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  NUISANCES.
   No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his or her
animals and the premises where the animals are kept to prevent animals and/or
premises from becoming a public nuisance. The following conditions, situations
or occurrences are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and a failure of the
owner to exercise proper care and control of their animal and/or the premises
where the animal is or has been kept shall be considered a violation by the
following:
   (A)   Any animal which turns over garbage containers or scatters garbage or
which otherwise damages private or public property;
   (B)   Any animal running at large;
   (C)   Any animal which barks, whines, howls or makes noise that disturbs the
peace and quiet of the neighborhood, whether considered excessive, continuous
or untimely during the day or night;
   (D)   Any building, room, cage, yard, run or other place or facility where
animals are kept or harbored, save and except commercial animal establishments,
and not maintained in a clean and sanitary condition so as to prevent obnoxious
odors, the attraction, breeding or potential breeding of flies, rodents and/or
other disease carrying insects or animals, or the creation of any other public
health nuisances; and
   (E)   To picket or tie any animal in any of the streets or the city for the
purpose of grazing or feeding.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  LIMITING NUMBER OF HOUSEHOLD PETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to house or board more than two dogs and/or two
cats within the city unless the premises is a commercial animal establishment
(veterinary facility, animal shelter, animal grooming or boarding facility).
   (B)   All dogs and cats must be registered annually with the city.
   (C)   All dogs and cats shall have an annual rabies vaccination by licensed
veterinarian with current tags attached to the collars on each dog and cat
annually within the city.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  DISEASED ANIMALS.
   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall
be allowed to run at large, or to be exposed in any public place whereby the
health of the public or other animals may be affected.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07  ANIMALS NOT ALLOWED WITH EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or have any horse, cattle, sheep, goats, swine
or pigs, fowl, reptiles or exotic animals anywhere in the city. With exception
of cattle or horses, for each full acres of land owned and allowed for
livestock grazing, the landowner shall have no more than one cow or one horse
per fenced five-acre tract of available grazing land including stable within
the boundaries of landowner’s property and may add an additional horse or cow
for each additional five acres of fenced grazing land to the property.
Therefore, if a property owner has ten acres of fenced grazing land including
stables, then two horses, two cows combination totaling.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect from and after its passage and publication.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter within the corporate
limits of the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be fined an amount not exceeding $500. Each day that the violation continues
shall be a separate offense. Prosecution or conviction under this provision
shall never be a bar to any other remedy or relief for violations of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010)
CHAPTER 92:  WEEDS AND VEGETATION
Section
   
92.01   Weeds, brush, rubbish; public nuisances
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Notice to property owner
   
92.04   Abatement by city generally
   
92.05   Removal of weeds by city at request of property owner
   
92.06   Authority to abate violation of chapter without subsequent notice on or
before first anniversary of the date of original notice of violation
   
92.07   Authority to abate dangerous weed without notice
§ 92.01  WEEDS, BRUSH, RUBBISH; PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Whenever weeds, brush, rubbish and all other objectionable, unsightly
and unsanitary matter of whatever nature shall exist, covering or partly
covering the surface of any lot, lots or parcels of real estate situated within
the city limits, or when any lot, lots or parcels of real estate, as aforesaid,
shall have the surface thereof filled or partly filled with holes or be in a
condition that the same holds or is liable to hold stagnant water therein, or
if from any other cause shall be in a condition as to be liable to cause
disease or produce, harbor or spread disease germs of any nature or tend to
render the surrounding atmosphere unhealthy, unwholesome or obnoxious, the same
shall constitute and is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance, the
prompt abatement of which is hereby declared to be a public necessity.
   (B)   The lot, lots or parcels of real estate, in addition to these grounds
within their respective boundaries, shall be held to include all lots or
parcels of ground lying and being adjacent to and extending beyond the property
line of any lots or parcels of real estate to the curb line of adjacent
streets, where a curb line has been established, and 14 feet beyond the
property line where no curb line has been established on adjacent streets, and
also to the center of adjacent alleys.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2001)
§ 92.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANY AND ALL OTHER OBJECTIONABLE, UNSIGHTLY OR UNSANITARY MATTER OF WHATEVER
NATURE. All uncultivated vegetable growth, objects and matters not included
within the meaning of other terms as herein used, which are liable to produce
or tend to produce an unhealthy, unwholesome or unsanitary condition to the
premises within the general locality where the same are situated, and shall
include any species of ragweed or other vegetable growth which might or tend to
be unhealthy to individuals residing within the general locality of where the
same are situated.
   BRUSH. All trees or shrubbery under seven feet in height which are not
cultivated or cared for by persons owning or controlling the premises.
   RUBBISH. All refuse, rejected tin cans, old vessels of all sorts, useless
articles, discarded clothing and textiles of all sorts, and in general, all
litter and all things usually included within the meaning of the term.
   WEEDS. All rank and uncultivated vegetable growth or matter which has grown
to more than nine inches in height or which, regardless of height, is liable to
become an unwholesome or decaying mass or a breeding place for mosquitoes or
vermin.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2001)
§ 92.03  NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER.
   Whenever the existence of any nuisance, as defined in this chapter, on any
lots, lots or parcels of real estate situated within the city shall come to the
knowledge of the City Administrator or the city, it shall be his or her duty to
forthwith cause a written notice identifying the property to be issued to the
person owning the same. The notice shall be addressed to the person at his or
her post office address or by publication as many as two times within ten
consecutive days, if personal service may not be had or if the owner’s address
is not known, requiring the abatement of the nuisance by grubbing and removing
the weeds, brush, rubbish or other objectionable, unsightly or unsanitary
matter of whatever nature, as the case may be, or by filling in, draining,
leveling or otherwise regulating the lot, lots or parcels of real estate so as
to prevent stagnant water standing therein, within ten days from the service of
the notice. The notice shall further state that, in default of the performance
of the above condition, the city may at once cause the same to be done and pay
therefor and charge the cost and expense incurred in doing or having the work
done, or improvements made to the owner of the property, and fix a lien thereof
as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2001)
§ 92.04  ABATEMENT BY CITY GENERALLY.
   In the event of the failure, refusal or neglect of the owner or occupant of
any premises or property to cause the nuisance to be removed or abated in the
manner and within the time provided in §
92.03, it shall be the duty of the City Administrator to cause the weeds,
brush, rubbish or other unsanitary matter or condition constituting a nuisance,
to be promptly and similarly abated, in a reasonable and prudent manner, at the
expense of the city. The City Administrator or his or her duly authorized
representative shall carefully compile the cost of the work done and
improvements made in abating the nuisance and charge the same against the owner
of the premises. The City Council hereby finds and declares that general
overhead of administrative expense of inspection, locating the owner, issuing
notice, re-inspection and ordering work done, together with all necessary
incidents of same require the reasonable charge of $20 for each lot, series of
two or more adjacent and contiguous lots, or tract or parcel or acreage, and
the minimum charge is hereby established and declared to be an expense of the
work and improvement. Notwithstanding, therefore, any tabulation of recorded
cost, a minimum charge of $20 is hereby expressly stated to be a minimum charge
only and shall have no application when tabulated cost of the work is done
shall exceed the minimum charge. After receiving from the City Administrator a
compilation of the cost of work and after charging the same against the owner
of the premises, the Mayor shall certify a statement of the expense and shall
file the same with the County Clerk. Upon filing the statement with the County
Clerk, the city shall have a privileged lien upon the land described therein
and upon which the improvements have been made, second only to tax liens and
liens for street improvements, to secure the expenditure so made, and 10%
interest on the amount from the date of the payment. For any such expenditures
and interest, as aforesaid, suit may be instituted by the City Attorney and
recovery and foreclosure had in the name of the municipal corporation of the
city; and the statement so made, as aforesaid or certified copy thereof, shall
be prima facie proof of the amount expended in any work or improvement. Upon
payment of the full charges assessed against any property, pursuant to the
herein above expenditures set forth, the Mayor shall be authorized to execute
for and in behalf of the city, a written release of the lien heretofore
mentioned, the written release to be on a form prepared and approved in each
case by the City Attorney.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2001)
§ 92.05  REMOVAL OF WEEDS BY CITY AT REQUEST OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   Any property owner of a vacant property in the city shall have the right to
contract with the city to remove all weeds and vegetation as may grow on the
real estate by requesting in writing to the City Administrator so to do, and by
agreeing to the charge to be paid therefor per lot, series of two or more
adjacent and contiguous lots, or tract or parcel of acreage, to be charged
against the property for each removal of weeds and vegetation.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2001)
§ 92.06  AUTHORITY TO ABATE VIOLATION OF CHAPTER WITHOUT SUBSEQUENT NOTICE ON
OR BEFORE FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF THE DATE OF ORIGINAL NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The city in the notice of a violation may inform the owner by
certified mail return receipt requested, that if the owner commits another
violation of the same kind or nature that poses a danger to the public health
and safety on or before the first anniversary of the date of the notice, the
city without further notice may correct the violation at the owner’s expense
and assess the expense against the property.
   (B)   (1)   If a violation covered by this notice occurs within the one-year
period, and the city has not been informed in writing by the owner of an
ownership change, then the city, without notice, may:
         (a)   Do the work or make the improvements required; and
         (b)   Pay for the work done or improvements made and charge the
expenses to the owner of the property.
      (2)   The costs and expenses can be assess as provided in §
92.04.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2001)
§ 92.07  AUTHORITY TO ABATE DANGEROUS WEED WITHOUT NOTICE.
   (A)   The city may abate, without notice, weeds that:
      (1)   Have grown higher than 48 inches; and
      (2)   Are an immediate danger to the health, life or safety of any
person.
   (B)   Not later than the tenth day after the date the city abates weeds
under this section, the city shall give notice to the property owner containing
the following:
      (1)   An identification, which is not required to be a legal description
of the property;
      (2)   A description of the violations of the chapter that occurred on the
property;
      (3)   A statement that the city abated the weeds;
      (4)   An explanation of the property owner’s right to request an
administrative hearing about the city’s abatement of weeds;
      (5)   Addressed personally to the owner in writing;
      (6)   By letter addressed to the owner at the owner’s post office
address; or
      (7)   If personal service cannot be obtained or the owner’s post office
address is unknown:
         (a)   By publication at least twice within ten consecutive days;
         (b)   By posting the notice on or near the front door of each building
on the property to which the violation relates; or
         (c)   By posting the notice on a placard attached to a stake driven
into the ground on the property to which the violation relates, if the property
contains no buildings.
   (C)   The city shall conduct an administrative hearing on the abatement of
weeds under this section if, not later than the thirtieth day after the date of
the abatement of the weeds, the property owner files with the city a written
request for a hearing.
   (D)   The city shall conduct an administrative hearing not later than the
twentieth day after the date a request for a hearing is filed. The owner may
testify or present any witnesses or written information relating to the city’s
abatement of the weeds.
   (E)   The city shall assess expenses and create liens under this section as
it assesses expenses and creates liens under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2001)
CHAPTER 93:  FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
   
93.01   Wildfire threats
   
93.02   Outdoor burning
   
93.03   Fireworks
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  WILDFIRE THREATS.
   (A)   The incorporated limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction be
designated as an area of imminent threat of disaster from wildfires are as
authorized by the Texas Disaster Act in 1975.
   (B)   The following emergency regulations are hereby established for the
incorporated area and its extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city for the
duration of the declaration.
      (1)   Action prohibited. A person violates this order if he or she burns
any combustible material outside of an enclosure, which serves to contain all
flames and/or sparks, or order the burning by others.
      (2)   Enforcement.
         (a)   Upon notification of suspected outdoor burning, the Fire
Department assigned to the location of the fire shall respond to the scene and
take immediate measures to contain and/or extinguish the fire.
         (b)   As soon as possible, a duly commissioned peace officer shall be
sent to the scene to investigate the nature of the fire.
         (c)   If, in the opinion of the officer at the scene and/or the Fire
Chief, the goal of the order can be attained by performing the responsible
party about the prohibition established by this order, the officer may, at his
or her discretion, notify the party about the provisions of this order and
request compliance with it. In those instances, an entry of the notification
shall be made into the dispatcher’s log containing the time, date and place of
the warning, and the name of the person receiving the warning.
   (C)   The city does hereby declare a state of disaster based on the threat
of large wildfires in the city.
   (D)   This order may be forced by any duly commissioned peace officer and
that the venue for prosecution of this order will be the Justice of the Peace
Court as allowed by the Act.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect, for the incorporated
areas of the city, as authorized by the Texas Disaster Act, 1975 in enforcing a
burn ban within the incorporated limits of the city and additionally in full
force and effect when any ordinance or resolution is adopted by the County
Judge or its Commissioner’s Court to enforce a burn ban in any unincorporated
areas of the county.
   (F)   Adopted after its final passage, approval, recording and publication
as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2000)
§ 93.02  OUTDOOR BURNING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY.  The City of Sour Lake.
      EXTINGUISH.  means the absence of any visible flames, glowing coals or
smoke.
      OUTDOOR BURNING.  Any burning regulated by Title 30, §§ 111.201 - 111.221
of the Texas Administrative Code.
      PRESCRIBED BURN.  The controlled application of fire to naturally
occurring vegetative fuels under specified environmental conditions and
confined to a predetermined area, following appropriate planning and
precautionary measures.
      SUNRISE/SUNSET.  Official sunrise/sunset as set forth in the United
States Naval Observatory table’s available from the National Weather Service
office.
      TCEQ.  Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.
   (B)   Outdoor burning in residential area within the city. Outdoor burning
may be done on private property in residentially zoned area under the following
conditions:
      (1)   The burning must be a “prescribed burn” as defined in this section.
      (2)   The burning must be on-site burning of brush, grass, leaves, branch
trimmings, or other plant growth by the owner of the property or other per
authorized by the owner, and the material is generated only from that property.
      (3)   The burn shall commence no earlier than one hour after sunrise and
be extinguished one hour before sunset.
      (4)   The burn shall be a single burn pile in no larger than 60 inches in
diameter and 36 inches in height at any time.
      (5)   The burn shall be attended by a responsible person at all times.
      (6)   Water must be available at the burn area at all times.
      (7)   The burn shall not cause adverse health effects to humans. Persons
claiming such adverse health effects will verbally notify the police department
or the fire department of the same. The police department or the fire marshal
shall then direct that the open fire be immediately and completely
extinguished. Failure to comply will subject the person with the open fire to
the penalty provisions.
      (8)   The burn shall be extinguished when so ordered by a fire, police,
or environmental quality official.
      (9)   A burn shall not be commenced when wind or any other conditions
create an unsafe environment.
      (10)   Burning in drainage ditches is expressly prohibited.
      (11)   A burn shall not be allowed anytime the County Judge/City Mayor
issues a burn ban for the county/city.
   (C)   Prohibited. The following list of items, while not exhaustive, shall
not be burned: household solid waste, tires, petroleum products, putrescible
waste, hazardous waste, construction or demolition waste, garbage or municipal
solid waste, treated wood, furniture, carpet, electrical wire, appliances,
diseased animal carcasses or any other item thought by the federal state or
local government to be a public nuisance or hazard.
(Ord. 02-01-2019, passed 3-19-2019)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03  FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, give away, sell,
offer or expose for sale, or have in possession with intent to give away, sell
or to use, discharge or cause to be discharged, ignited, fired or otherwise set
in action, or to possess with the intent to discharge or cause to be
discharged, ignited, fired or otherwise set in action within the limits of the
city, any fireworks, firecrackers, rockets, sparklers, torpedoes, Roman
candles, fire-balloons or other fireworks or substances of any combination
whatsoever designed or intended for pyrotechnic display, except as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to the sale of any article or
articles by wholesalers to each other, or to the sale of any article or
articles at wholesale to merchants conducting business entirely without the
city, or to the sale by wholesalers for private or public demonstrations as
hereinafter provided, or to the storage of any article or articles by the
wholesalers for private or public demonstrations as hereinafter provided, or to
the storage of any article or articles by the wholesalers for any of those
purposes, or to the sale, storage or use of colored flares or railroad track
torpedoes or other transportation signaling devices or to the sale, storage or
use of flashlight composition by photographers or dealers in photographic
supplies, or to the sale, storage or use of blank cartridges for theatrical
purposes or for signal purposes in athletic contests or sports events, for the
use of any police organization or federal or state militia.
   (C)   Permits for the public or private display of fireworks may be issued
by the Fire Chief; provided, a person desiring to display any fireworks shall
apply in writing to the Fire Chief for a permit at least 15 days in advance of
the date of the proposed display and shall set forth:
      (1)   The name of the organization sponsoring the display together with
the names of the persons actually in charge of the firing of the display;
      (2)   The date and time of day at which the display is to be held;
      (3)   The exact location planned for the display;
      (4)   A description setting forth the age, and experience in the display
of fireworks, of the persons who are to do the actual discharging of the
fireworks;
      (5)   The number and kinds of fireworks to be discharged;
      (6)   The manner and place of storage of the fireworks prior to the
display; and
      (7)   A diagram of the grounds on which the display is to be held showing
the point at which the fireworks are to be discharged, the location of all
buildings, highways, telegraph, telephone or other overhead obstructions and
trees located within 200 yards from the point at which the fireworks are to be
discharged and the lines behind which the audience will be restrained. The
permit shall not be granted unless the display shall be of a character and so
located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the Fire Chief, after proper
study of the application and proper inspection of the proposed premises, shall
not be hazardous to property or endangering to any person.
   (D)   The Fire Chief shall have the right to be present at the discharge of
any public or private display of fireworks for which a permit has been issued
hereunder and shall have the right to cause the same to be stopped unless it is
conducted in strict accordance with the statements made in the application for
the permit.
   (E)   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
final passage, approval, recording and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1987)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §
93.02 shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be
fined in the amount prescribed by state law.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
93.03 within the corporate limits of the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, shall be fined an amount not exceeding $200. Each day
that the violation continues shall be a separate offense. Prosecution or
conviction under this provision shall never be a bar to any other remedy or
relief for violations of §
93.03.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1987; Ord. 02-01-2019, passed 3-19-2019)
CHAPTER 94:  HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
Section
   
94.01   Regulations adopted
   
94.02   Definition
   
94.03   Responsibility for costs
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   Title 49 C.F.R. parts 100 to 177, revised as of 10-1-1993, made reference
herein and a part hereof for all purposes.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1996)
§ 94.02  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Any substance that meets at least one of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Any petroleum product or by-product; and/or
      (2)   Any mixture or solution containing material identified by 49 C.F.R.
§ 172.101 as materials in a reportable quantity.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1996)
§ 94.03  RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   The owner and/or carrier of any container, package, tank or vessel or
the contents therein shall be responsible for all costs, to include standby
costs, incurred by the city for the cleanup and restoration of any area within
the jurisdiction of the city resulting from contamination by any hazardous
substance described in §
94.02.
   (B)   If there is no actual discharge, leak, release or spill of hazardous
substance, but rather the imminent potential for a discharge, leak, release or
spill, as determined in the reasonable judgement of City Manager or his or her
designate, the owner and/or carrier shall be responsible for all costs, to
include standby costs, incurred by any city agency due to the presence or
threat of release of a hazardous substance.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1996)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   The penalty for any violation shall be a fine not to exceed $500. Each day
any violation of this chapter or of any ordinance shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense. In addition to the penalties hereinabove
provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance
and may be, by the city, abated as provided by law, and each day that the
condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense. The
penalty set forth in this section shall be cumulative of all other penalties
and remedies set forth in this chapter, and the penalty of a fine shall not be
construed so as to allow the payment of a fine in lieu of costs incurred for
cleanup and restoration, or with the duty of complying with court ordered
injunctive relief sought by the city.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1996)
CHAPTER 95:  NOISE
Section
   
95.01   Noises prohibited generally
   
95.02   Enumeration of illegal noises
   
95.03   Effective date
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  NOISES PROHIBITED GENERALLY.
   (A)   Any unreasonably loud, disturbing, unnecessary noise which causes
material distress, discomfort or injury to persons of ordinary sensibilities in
the immediate vicinity thereof is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and is
prohibited.
   (B)   Any noise of the character, intensity and continued duration, which
substantially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of private homes by
person of ordinary sensibilities, is declared to be a nuisance in violation of
this chapter, but the enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1994)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02  ENUMERATION OF ILLEGAL NOISES.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be nuisances in violation
of this chapter, but the enumerations shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   The playing of any television, radio, phonograph, tape player, compact
disc player or musical instrument in a manner or with a volume, at any time, as
to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons of ordinary
sensibilities in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence;
   (B)   The use of any stationary electronic device used for the amplification
of sound of an intensity as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
persons of ordinary sensibilities in any dwelling, hotel or other type of
residence at any time;
   (C)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or long
continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person of ordinary
sensibilities in the immediate vicinity;
   (D)   The continued or frequent sounding of any horn or signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus, truck or other vehicle, except as a danger of
warning signal; the creation by means of any signal device of any unreasonably
loud or harsh dev ice for any unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
   (E)   The running of any motorized vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in
a manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding, jarring or
rattling noise;
   (F)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work, as a warning or
danger, unless prior approval or permission has been granted by the City
Council for the blowing of the whistle;
   (G)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or boat engine, except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
   (H)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, unless
the noise to be created is effectively muffled and reduced;
   (I)   The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration or repair
work on any building other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.,
except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of the public safety and
convenience, and then only by permit from the City Secretary which permit may
be renewed during the time and emergency exists;
   (J)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school or institution of learning while the same is in session or adjacent to
any hospital which unreasonably interferes with the workings of the
institutions, providing conspicuous signs are displayed in a manner indicating
that the same is a school or hospital street;
   (K)   The creation of any loud and excessive noise in connection with the
loading or unloading of any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
   (L)   The raucous shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and vendors which
disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood;
   (M)   The use of any drum, sound amplification system or other instrument or
device for the purpose of attracting attention by the creation of noise to any
performance, show or sale of merchandise;
   (N)   The running of any motorized vehicle without a muffler, or with an
altered muffler, or with a defective muffler, sufficient to contain the sound
so that a person or ordinary sensibilities nearby would not be annoyed or
materially distressed; and
   (O)   Sound system in vehicles:
      (1)   Any person owning, operating, occupying or in control of a motor
vehicle on a street, highway, alley, park, playground, parking lot, driveway,
garage, carport, yard or carwash facility, whether public or private property,
shall operate or permit the operation of any sound amplification system from
within the vehicle so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 50 or
more feet from the vehicle.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (O), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PLAINLY AUDIBLE.
            1.   Any sound produced by a sound amplification system from within
the vehicle, which clearly can be heard at a distance of 50 feet or more.
            2.   Measurement standards shall be by the auditory senses, based
on direct line of sight.
            3.   Words or phrases need not be discernible and bass
reverberations are included.
            4.   The motor vehicle may be stopped, standing, parked or moving
on a street, highway, alley, park, playground, parking lot, driveway, garage,
carport, yard or carwash facility, on public or private property.
         SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any radio, tape player, compact disc
player, loud speaker or other electronic device used for the amplification of
sound.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
the operator was not otherwise prohibited by law from operating the sound
amplification system, and that any of the following apply:
         (a)   The system was being operated to request medical or vehicular
assistance or to warn of a hazardous road condition;
         (b)   The vehicle was an emergency or public safety vehicle;
         (c)   The vehicle was owned and operated by a public utility company,
including the city; or
         (d)   The system or vehicle was used in an authorized public activity,
such as parade, fireworks, sporting event, musical production or other activity
which has the approval of the City Council or a department of the city
authorized to grant the approval.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1994)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective from and after its passage and publication
of the caption of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1994)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, either by himself, herself or agent, and any firm, corporation
or other entity who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor; and, upon conviction of any violation, shall be fined
not less than $5, nor more than $500 for each offense. Each day during which
the violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct defense. In
any case of a violation of any of the terms or provisions of this chapter by
any corporation, the officers and agents actively in charge of the business of
the corporation, shall be subject to the penalty herein provided. In the
offense defined herein which has been defined by the laws of the state as an
offense and which penalty has been prescribed, should be punished as provided
in the state law and nothing herein shall be held as fixing any penalty
contrary to a penalty provided by the laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1994)
CHAPTER 96:  JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
96.01   Short title
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   General exceptions
   
96.04   Junk motor vehicles deemed a public nuisance
   
96.05   Issuance of abatement orders and removal procedures; occupied premises
   
96.06   Issuance of abatement orders and removal procedures; unoccupied
premises
   
96.07   Preliminary procedure to court trial
   
96.08   Hearing of and ruling on court cases pertaining to public nuisance
   
96.09   Removal procedure from unoccupied premises by court order
   
96.10   Compliance by granting permission for removal
   
96.11   Evidence of abandonment
   
96.12   Reconstruction of vehicle prohibited
   
96.13   Notification of Highway Department
   
96.14   Abandoned and unclaimed property
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Junk Motor Vehicle Regulations”.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)
§ 96.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle shall be considered a JUNK MOTOR
VEHICLE which does not have lawfully affixed thereto both an unexpired license
plate and a valid motor vehicle safety inspection certificate, and the
condition of which is one or more of the following:
      (1)   Wrecked;
      (2)   Dismantled;
      (3)   Partially dismantled;
      (4)   Inoperative; and
      (5)   Abandoned.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)
§ 96.03  GENERAL EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions stated in §
96.02 shall not apply to:
   (A)   Racers. Any motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted
or constructed for racing or operation on privately owned dragstrips or
raceways is not considered a junk vehicle;
   (B)   Antiques. Any motor vehicle retained by the owner for antique-
collecting purposes rather than for salvage or for transportation is not
considered a junk vehicle; or
   (C)   Stored vehicles. Any motor vehicle which is the property of any member
of the armed forces of the United States who is on active duty assignment is
not considered a junk vehicle.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)
§ 96.04  JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The presence of any junk motor vehicle on any public or private lot, tract
or parcel of land, or portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or
unimproved, and within the city shall be deemed a public nuisance and it shall
be unlawful for any person to cause or maintain a public nuisance by wrecking,
dismantling, partially dismantling, rendering inoperable, abandoning or
discarding any motor vehicle in the real property of another or to suffer,
permit or allow any junk motor vehicle to be parked, left or maintained on his
or her own real property; provided, however, that, this section shall not apply
with regard to:
   (A)   Any junk motor vehicle in an enclosed building;
   (B)   Any junk motor vehicle in the premises of a business enterprise
operating in a lawful manner, when same is necessary to the operation of the
business enterprise; or
   (C)   Any junk motor vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained at a location officially designated and in a manner approved by the
city.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05  ISSUANCE OF ABATEMENT ORDERS AND REMOVAL PROCEDURES; OCCUPIED
PREMISES.
   (A)   Authorization for issuance of abatement orders. Whenever any public
nuisance exists on occupied premises within the city in violation of §
96.04, the Chief of Police, or duly authorized agent, shall order the owner of
the premises, if in possession thereof, or the occupant of the premises whereon
the public nuisance exists, to abate or remove the same.
   (B)   Content of abatement orders. The orders shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Specify the public nuisance and its location;
      (3)   Specify the corrective measures required; and
      (4)   Provide for compliance within ten days from service thereof.
   (C)   Serving of abatement orders. The orders shall be served upon the owner
of the premises or the occupant by serving him or her personally or by sending
the order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the
premises.
   (D)   Authorization for removal of public nuisance.
      (1)   If the owner or occupant of the premises fails to comply with the
order of the Chief of Police, or a duly authorized agent, within a ten-day
period after service thereof, as provided herein, the Chief of Police, or a
duly authorized agent, shall take possession of the junk motor vehicle and
remove it from the premises.
      (2)   The Chief of Police, or a duly authorized agent, shall thereafter
dispose of the junk motor vehicle in a manner as the City Council may provide.
      (3)   However, if the owner or occupant of the premises so desires, one
may, within the ten-day period after service of notice to abate the nuisance,
request of the Clerk of the Municipal Court of the city, either in person or in
writing and without the requirement of bond, that a date and a time be set when
the person may appear before the Judge of the Municipal Court for a trial to
determine whether or not there is a violation of this chapter; and the trial
shall be set as provided in §
96.08.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)
§ 96.06  ISSUANCE OF ABATEMENT ORDERS AND REMOVAL PROCEDURES; UNOCCUPIED
PREMISES.
   (A)   Authorization for issuance of abatement orders. Whenever any public
nuisance exists on unoccupied premises within the city in violation of §
96.04, and the owner thereof can be found, the Chief of Police, or a duly
authorized agent, shall order the owner of the premises whereon the public
nuisance exists to abate or remove the same.
   (B)   Content of abatement order. The order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Specify the public nuisance and its location;
      (3)   Specify the corrective measure required; and
      (4)   Provide for compliance within ten days from service thereof.
   (C)   Serving of abatement order. The order shall be served upon the owner
of the premises by serving the person personally or by sending the order by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address shown on the current
tax rolls of the city.
   (D)   Authorization for removal of public nuisance.
      (1)   If the owner of the premises fails or refuses to comply with the
order of the Chief of Police, or a duly authorized agent, within ten days after
service thereof, as provided herein, the Chief of Police or a duly authorized
agent shall take possession of the junked motor vehicle and remove it from the
premises.
      (2)   The Chief of Police, or a duly authorized agent, shall thereafter
dispose of the junked motor vehicle in a manner as the City Council may
provide.
      (3)   However, if the owner of the premises so desires, he or she may,
within the ten-day period after service of notice to abate the nuisance,
request of the Clerk of the Municipal Court of the city, either in person or in
writing and without the requirement of bond, that a date and a time be set when
the person may appear before the Judge of the Municipal Court for a trial to
determine whether or not there is a violation of this chapter; and the trial
shall be set as provided in §
96.08.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)
§ 96.07  PRELIMINARY PROCEDURE TO COURT TRIAL.
   Upon receiving a request for trial made pursuant to §§
96.05 and
96.06, the Clerk of the Municipal Court shall set a date and a time for the
trial on the Court docket. The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall notify the
City Attorney of the date and time of the hearing. The City Attorney shall
cause to be prepared, filed and served on the defendant, a written complaint
charging that the owner or occupant of the premises, as the case may be, has
violated this chapter. After serving, the complaint shall be on file with the
Clerk of the Municipal Court not less than ten days prior to the date of the
trial.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)
§ 96.08  HEARING OF AND RULING ON COURT CASES PERTAINING TO PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Hearing of case. The Judge of the Municipal Court shall hear any case
brought before the Court as set out herein, and shall determine whether or not
the defendant is, in fact, in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Penalty upon conviction. Upon finding that the defendant is indeed in
violation of this chapter, the defendant shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to a fine in accordance with the penalty provision
hereinafter set forth.
   (C)   Court order for removal of public nuisance. The Judge of the Court
shall further order the defendant to remove and abate the nuisance within ten
days, the same being a reasonable time. If the defendant shall fail and refuse
within the ten days to abate or remove the nuisance, the Judge of the Municipal
Court may issue an order directing the Chief of Police to have the same
removed, and the Chief of Police, or a duly authorized agent, shall take
possession of the junk motor vehicle and remove it from the premises. The Chief
of Police, or a duly authorized agent, shall thereafter dispose of the junked
motor vehicle in a manner as the City Council may provide.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)
§ 96.09  REMOVAL PROCEDURE FROM UNOCCUPIED PREMISES BY COURT ORDER.
   If a junk motor vehicle, as herein defined, is located on premises that are
unoccupied, and neither the owner of the premises, nor the owner of the vehicle
can be found and notified to remove same; then, upon a showing of fact to the
Judge of the Municipal Court, the Court may issue an order directing the Chief
of Police to have the same removed. The Chief of Police, or a duly authorized
agent, shall thereafter dispose of the junk motor vehicle in a manner as the
City Council may provide.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)
§ 96.10  COMPLIANCE BY GRANTING PERMISSION FOR REMOVAL.
   If, within ten days after receipt of notice from the Chief of Police, or a
duly authorized agent to abate the nuisance, as herein provided, the owner or
occupant of the premises shall give written permission to the Chief of Police,
or a duly authorized agent, for the removal of the junk motor vehicle from the
premises, the granting of the permission shall be considered compliance.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)
§ 96.11  EVIDENCE OF ABANDONMENT.
   If a junked motor vehicle, as defined in this chapter, has been situated on
the private property of another person, without the person’s permission, for a
period of 30 days or longer, this fact shall be prima facie evidence that the
owner of the vehicle has abandoned the same.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)
§ 96.12  RECONSTRUCTION OF VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   After a vehicle is removed and disposed of under the provisions of this
chapter, it shall be unlawful to reconstruct or make the vehicle operable
again.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.13  NOTIFICATION OF HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT.
   Written notice must be given to the State Highway Department within five
days after the date of removal, identifying the vehicle or parts thereof which
have been removed.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)
§ 96.14  ABANDONED AND UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this chapter, motor vehicles or other
property which shall remain unclaimed with the Police Department for a period
of 30 consecutive days shall be conclusively presumed to have been abandoned.
   (B)   Authority for sale. All abandoned, stolen or recovered motor vehicles
or other property which shall remain with the Police Department without being
claimed or re-claimed by the owners, whether known or unknown, may be sold and
disposed of at public auction.
   (C)   Notice and manner of sale. Thirty days’ notice of the time and place
of sale and a descriptive list of the motor vehicles or other property to be
offered for sale shall at any regular entrance to the City Hall. Copies of the
notice shall be sent, by registered mail, to the last known address of the
recorded owner of the title and/or to the lien holder of record, if any, of all
property offered for sale. Thereafter, the property shall be offered for sale
at public auction and sold to the highest bidder for each separate piece of
property offered for sale.
   (D)   Hours of sale. The sale of abandoned motor vehicles or other property
at public auction, as provided for in this chapter, shall be conducted between
the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. at the place and date designated in the
notice.
   (E)   Payment for purchased items. All sales made pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter shall be made for cash.
   (F)   Administrator of sale. The independent contractor with whom the city
shall contract for wrecker and storage service for all motor vehicles or other
property ordered impounded by the Police Department shall conduct the public
auction authorized by this chapter.
   (G)   Reports of administrator of sale. The independent contractor shall
keep an accurate statement of each motor vehicle or other piece of property
sold and the price bid and paid therefor, and shall make a complete report in
writing to the Finance Officer as to time, place and manner of conducting the
sale. All funds received on account of the auction shall be delivered to the
Finance Officer who shall give a receipt therefor.
   (H)   Disposition of receipts. The City Mayor is hereby required to place
all funds received under and by virtue of this chapter to the credit of the
General Fund to be thereafter dispersed as the City Council shall order.
   (I)   Property deemed worthless. Any property which has been listed and
offered for sale and for which no price nor sum has been offered, if deemed, in
the opinion of the contractor, to be worthless and without value, shall be
disposed of in a manner as a contractor shall prescribe. A description of all
property deemed or dispose of as worthless or without value shall be reported
to the City Council, together with the date and manner of disposal.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $200, unless otherwise specified in this chapter. Each transaction in
violation of any of the provisions hereof shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1980)
CHAPTER 97:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
97.01   Numbering of buildings and structures
   
97.02   Obstructions
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01  NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Lots numbered. All erections or other property abutting on any street
or avenue shall be numbered.
   (B)   Base lines. The north boundary of the city limits shall constitute the
base line for all numbering on the streets running north and south, and the
east boundary line of the city limits shall constitute the base lines for all
numbering on the streets running east and west.
   (C)   Numbering. Erections fronting streets from the west and fronting
streets from the north shall bear even numbers in their last figure. Erections
fronting streets from the east and south shall bear odd numbers in their last
figures. Erections fronting streets north and south shall be numbered from the
base line, the numbers shall be zero at the base line and not exceeding the
number 99 at the end of the first block, 101 at the beginning and not to exceed
the number 199 at the end of the second block. The system shall be followed in
number: all of the streets running north and south in this city. Erections
fronting streets east and west shall be numbered from the base line; the
numbers shall be zero at the base line and not to exceed the number 99 at the
end of the first block, 101 at the beginning and not to exceed the number 199
at the end of the second block. The system shall be followed in numbering all
of the streets running east and west in the city. In each block, 25 feet of
frontage shall be deemed the unit for determining the last figure of the number
to be used. From the corner of each block nearest its respective base line each
25 feet of frontage shall be given a number, except where lots vary from 25
feet in frontage width, the lots shall be numbered to conform to the size of
the lot. Fractions may be used if necessary to designate a building located in
a fractional part of a 25-foot frontage.
   (D)   Fixing numbers. The number plate, placed upon any building shall be
metal or wood, or the number may be printed on the front of the building door,
post, transom or other place. The number shall be at least three inches in
height and so as to be easily seen from the street.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall in force and effect from and after
passage and 20 days after its publication as provided by the law.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1947)
§ 97.02  OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council hereby declares it to be the public policy of the
city to keep the public streets, roads and highways open, and to prohibit any
interference with drainage and road ditches and culverts within the city
limits.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC DRAINAGE FACILITY. Any ditch, culvert, drain pipe, sump, pumping
station or discharge point, or drain tile which is a part of any public street,
or which maintained by public funds of the city or the Commissioner’s Court of
the county or any public drainage district or by the State Highway Department
for any continuous consecutive period of time of five years or more, whether
evidenced by any formal recorded designation or not.
      PUBLIC STREET.
         (a)   Any street or roadway heretofore designated as a public street
on any plat or subdivision which has been placed of record in the office of the
County Clerk or which has been approved as a public street by any action by the
City Council or which has been approved as a public road within the city limits
by any action of the County Commissioner’s Court, or by any duly designated
authority of the State Highway Department is hereby declared to be a PUBLIC
STREET for purposes of this section.
         (b)   The term PUBLIC STREET shall also include any street or
thoroughfare or passage way or alley which had been in general use by the
general public, and open to the general public, and maintained by public funds
of the city or the county or the State Highway Department for any continuous
consecutive period of five years or more.
      PUBLIC STREET DITCH. Any ditch or drainage structure adjacent to or
appurtenant to any public street within the city limits.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or intentionally to
obstruct or injure or cause to be obstructed or injured in any manner
whatsoever any public street, road or highway or any street or alley or any
public street ditch or public drainage facility or any culvert, pipe or drain
forming a part of any public street, public street ditch or public drainage
facility within the city limits or any public bridge or causeway within the
city.
(Ord. 1986-5, passed 12-16-1986)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any per son violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever shall willfully or intentionally obstruct or injure or cause
to be obstructed or injured in any manner whatsoever any public street, public
street ditch, public drainage facility, public road or highway or any street or
alley in the city, or any public bridge, culvert, causeway, strip, spillway or
any other public drainage facility or shall fill in any public street ditch or
public drainage facility or culvert or drain without first securing written
permission from the City Manager or the Mayor of the city shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not exceeding $200.
(Ord. 1986-5, passed 12-16-1986)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   WRECKER SERVICES
      
112.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
113.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   OIL AND GAS WELLS; DRILLING
      
115.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
116.   MOBILE SERVICE UNITS
      117.   GAME ROOMS AND GAMING MACHINES
CHAPTER 110:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Beer; consumption
   
110.02   Sale of alcoholic beverages; proximity to schools, churches and
hospitals
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  BEER; CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   The sale of beer shall be permitted during the hours set by the
general laws of the state at the following locations by retailers selling beer
for consumption on premises:
      (1)   East Merchant Street, south side of Barclay, an establishment
presently operated by Rose Vaughn called Happy’s Place;
      (2)   105 Café, premises operated by Mr. and Mrs. Ron Massey, 107 West
105, beer and wine licenses to be served with food only; and
      (3)   Randy’s, located on Highway 105 one mile East of Highway 326.
   (B)   The sale on premises for consumption where sold is hereby prohibited
in the city, save and except those locations designated herein.
   (C)   The sale of beer and wine by retailers, manufacturers and distributors
not for consumption on premises where sold shall not be effected by this
section and the sale shall be made in accordance with the general laws of the
state.
   (D)   It is especially provided that this section is not an attempt to
create zones under a comprehensive zoning plan as authorized by Tex. Alcoholic
Beverage Code Ch. 105, but to designate certain areas where beer for
consumption on the premises may be sold in accordance with the authority
granted by Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code § 109.32.
   (E)   Hereafter, no licenses for the sale of beer for consumption on
premises where sold shall be issued or approved, save and except for the
locations above designated, or upon amendment of this section by the City
Council on application and review based upon the individual applying and the
individual location.
   (F)   Any license issued herein is strictly personal and not for the
location, but to the operation of the premises.
(Ord. passed 7-12-1978; Ord. passed 7-20-1987)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; PROXIMITY TO SCHOOLS, CHURCHES AND
HOSPITALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale or possess for
the purpose of sale any alcoholic beverages where the establishment or place of
business of any dealer is within 300 feet of a church, public school or public
hospital, the measurement to be along the property line of the street fronts
and from front door to front door and a direct line across intersections where
they occur.
(Ord. passed 11- -1979)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
110.02 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $200 per day for each day of
violation hereof.
(Ord. passed 11- -1979)
CHAPTER 111:  WRECKER SERVICES
Section
   
111.01   Approved system
   
111.02   Privilege, not right
   
111.03   Listing of approved services
   
111.04   Eligibility for placement
   
111.05   Definitions
   
111.06   Criteria
   
111.07   Stopping or parking prohibition
   
111.08   Solicitation prohibited
   
111.09   Rules and regulations generally
   
111.10   Equipment
   
111.11   Permit fees; terms
   
111.12   Non-consent fees; rules
   
111.13   Administration
§ 111.01  APPROVED SYSTEM.
   The city’s approved wrecker service system, hereinafter referred to as the
SLPD non-consent system, has been established as a policy of the City Police
Department as a means of providing a service to the people of the city, and for
the fair and equitable selection of wrecker services whose companies desire to
assist its officers in the service of the motoring public.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 111.02  PRIVILEGE, NOT RIGHT.
   (A)   The SLPD non-consent system, being a policy of the city, is subject to
the governance of that agency; participation by wrecker companies and related
business is considered to be a privilege, rather than a right.
   (B)   The privilege to remain on the non-consent system will be evaluated
upon, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The charging of excessive fees;
      (2)   Illegal operation;
      (3)   Improper handling of entrusted property which is not secured or
lost;
      (4)   Refusing to provide services after responding to a non-consent
call, or failing to respond within the estimated time of arrival (ETA 30
minutes);
      (5)   Willful misconduct at the scene where wrecker services is required;
      (6)   Any apparent use of alcohol or drug by wrecker company personnel
present at the scene of a non-consent or preference call;
      (7)   Refusal to release the vehicle of a person arrested on suspicion of
DWI, without charging a towing fee, when notified by the arresting officer
immediately following the breath test that the subject passed the test. The
officer shall accompany the subject back to his or her vehicle in this event in
a responsible and reasonable time;
      (8)   Failure to provide security for valuable property;
      (9)   Continued flagrant violations of the motor vehicle traffic law
book;
      (10)   Convicted of any felony offense. Indictments will be considered
one by one, depending on their correlation to the wrecker business;
      (11)   Misdemeanors (class B or above) will be considered, depending on
seriousness and correlation to wrecker business; and
      (12)   Any other evidence considered grounds for removal by the City
Police Department.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 111.03  LISTING OF APPROVED SERVICES.
   The City Police Department shall maintain a list of approved participating
wrecker services, which are permitted to operate within the city.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 111.04  ELIGIBILITY FOR PLACEMENT.
   Eligibility for placement on the SLPD non-consent system shall be open to
all approved wrecker companies of the county whose companies and storage
facilities are located therein.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 111.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSENT TOW. Any tow conducted with the permission of, or at the direction
of, the towed vehicles legal or registered owner or the owner’s authorized
representative. Except as set forth in the definition of “non-consent tow”, a
tow will be considered a CONSENT TOW where the owner is able to give consent.
   NON-CONSENT TOW. Any tow conducted without permission of or not at the
direction of the towed vehicles legal or registered owner or the owner’s
authorized representative. Regardless of this definition, city police officers
may control the scene of an accident in the manner they deem appropriate and
order a NON-CONSENT TOW.
   OPERATE. To drive or cause to be driven a tow truck on a public roadway.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating a tow truck on a public roadway of the state.
   OWNER. A person owning, leasing or otherwise using either directly or
indirectly a tow truck on a public roadway of the state.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, organization, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership, association or the other legal entity.
   PUBLIC ROADWAY. A public street, alley, road, right-of-way or other public
way, including paved and unpaved portions of the right-of-way.
   VEHICLE. A motor vehicle subject to registration under Tex. Transportation
Code Ch. 501 or any other device designed to be self propelled or transported
on a public street.
   VEHICLE STORAGE FACILITY. A garage, parking lot or any other type of
facility owned by a person other than a governmental entity for storing or
parking ten or more vehicles a year.
   WRECKER. A motor vehicle, equipped with a mechanical device used to tow,
wench or otherwise move another motor vehicle.
   WRECKER SERVICE. An individual, corporation, partnership or other
association engaged in the business of towing vehicles on a highway for
compensation or with the expectation of compensation for the towing or storage
of the vehicles and includes the owner, operator, employee or agent of a towing
company, but does not include a political subdivision of the state.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 111.06  CRITERIA.
   (A)   To obtain approval to participate in the non-consent system, each
wrecker service must meet the following criterion.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a tow truck in the city
for the purpose of, participation in or execution of any non-consent tow unless
the tow truck is:
      (1)   Licensed and permitted as a tow truck pursuant to state statutes;
and
      (2)   Owned by a towing company registered and permitted by the city.
   (C)   No person, operating a tow truck who performs a non-consent tow, may
tow any motor vehicle to any location other than:
      (1)   A vehicle storage facility in the city which holds a current
license to operate a vehicle storage facility issued by the State Department of
Transportation; or
      (2)   A specific storage location in the city designated by an officer of
the City Police Department or by the owner or operator of the vehicle.
(Ord. passed - -2000)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07  STOPPING OR PARKING PROHIBITION.
   No person shall stop or park any tow truck within 100 feet of the scene or
site of any vehicle accident or collision while any vehicle disabled, damaged
or wrecked in the accident or collision remain at the scene or site unless:
   (A)   It is licensed and permitted as a tow truck pursuant to state statutes
and has been directed by or received the consent of a police officer at the
scene to stop or park the tow truck within the 100 feet; or
   (B)   Is a tow truck which has been summoned to the scene or site of a
vehicle accident by the owner of a vehicle involved in the accident and does
not, in the opinion of any police officer investigating the accident,
constitute a safety hazard to vehicles or persons at the scene or obstruct or
interfere with the activities of the officers investigating the accident or
scene.
(Ord. passed - -2000)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08  SOLICITATION PROHIBITED.
   No person, while on any public roadway or public property, may solicit in
any manner, directly or indirectly, the business or towing, removing,
repairing, storing, wrecking or buying any vehicle which is wrecked or disabled
and on a public road.
(Ord. passed - -2000)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09  RULES AND REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Each company will conform to the following laws, rules, regulations
and ethical procedures.
      (1)   Wrecker operators are required to remove debris from the roadway as
specified by Tex. Occup. Code Ch. 2308.
      (2)   Wrecker companies are required to follow “storage fee/charges” or,
as outlined herein, vehicle storage facilities in the motor carrier rules and
regulations.
      (3)   Wrecker companies are required to follow “facility requirements”,
as outlined herein, vehicle storage in the motor carrier rules an regulations.
      (4)   Liability insurance requirement shall be complied with by all
participating non-consent system wrecker companies, and only those vehicles
covered by proof of financial responsibility shall be utilized.
      (5)   Solicitation will not be allowed by wrecker operators or owners/
operator of vehicles in the following situation at the scene of a traffic
collision:
         (a)   When owner/operator is injured;
         (b)   Upon arrival of an officer, or when otherwise directed by any
other police officer who may be on the scene first; and/or
         (c)   No police officer investigating or present at the scene of any
wrecker, accident or collision on a public street shall, directly or
indirectly, either by word, gesture, sign or otherwise, recommend to any person
the name of any particular person engaged in the wrecker services of repair
business; nor shall any police officer influence or attempt to influence, in
any manner, the decision of any person in choosing or selecting a wrecker or
repair service.
   (B)   No person may officially act on his or her company’s behalf at an
incident/accident scene, unless he or she has an available wrecker already on
the scene.
   (C)   Wrecker must operate in conformity with all state laws.
   (D)   Normally, wrecker’s vehicles in violation will not be allowed to pick
up.
      (1)   Minor violations, when first detected, will not preclude a wrecker
operator from picking up.
      (2)   Minor violations which have been brought to the attention of the
owner/operator and the owner/operator has not complied with a reasonable amount
of time the wrecker will not be allowed to pick up.
      (3)   Wreckers violating moving traffic laws en route to a scene will not
be allowed to pick up.
   (E)   Wreckers designated to pick up a vehicle will be responsible to secure
any additional assistance to remove vehicle safely from the scene.
(Ord. passed - -2000)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.10  EQUIPMENT.
   Wreckers must have the following equipment on board at all times, as well as
all equipment required by the state’s tow truck rules:
   (A)   A shovel;
   (B)   A broom;
   (C)   A fire extinguisher (one quart or larger);
   (D)   Flares, fuses or electric lanterns;
   (E)   A pry bar;
   (F)   Safety chains;
   (G)   Sand or other absorbent material;
   (H)   Empty box or bucket;
   (I)   Rope or wire; and
   (J)   Spotlight or flashlight.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 111.11  PERMIT FEES; TERMS.
   (A)   The permit fee to operate a towing company under the terms and
conditions of this chapter shall be payable as follows: at the time of the
original or renewal application for a towing company permit, the applicant
shall pay a fee of $100 as a non-refundable application fee. If the application
is approved by the Chief of Police, the applicant will be issued a permit to
operate a towing company in the city for one year.
   (B)   A permit issued pursuant to this section shall be valid for one year
from the date issued, and renewed or an annual basis, along with proof of any
and all insurance required by state.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 111.12  NON-CONSENT FEES; RULES.
   (A)   The maximum fees which may be charged by a towing company which
performs non-consent tows pursuant to this chapter are as follows:
      (1)   All size vehicles up to and including one ton-trucks: $85;
      (2)   All vehicles involved in a traffic accident: $150;
      (3)   Dolly or roll back tow, applies only if required or requested by
owner or operator: $25;
      (4)   A daily storage fee of not more than that allowed by state law;
      (5)   Extraordinary situations may occur which require additional
vehicles or equipment for which fair, reasonable and equitable charges may be
made; and
      (6)   Non-consent “drop” fee to release a vehicle to the registered owner
in which a call has been placed to a wrecker company: $45. The wrecker company
will then be put next on the rotation.
   (B)   When any standard wrecker is called for wrecker service, and is for
any reason beyond the wrecker driver’s control, delayed from performing the
required pickup for any period of time in excess of 30 minutes, the driver may
charge an hourly fee. The fee shall be in addition to the basic fees set forth
herein and shall not exceed a rate of $25 per one-half hour for 10,000 pounds
or less, or $35 per half-hour for 10,001 pounds or more.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 111.13  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The City Police Department non-consent wrecker system, as it will be
administered, is as follows.
      (1)   In the event that owners/operators of disabled vehicles, or that
arrested owners/operators of vehicles having need for towing service, his or
her preference will take precedence over non-consent service if preference
wrecker can respond in estimated time of arrival (ETA of 30 minutes).
      (2)   Preference service can only be made by owner/operator of vehicle to
be picked up. Statement or calls from wrecker owners/operators will not be
accepted for preference services.
      (3)   In the event that owners/operators of disabled vehicle, or that
arrested owners/operators of vehicles have need for towing service, but have no
preference, refuse to specify a preference, are unable to specify a preference
of wrecker service, or in any event where owners/operators are unavailable to
specify wrecker service to officers to the City Police Department shall,
through the county, request response by non-consent wrecker companies operating
within the city.
   (B)   Failure to comply to any of the above guidelines, resulting in three
written warnings, will result in wrecker service being removed from wrecker
rotation list.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
CHAPTER 112:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose and intent
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Classifications of sexually oriented businesses
   
112.04   License required
   
112.05   Issuance of license
   
112.06   License fees for sexually oriented businesses
   
112.07   Inspection
   
112.08   Expiration of license
   
112.09   Suspension
   
112.10   Revocation
   
112.11   Appeal
   
112.12   Transfer of license
   
112.13   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
112.14   Exemptions from locational restrictions
   
112.15   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
112.16   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
112.17   Additional regulations for adult theaters and adult motion picture
theaters
   
112.18   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
112.19   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or
videos
   
112.20   Display of sexually explicit material to minors
   
112.21   Time of effect
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare
of the citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations
to prevent the concentration of sexually oriented businesses within the city.
The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing
a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market.
   (B)   It is the intent of the City Council that the locational regulations
of §
112.14 are promulgated pursuant to Tex. Local Gov’t Code Ch. 243.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted wherein coin-
operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that as one
of its principal business purposes offers for sale or rental for any form of
consideration any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations that depict or describe “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use in
connection with “specified sexual activities”.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity, including
topless dancers, nude dancers or strippers, male or female;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities”; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any from of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by the depiction or description off “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas”; and has a sign visible from the public right-
of way which advertises the availability of this type of photographic
reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are shown that are characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of “specified
anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities”.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A building used as a day nursery, children’s boarding
home, child placement agency, religious or charitable encampment for children
or any other place for the care or custody of children under 16 years of age.
   CHURCH. A building in which persons regularly assemble for worship, intended
primarily for purposes connected with faith, or for propagating a particular
form of belief.
   CITY MANAGER and/or DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The City of Sour Lake’s City
Manager and/or Director of Public Works or his or her designated agent.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person who, or business association that furnishes, offers
to furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its business purposes,
for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following;
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or semi-nudity or displays “specified anatomical areas” is provided to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals or female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress that fails to opaquely cover a human buttock,
anus, male genitals, female genitals or areola of the female breast.
   OPERATES or CAUSES TO BE OPERATED. To cause to function or to put or keep in
operation. A person may be found to be OPERATING OR CAUSING TO BE OPERATING a
sexually oriented business whether or not that person is an owner, part owner
or licensee of the business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. A single family, duplex, townhouse, multiple family or
mobile home district or area so designated by the uses.
   RESIDENTIAL USE. Property used for single family, duplex, multiple family,
mobile home park, mobile home subdivision or campground purposes.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private learning center, elementary school, secondary
school, junior college, community college, college, university or other center
for post-secondary education.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and areolae of the female breasts, as well as portions
of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals in a state of sexual arousal.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor area occupied by the business by more than 20%, as the floor area existed
on the date of the enactment of this chapter.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities that constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
that transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.03  CLASSIFICATIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.04  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she operates a sexually oriented
business without a valid license issued by the city for the particular type of
business.
   (B)   (1)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by
the City Manager and/or Director of Public Works. The application form shall be
sworn to and shall:
         (a)   Include the name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   State whether the applicant meets each of the requirements set
forth in this section and §
112.05;
         (c)   Include the name and address of each person required to sign the
application pursuant to this section and §
112.05 and the name, address and type of entity (if applicable) of each person
or entity owned or controlled by the person that owns or controls and interest
in the business to be licensed; and
         (d)   Other matters, consistent with this chapter, as may be specified
in the application form.
      (2)   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. Applicants who must comply with §
112.19 shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of §
112.19.
   (C)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law by the City Manager and/or Director of Public Works.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he or she must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under §
112.05 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.05  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Manager and/or Director of Public Works shall approve the
issuance of a license to an applicant within 30 days after receipt of an
application unless the City Manager and/or Director of Public Works finds one
or more of the following to be true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse if overdue in payment to the
city of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon the
applicant or the applicant’s spouse in relation to a sexually oriented
business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted of a
violation of a provision of this chapter other than the offense of operating a
sexually oriented business without a license, within two years immediately
preceding the application. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall
have no effect;
      (5)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
      (6)   An applicant has been employed in a sexually oriented business in a
managerial capacity within the preceding 12 months and has demonstrated an
inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented business premises in a
peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law enforcement
officers;
      (7)   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with §§
112.07 and
112.12 through
112.20;
      (8)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business are not
in compliance with all applicable city laws, regulations and city counsel
orders; and
      (9)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted of a
crime:
         (a)   Involving:
            1.   Any of the following offenses as described in Tex. Penal Code
Ch. 43:
               a.   Prostitution;
               b.   Promotion of prostitution;
               c.   Aggravated promotion of prostitution;
               d.   Compelling prostitution;
               e.   Obscenity;
               f.   Sale, distribution, display of harmful material to a minor;
               g.   Sexual performance by a child; or
               h.   Possession of child pornography.
            2.   Any of the following offenses as described in Tex. Penal Code
Ch. 21:
               a.   Public lewdness;
               b.   Indecent exposure; or
               c.   Indecency with a child.
            3.   Sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault as described in
Tex. Penal Code Ch. 22;
            4.   Incest, solicitation of a child or harboring a runaway child
as described in Tex. Penal Code Ch. 25; or
            5.   Criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses.
         (b)   For which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
of the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
   (B)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant or applicant’s spouse.
   (C)   (1)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the address of
the sexually oriented business.
      (2)   The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business.
      (3)   The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that is may be easily read at any
time.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.06  LICENSE FEES FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business license shall be $500.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.07  INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department of the city and the city’s Department of Public Works to inspect the
premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his or her agent
or employee commits an offense if he or she refuses to permit a lawful
inspection of the premises by a representative of the Police Department at any
time it is occupied or open for business.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
that are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.08  EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
112.04. Application for renewal should be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.09  SUSPENSION.
   The City Manager and/or Director of Public Works shall suspend a license for
a period not to exceed 30 days if he or she determines that a licenses or an
agent or employee of a licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with §§
112.07 and
112.12 through
112.20;
   (B)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the sexually
oriented business premises;
   (C)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
   (D)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises; or
   (E)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.10  REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Manager and/or Director of Public Works shall revoke a
license if a cause of suspension in §
112.09 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The City Manager and/or Director of Public Works shall revoke a
license if he or she determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the City Manager and/or Director of Public Works during the
application process;
      (2)   A licensee, an agent or an employee has knowingly allowed
possession, use or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee, an agent or an employee has knowingly allowed
prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee, an agent or an employee knowingly operated the sexually
oriented business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was
suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
112.05(A)(9)(a) for which the time period required in §
112.05(A)(9)(b) has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed and offense, occurring in or on the licensed premises, of a
crime listed in §
112.05(A)(9)(a), for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
persons were agents or employees of the sexually oriented business and the time
the offenses were committed;
      (7)   A licensee or agent or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of
sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or sexual contact to
occur in or on the licenses premises. The term SEXUAL CONTACT shall have the
same meaning as it is defined in Tex. Penal Code § 21.01; or
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for any ad valorem
taxes, sales or other taxes related to the sexually oriented business.
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
   (D)   Division (B)(7) above does not apply to adult motels as a ground for
revoking the license unless the licensee, agent or employee knowingly allowed
the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or sexual
contact to occur in a public place or within public view.
   (E)   When the City Manager and/or Director of Public Works revokes a
license, the revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not
be issued a sexually oriented business license for one year from the date
revocation became effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the City Manager
and/or Director of Public Works finds that the basis for the revocation has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective. If the
license was revoked under division (B)(5) above, an applicant may not be
granted another license until the appropriate number of years required under §
112.05(A)(9)(b) has elapsed.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.11  APPEAL.
   (A)   If the City Manager and/or Director of Public Works denies the
issuance of a license, or suspends or revokes a license, the City Manager and/
or Director of Public Works shall send to the applicant, or licensee, by
certified mail, return receipt requested, written notice of the action and the
right to an appeal.
   (B)   Upon receipt of written notice of the denial, suspension or
revocation, the licensee whose application for a license has been denied or
whose license has been suspended or revoked shall have the right to appeal to
the State District Court.
   (C)   An appeal to the state district court must be filed within 30 days
after the receipt of notice of the decision of the City Manager and/or Director
of Public Works. The licensee shall bear the burden of proof in court.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.12  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13  LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of:
      (1)   A church;
      (2)   A school;
      (3)   A child care facility;
      (4)   A boundary of a residential district;
      (5)   A public park;
      (6)   The property line of a lot devoted to residential use; or
      (7)   Any building or structure in which alcoholic beverages are offered
for sale.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement or transfer or ownership or
control of a sexually oriented business located within 1,000 feet of another
sexually oriented business.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
businesses in the same building, structure or portion thereof, or the increase
of floor area of any sexually oriented business.
   (D)   For the purpose of division (A) above, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted to the nearest property line of
the premises of a church, school, child care facility or building or structure
in which alcoholic beverages are offered for sale, or to the nearest boundary
of an affected public park, residential district or residential lot.
   (E)   For the purposes of division (B) above, the distance between any two
sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall of
the structure in which each business is located.
   (F)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the effective
date of this chapter that is in violation of divisions (A), (B) or (C) above
shall be deemed a non-conforming use. The non- conforming use will be permitted
to continue for a period not to exceed 12 months, unless sooner terminated for
any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. The
non- conforming use shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered;
except that, the use may be changes to a conforming use. If two or more
sexually oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet of one another and otherwise
in a permissible location, the sexually oriented business which was first
established and continually operating at a particular location is the
conforming use and the later-established business(es) is non-conforming.
   (G)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operated as a conforming use is
not rendered a non- conforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license, or a church school, child
care facility, public park, residential district or residential lot, or any
building or structure in which alcoholic beverages are offered for sale, within
1,000 feet of the sexually oriented business. This provision applies only to
the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply when an application for a
license is submitted after a license has expired or has been revoked.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.14  EXEMPTIONS FROM LOCATIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   If the City Manager and/or Director of Public Works denies the
issuance of a license to an applicant because the location of the sexually
oriented business establishment is in violation of any section of this chapter,
then the applicant may, not later than ten calendar days after receiving notice
of the denial, file with the Mayor of the city a written request for an
exemption from the locational restrictions of this chapter.
   (B)   If the written request is filed with the Mayor within the ten-day
limit, the City Counsel shall consider the request. The Mayor shall set a date
for a public hearing within 60 days from the date the written request is
received.
   (C)   A hearing by the City Counsel may proceed if a quorum of the City
Counsel is present. The City Counsel shall hear and consider evidence offered
by any interest person. The formal rules of evidence do not apply.
   (D)   The City Counsel may, in its discretion, grant an exemption from the
locational restrictions of this chapter if it makes the following findings:
      (1)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business will not
have a detrimental effect on nearby properties or be contrary to the public
safety or welfare;
      (2)   The granting of the exemption will not violate the spirit and
intent of this chapter;
      (3)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business will not
downgrade the property values or quality of life in the adjacent areas or
encourage the development of urban or rural blight;
      (4)   The location of an additional sexually oriented business in the
area will not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation nor will
it interfere with any efforts of urban renewal or restoration; and
      (5)   All other applicable provisions of this chapter will be observed.
   (E)   The City Counsel shall grant or deny the exemption by a majority vote.
Failure to reach a majority vote shall result in denial of the exemption.
Disputes of fact shall be decided on the basis of a preponderance of the
evidence. The decision of the City Counsel is final.
   (F)   If the City Counsel grants the exemption, the exemption is valid for
one year from the date of the City Counsel’s action. Upon the expiration of an
exemption, the sexually oriented business is in violation of the locational
restrictions of this chapter until the applicant applies for and receives
another exemption.
   (G)   If the City Counsel denies the exemption, the applicant may not
reapply for an exemption until at least 12 months have elapsed since the date
of the City Counsel’s action.
   (H)   The grant of an exemption does not exempt the applicant from any other
provisions of this chapter other than the locational restrictions.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.15  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if he or she
appears in a state of nudity or semi-nudity in or on the premises of a nude
model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if the
person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or persons of
the opposite sex.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if he or she appears in a state of nudity
or semi-nudity or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity or
semi-nudity in an area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from
the public right-or-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises; except that, a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT THEATERS AND ADULT MOTION PICTURE
THEATERS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she knowingly allows a person
under the age of 18 years to appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity in or
on the premises of an adult theater or adult motion picture theater.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if he or she
knowingly appears in a state of nudity or semi-nudity in or on the premises of
an adult theater or adult motion picture theater.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under divisions (B) and (C) above if
the person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or persons
of the opposite sex.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.18  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel, as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does not have a
sexually oriented business license, he or she rents or subrents a sleeping room
to a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or she
rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUBRENT mean the
act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19  REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less that 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application of a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations, the location
of all overhead lighting fixtures, and switches, which lights are controlled by
which switches and designating any portion of the premises in which patrons
will not be permitted. Only agents or employees shall have access to light
switches. A manager’s station may not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The
diagram shall also designate the place at which the permit will be
conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the
nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be required;
however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some designated
street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or with marked
dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The
Director of Public Works may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal
applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted
and certifies that the configuration for the premises has not been altered
since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the Director of Public Works.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises shall be configured in a manner that there is an unobstructed view of
each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations, the view required in this
division (A)(5) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it also shall
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the view area specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times that
any patron is present on the premises and to ensure that no patron is permitted
access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in
which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to
division (A)(1) above.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one footcandle as measured at the
floor level.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it also shall
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present on the premises.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(8) above
commits an offense if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.20  DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL TO MINORS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense, if, in a business establishment open to
persons under the age of 17 years, he or she displays a book, pamphlet,
newspaper, magazine, film or video cystitis, the cover of which depicts, in a
manner calculated to arouse sexual lust or passion for commercial gain or to
exploit sexual lust or perversion for commercial gain, any of the following:
      (1)   Human sexual intercourse, masturbation or sodomy;
      (2)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts;
      (3)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, buttocks
or that portion of the female breast below the top of the areola; or
      (4)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, whether covered
or uncovered;
   (B)   In this section, DISPLAY means to locate an item in a manner that,
without obtaining assistance from an agent or employee of the business
establishment:
      (1)   It is available to the general public for handling and inspection;
or
      (2)   The cover, outside packing on the item or contents of the items is
visible to members to the general public.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21  TIME OF EFFECT.
   This chapter takes effect at 12:01 a.m. on the day following its adoption.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided by division (B) below, any person violating §
112.13, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $3,000 for each
offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs.
      (2)   If the sexually oriented business involved is a nude model studio
or sexual encounter center, then violation of §§
112.04(A) or
112.13 is punishable as a class A misdemeanor.
      (3)   Except as provided by division (B) below, any person violating a
provision of this chapter other than §
112.13, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $3,000 for each
offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs.
      (4)   It is a defense to prosecution under §§
112.04(A),
112.13 or
112.16(D) that a person appearing in a state of nudity or semi-nudity did so in
a modeling class operated:
         (a)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state, a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (c)   In a structure:
            1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure
and no other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available
for viewing;
            2.   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
            3.   Where no more that one nude or semi-nude model is on the
premises at any one time.
      (5)   It is a defense to prosecution under §§
112.04(A) or
112.13 that each item of descriptive, printed film or video material offered
for sale or rental, taken as a whole, contains serious literary artistic
political or scientific value.
   (B)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business without a valid license or in violation of §
112.13 is subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal
violations.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1997)
CHAPTER 113:  PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License requirement
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
   
113.09   City policy on soliciting
   
113.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
113.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS.  Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT.  Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.  Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR.  Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.  A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 113.02  LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk.  This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation.  The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare.  In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 113.05  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06.  Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing.  Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 113.06  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 113.07  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council.  The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.  The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 113.08  EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein.  In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter.  The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or
“Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license.  The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he is
engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09  CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 113.10  NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least 1/3-inch in height. For the purpose of
uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to persons
requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 113.11  DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
113.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.12  PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114:  OIL AND GAS WELLS; DRILLING
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Prohibited drilling and re-entry
   
114.03   Permits authorized and issued; existing permits
   
114.04   Covenants and agreements
   
114.05   Notice of non-compliance
   
114.06   Permits in writing; separate applications
   
114.07   Permit refusal
   
114.08   Termination and inoperation
   
114.09   Best accepted practices; accepted conduct
   
114.10   Effective date
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DRILL SITE. All of the land area used during the drilling or other
related operations, specifically including, but not limited to, rig locations,
portable or permanent structures, steel slushpits, storage or pipe or other
material and the parking or maneuvering of vehicles, except roadways used for
ingress or egress to the drill site.
      DRILLING UNIT. An area where one or more permits have already been
granted and the unit is existing and was created by prior oil and gas
ordinances of the city and for which the development or drilling on the
DRILLING UNIT (consisting of one contiguous body of land composed of one or
more tracts of land and where no more than one permit has been issued on any
existing drilling unit for each two and one-half acres of the surface thereof)
has not been abandoned by the permittee or terminated permit by the city.
      MINERAL OWNER. The owner of the mineral interest in, on or under a
described tract of land or lessee of the minerals in, on or under a described
tract of land.
      PERMITTEE. The person to whom is issued a permit or certificate for the
drilling, operating and producing of a well under this chapter and his or her
heirs, legal representatives, successors and assigns.
      PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, association, partnership,
limited partnership, receiver, trustee, guardian, executor, administrator,
political subdivision and a fiduciary or representative of any kind whether
acting for himself, herself or itself or in any representative capacity.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The real property surface record owner(s) having legal or
equitable title to the surface of the drill site.
      WELL. Any hole or holes, bore or bores, to any sand, horizon, formation,
strata or depth for the purposes of producing any oil, gas, liquid hydrocarbon,
brine water, sulfur water or for use as an injection well for secondary
recovery, or any of them.
   (B)   All technical or oil and gas industry words or phrases used herein and
not specifically defined shall have that meaning customarily attributable
thereto by prudent operators in the oil and gas industry.
(Ord. passed 6-20-1989)
§ 114.02  PROHIBITED DRILLING AND RE-ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to drill any well or to
re-enter any well which has previously been abandoned for any reason or to
install any water and/or gas re-pressurizing or injection facility within the
corporate limits of the city without a permit having first been issued by the
authority of the City Council in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03  PERMITS AUTHORIZED AND ISSUED; EXISTING PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall authorize the drilling of more than one well or more
than one water and/or gas re-pressurizing or injection facility.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for the drilling or re-drilling of any well
with a wellbore to be located within 300 feet of any residential, commercial or
public building or structure (except as otherwise provided herein) without the
prior written consent of the property owner or governing body on form approved
by the city.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued for the drilling of a well with a wellbore
to be located within 500 feet of the property line of any parochial or public
schools, hospitals, convalescent homes, orphanages or nursing homes located
within the city limits. without the prior written consent of the property owner
or governing body on form approved by the city. The property owner or party
granting the waiver shall hold the city harmless from any and all liability
arising out of the granting of the waiver.
   (D)   As to all wells and water and/or re-pressurizing or injection
facilities, and other facilities as may be covered by this chapter existing
which have not been abandoned nor previously permitted within the corporate
limits of the city on the effective date of this chapter or which are in
existence and have not been abandoned at the time the land, upon which the same
are situated is annexed to the city, no additional permit or filing fee shall
be required, unless thereafter abandoned and thereafter re-entered as herein
provided. It is hereby expressly provided that as to all wells so drilled and
completed prior to the effective date of this chapter, this chapter shall apply
as to all provisions hereof concerning actions to be taken subsequent to the
effective date of this chapter. The operator and/or permittee of any well
drilled prior to the effective date of this chapter shall within 30 days from
the effective date of this chapter, file unless presently on file, the
following with the City Manager:
      (1)   A map or plat of the drill site as required herein; and
      (2)   Copies of public liability and property damage policies as required
herein.
   (E)   (1)   If the existing drilling unit held by permittee consists of a
mineral interest of which permittee does not own or hold oil and gas leases or
drilling contracts, then the drilling unit as established, and any permit
existing within the drilling unit shall continue in full force and effect, so
long as the permittee, its successors and assigns, shall deliver and agree to
deliver to the credit of each owner whose mineral interest in the land shall
not be under any oil and gas lease, free of costs, in the pipeline to which the
well may be connected, that proportionate part of one-fifth or more of all oil
produced and saved from the well arrived at by dividing the square feet of an
unleased mineral interest so owned by the total square feet contained in the
drilling unit, and likewise a like proportion of the proceeds of gas and
casinghead gas produced from the well and used or sold off the premises.
      (2)   As to an existing drilling unit, any applicant for a permit to
drill on a drill site within an existing drilling unit, not abandoned, and made
by one or more applicants, which drill site shall consist of all or a part of
the same surface area, the application shall be granted, if otherwise
sufficient herein, to the applicant owning or holding the greater area of land
in the drilling unit in fee, or by lease or other contract with the property
owner, permitting the drilling thereon for oil or gas; but should a permit be
issued to a permittee who does not own or hold leases or other valid drilling
contracts in writing from owners of all land within the unit, any owner of
unleased land in the drilling unit and any person, or corporation other than
permittee, holding oil and gas leases on land in the drilling unit shall have
the right to share in the ownership and benefits of the oil or gas well in the
proportion that the area of his or her or its land or lease bears to the total
area of the drilling unit; provided that, within ten days from the date of the
issuance of the permit, he, she or it shall file with the City Manager his, her
or its election in writing to pay to the permittee, or his, her or its assigns,
a like proportion of the total cost and expense of drilling and operating the
well, and shall within that time make and file with the City Manager a
certified check or a bond with an authorized surety company as surety, an
amount representing that portion of the estimated maximum cost of the well that
the area of the land owned or held under lease by the principal bears to the
whole area of the drilling unit, conditioned that the principal in the bond
will pay to the permittee and his or her assigns the proportions of the cost of
drilling and operating the well, from time to time, as required in the drilling
and operating the well, from time to time, as required in the drilling and
operating thereof, any bond or check to be approved by the Mayor and held by
the City Secretary for the benefit of all persons interested.
      (3)   Any application filed for a permit within an existing drilling unit
where one or more drilling permits have been issued, notice of the hearing held
for issuance of the permit shall be served upon each permittee having an
outstanding or issued permit within the drilling unit by certified mail, return
receipt requested, verified and mailed out by the city, at the applicant’s
expense, at least seven business days prior to the hearing date of the
application, with return as to service executed or made on or before the day of
the hearing. If, upon hearing of the application, the previous permits do not
hold valid oil and gas leases or drilling contracts upon the property of
applicant, and that they have refused and still refuse to share in the benefits
occurring to them from the oil and gas production from the drilling unit
including the property in proportion of the ownership of the present applicant,
then the application, if it meets the requirements of this chapter in all other
respects, shall be granted; otherwise, it shall be refused.
(Ord. passed 6-20-1989; Ord. passed 9-19-1989; Ord. passed 3-20-1990)
§ 114.04  COVENANTS AND AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Any permit granted will be conditioned upon the following covenants
and agreements to be made by the applicant.
      (1)   The permittee shall erect a dike or fire wall around all permanent
oil tanks or battery of tanks with a capacity of at least one and one-half
times that of the tank or battery of tanks.
      (2)   Any tanks or battery of tanks erected within the city limits shall
be of steel construction (except fiberglass, for water use only), and shall be
located at least 300 feet from any residence, commercial or public building or
structure or the property line of any public or parochial school, hospital,
convalescent home, orphanage or nursing home without the prior written consent
of property owner or governing body on form approved by the city and, in so
doing, the property owner or governing body agrees to hold the city harmless
from any and all liability arising out of granting the written consent.
      (3)   The permittee shall drill the well at the exact location shown by
the permittee in his or her application and plat, and no other location.
      (4)   The permittee shall not drill any well within any street of the
city and will not block, encumber or close up any street, alley or passageway
now open and in use in the city limits for any operations hereunder, except by
special permission from the City Council, and then only temporarily.
      (5)   The permittee shall, within 30 days after completion of the well,
restore the streets, sidewalks and any other public places of the city to their
former condition and clear the drilling unit of all litter, machinery,
buildings, oil and other substances erected, used or allowed in the drilling
operations, except derrick, and production equipment in actual use, or
permanent lease buildings.
      (6)   The permittee shall, within 90 days after the completion of the
well, fill and level off the slushpits, mud pits and any other excavations made
on the drilling unit, except fire walls.
      (7)   All wells, when completed, shall be cleaned into a metal tank and
not less than 150 feet from any fire hazard.
      (8)   Each flowing well shall be equipped with two pressure gauges, one
on the tubing and one on the casing head, and shall be equipped with a bull
plug on one side and gate valve on the other side of the bradenhead. The gauges
shall be open at all times to inspection by any city official.
   (B)   Any permit granted hereunder shall be conditioned upon the performance
by the permittee of the following covenants and conditions.
      (1)   The permittee shall comply with all municipal, federal and state
guidelines as to not contaminate the water supply, present or prospective, or
to injure surface vegetation.
      (2)   All phases of the setting of the casing and of testing the casing
must conform to Railroad Commission regulations or as amended. Notice of the
setting of casing and of the testing of the casing shall be given to the City
Manager by the permittee at least four hours before the operations are begun.
   (C)   Any and all permits issued hereunder shall be subject to the following
covenants and conditions.
      (1)   Motive power for all operations after completion of drilling
operations shall be electricity.
      (2)   The permittee shall keep all premises in a clean and sanitary
condition.
      (3)   The permittee, its agents or contractors, at all times during the
drilling for and production of oil and/or gas within the city limits, shall
carry a policy or policies of standard comprehensive public liability insurance
including contractual liability coverage for accidental death, bodily injury
and property damage naming both the permittee and the city as insureds with an
insurance company authorized to do business in the state and appearing on the
list of authorized insurance companies prepared by the State Board of
Insurance. The policy or policies in the aggregate shall provide for minimum
coverage of at least $1,000,000. Permittee shall file a certificate of
insurance with the City Manager.
      (4)   The permittee shall furnish good and sufficient bond, either
personal surety or pledge of assets, in the principal sum of $25,000 to be
approved by the City Council, for the benefit of the city and all persons,
firms and corporations concerned, conditioned that if the permit be granted and
if drilling operations be commenced thereunder, the applicant and his or her
agents, employees and/or assigns will comply with the terms and conditions of
this chapter in the drilling of and operation of the well; will pay to any
owners of land in any existing drilling unit on which applicant shall not hold
oil and gas leases or contracts, the oil and gas royalties as herein provided;
will promptly pay any fines assessed against him, her or it for the breach of
any provisions of this chapter and will pay any and all damages suffered by any
person or corporation, either to person or property, caused by or originating
from the operations connected with the well, and will hold the city harmless
from any and all liability growing out of the granting of the permit. Only one
bond will be required of any permittee regardless of the number of permits
unless additional bond or bonds are expressly ordered by the City Council.
      (5)   The well site, drill site, tank battery site, pump station site or
compressor site, whether located on the well site or at, a separate location
within the city, shall be enclosed and kept fenced by a six-foot high chain
link fence, with a three-strand barbed wire safety enclosure at its top, with
all gates thereto to be kept locked when the permittee or his or her employees
are not within the enclosure.
(Ord. passed 6-20-1989; Ord. passed 3-20-1990)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05  NOTICE OF NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In the event of a failure of the permittee to comply with any
provision of this chapter, the City Manager shall issue, in writing, a notice
to the permittee of the nature of the non-compliance and stating a reasonable
time not to exceed ten working days necessary to gain compliance. After a lapse
of the reasonable time, if compliance has not been made, the Council may
suspend the permit for a period of time or cancel the permit; however, by
either act of Council, the fines imposed by §
114.99 shall not be waived.
   (B)   Any notice provided herein shall be by certified mail return receipt
requested unless otherwise provided herein by other service.
(Ord. passed 6-20-1989)
§ 114.06  PERMITS IN WRITING; SEPARATE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   That every application for a permit to drill a well or to install a
water and/or gas re-pressurizing or injection facility shall be in writing,
signed by the applicant or some person duly authorized to sign on his or her
behalf; and it shall be filed with the City Manager. A separate application
shall be required for each well and each water and/or gas re-pressurizing or
injection facility.
   (B)   The City Manager shall not accept the application for filing unless
the same be accompanied with the following:
      (1)   A deposit of $500 to be applied as a permit fee, to cover cost of
oil well supervision and fire prevention;
      (2)   A map or plat of the drill site showing the ownership of the land
embraced therein, the exact location of the proposed well showing all
buildings, property line of any parochial or public schools, hospitals,
convalescent homes, orphanages or nursing homes, on the drill site, and showing
all wells on adjoining drill sites and the distance thereto from the proposed
location;
      (3)   Copy of approved Railroad Commission form W-1, permit to drill and
any and all forms filed with the Railroad Commission regarding the well; and
      (4)   Each permittee will comply with all municipal, state and federal
fire and safety guidelines prior to any drilling operations or other related
operations for the drilling of any well.
(Ord. passed 6-20-1989)
§ 114.07  PERMIT REFUSAL.
   The City Council shall have the power, and reserve the authority, to refuse
any application for a permit where, by reason of the location of the proposed
well and the character and value of the permanent improvements already erected
on the tract in question, or adjacent thereto, and the use to which land and
surroundings are adapted for civic purposes, or for sanitary reasons, the
drilling of an oil or gas well would be a serious disadvantage to either the
health, safety, morals or welfare of the city and its inhabitants as a whole.
When a permit shall be refused for any of these reasons, but not otherwise, the
deposit of cash made with the application shall be returned to the applicant.
(Ord. passed 6-20-1989)
§ 114.08  TERMINATION AND INOPERATION.
   When a permit shall have been issued, or extended as hereinafter provided,
the same shall terminate and become inoperative without any action on the part
of the City Council, unless within 60 days from the date issued or date the
extension is granted, actual drilling of the well shall have commenced or an
extension has been allowed by the additional deposit of a $500 permit fee
tendered to the city prior to the expiration of the 60 days from date of
extension or date of issue, without any changes by the permittee in the
original permit filed. The cessation for a like period of drilling or reworking
operations, or the cessation for a like period of production of oil or gas from
the well after production shall have commenced without reworking operations
being conducted thereon, shall operate to terminate and cancel the permit and
the well shall be considered as abandoned for all purposes of this chapter, and
it shall be unlawful thereafter to further operate or drill the well without
the issuance of another permit. No additional permit shall be required in order
to complete any well for which a permit has been issued hereunder and has not
been canceled or terminated or the well abandoned.
(Ord. passed 6-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09  BEST ACCEPTED PRACTICES; ACCEPTED CONDUCT.
   (A)   All oil and gas, drilling, and production operations shall be
conducted in a manner as to minimize, so far as practical, dust, noise,
vibration or noxious odors and shall be in accordance with the best accepted
practices incident to drilling for the production of oil, gas and other
hydrocarbon substances in compliance with municipal, state and federal
guidelines.
   (B)   All production equipment used shall be so constructed and operated so
that noise, vibration, dust, odor or other harmful or annoying substances or
effect will be minimized by the operations carried on at any drill site or from
anything incident thereto, to the injury or annoyance of persons living in the
vicinity; nor shall the site or structures thereon be permitted to become
dilapidated, unsightly or unsafe. Proven technological improvements in methods
of production shall be adopted as they, from time to time, become available, if
capable of reducing factors of nuisance or annoyance. There shall be no venting
of gas into the open air except as in compliance with municipal, state and
federal guidelines.
(Ord. passed 6-20-1989)
§ 114.10  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be finally passed on the date of its second reading
following its introduction at its first reading and shall take effect and be in
force from and after its publication in the official paper of the city.
(Ord. passed 6-20-1989)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail to
comply with any provision of §
114.07, whether or not the section contains the specific language that the
violation or failure to comply is unlawful and is an offense. Any person who
shall violate the provision of this chapter, the provisions of a permit issued
pursuant hereto, or who shall fail to comply with the terms hereof shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in any sum
not less than $100, nor more than $1,000 and the violation of each separate
provision of this section and of the permit shall be considered a separate
offense and each days violation of each separate provision thereof shall be
considered a separate offense. Failure or refusal to comply with the provision
of this chapter and the covenants and agreements herein provided shall be
grounds for revocation of a permit for any well where the violation occurs.
(Ord. passed 6-20-1989)
CHAPTER 115:  FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Designation of health authority
   
115.02   State regulations adopted
   
115.03   Definitions
   
115.04   Food permits
   
115.05   Review of plans
   
115.06   Food manager certification
   
115.07   Cumulative effect; effective date
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01  DESIGNATION OF HEALTH AUTHORITY.
   The city designates the County Health Department Director as its health
authority for the purpose of ensuring minimum standards of environmental health
and sanitation within the scope of that Department’s function.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1992)
§ 115.02  STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by reference the Texas Department of Health,
Division of Food and Drugs “Tex. Admin. Code §§ 229.161 - 229.178”, and “The
Texas Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act” (Tex. Health Code, Ch. 431) and “Texas
Sanitation and Health Protection Law” (Tex. Health Code Ch. 341).
   (B)   A certified copy of each rule manual above shall be kept on file in
the office of the County Health Department.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1992)
§ 115.03  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All definitions in “Rules on Food Service Sanitation” and “Rules on
Retail Food Store Sanitation” are hereby adopted.
   (B)   In addition, for the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility keeping more than 12 unrelated children
that provides care, training, education, custody or supervision for children
under 15 years of age, who are not related by blood, marriage or adoption to
the owner or operator of the facility, for all or part of the day, whether or
not the facility is operated for profit or charges for the services it offers.
Non-profit facilities will be required to make application for a permit and
meet current requirements, but are exempt from payment of the permit fees.
      FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. All places where food or drink are manufactured,
packaged, produced, processed, transported, stored, sold, commercially prepared
or otherwise hand led, whether offered for sale, given in exchange or given
away for use as food or furnished for human consumption. The term does not
apply to private homes where food is prepared or served for guest and
individual family consumption. The location of commercially packaged single
portion non-potentially hazardous snack items and wrapped candy sold over the
counter is excluded.
      HEALTH DEPARTMENT. Representatives of the County Health Department.
      OWNERSHIP OF BUSINESS. The owner or operator of the business. Each new
business owner or operator shall comply with the current code of the city.
      REGULATORY AUTHORITY. Representatives of the County Health Department.
      SERVICE OF NOTICE. A notice provided for in these rules is properly
served when it is delivered to the holder of the permit or the person in
charge, or when it is sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the holder of the permit or as
otherwise established under the statutes herein.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1992)
§ 115.04  FOOD PERMITS.
   (A)   Requirement. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food
establishment in the city, unless he or she possesses a current and valid
health permit issued by the Health Department.
   (B)   Posting. A valid permit shall be posted in public view in a
conspicuous place at the food establishment for which it is issued.
   (C)   Non-transference (change of ownership). Permits issued under the
provisions of this chapter are not transferable. Upon change of ownership of a
business, the new business owner will be required to meet current standards as
defined in city ordinances and state law before a permit will be issued.
   (D)   Multiple permits. A separate permit shall be required for every type
food establishment, temporary food establishment and child care facility
whether situated in the same building or at a separate location. Lounge
operations located in the same building on the same floor operating under the
same liquor license will not require a separate permit.
   (E)   Suspension of permit. The Health Department may suspend any permit to
operate a food establishment if the operation of the establishment does not
comply with the requirements of this chapter, state laws and rules or the
operation of the food establishment otherwise constitutes an imminent health
hazard. Before a permit is suspended, the holder of the permit shall be
afforded an opportunity for a hearing within ten days of receipt of a written
request for a hearing. Suspension is effective after a ten- day notice period
is given by the Health Department in the event a public hearing is not
requested. When a permit is suspended, food service operations shall
immediately cease.
   (F)   Notification of right to hearing. Whenever a notice of suspension is
given, the holder of the permit or the person in charge shall be notified in
writing that an opportunity for a hearing will be provided. If no written
request for hearing is filed within ten days, the permit is suspended. The
Health Department may end the suspension any time if reasons for suspension no
longer exist.
   (G)   Revocation of permit. The Health Department may, after providing
notice and an opportunity for a hearing, revoke a permit for serious or
repeated violations of any of the requirements of these rules for interference
with the Health Department in the performance of its duties. Prior to
revocation, the Health Department shall notify the holder of the permit or the
person in charge, in writing of the reason for which the permit is subject to
revocation and that the permit shall be revoked at the end of ten days
following service of the notice. Unless a written request for a hearing is
filed with the Health Department by the holder of the permit within the ten-day
period, the revocation of the permit becomes final.
   (H)   Service of notices. A notice provided for in these rules is properly
served when it is delivered to the holder of the permit, license or
certificate, or the person in charge, or when it is sent by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
holder of the permit, license or certificate. A copy of the notice shall be
filed in the records of the regulatory authority or as otherwise established
under the statutes herein.
   (I)   Hearings. The hearings provided for in these rules shall be conducted
by the regulatory authority at a time and place designated by it. Based upon
the recorded evidence of the hearings, the regulatory authority shall make a
final finding, and shall sustain, modify or rescind any notice or order
considered in the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be
furnished to the holder of the permit, license or certificate by the regulatory
authority.
   (J)   Right of appeal. Any permit holder who wishes to dispute the decision
of a hearing may appeal the decision to the Director of the County Health
Department.
   (K)   Application after revocation. Whenever a revocation of a permit has
become final, the holder of the revoked permit may make written application for
a new permit to the Health Department.
   (L)   Permit fees.
      (1)   A health permit fee as established by the Commissioners’ Court in
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county is required annually for
each food establishment. Fees are due and payable on or before February 1 and
are to be paid to the County Health Department, at P.O. Box 820, Kountze, Texas
77625.
      (2)   A health permit fee as established by the Commissioners’ Court in
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county is required of any food
establishment operating less than 14 days. Fees are due and payable as listed
in division (L)(1) above.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1992)
§ 115.05  REVIEW OF PLANS.
   (A)   Submission of plans. Whenever a food establishment is constructed or
extensively, remodeled and whenever an existing structure is converted to use
as a food establishment, property prepared plans and specifications for the
construction, remodeling or conversion shall be submitted to the Health
Department for review and approval before construction, remodeling or
conversion is begun. The plans and specifications shall indicate the proposed
layout, arrangement, mechanical plans and construction materials of work areas,
and the type and model of proposed fixed equipment and facilities. The Health
Department shall approve the plans and specifications if they meet the
requirements of these rules. No food establishment shall be constructed,
extensively remodeled or converted, except in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the Health Department.
   (B)   Pre-operational inspection. The Health Department shall inspect any
food establishment prior to its beginning operation to determine compliance
with approved plans and specifications and with the requirements of these
rules.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1992)
§ 115.06  FOOD MANAGER CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Requirements.
      (1)   All food establishments, except those dealing only in fresh produce
and/or prepackaged non-potentially hazardous food shall have a person employed
in a managerial capacity possessing a current food manager’s certificate issued
by the Health Department. A certified manager or person in charge must be on
duty during all hours of operation of any non-exempt food service establishment
employing six or more employees.
      (2)   Upon written application and presentation of evidence of
satisfactory completion of a food manager’s course, equivalent training or
examination as approved by the Director of Public Health, the Health Department
shall issue a food manager’s certificate valid for three years from the date of
training or evaluation unless sooner revoked. Suspension of revocation of an
establishment’s health permit by the Health Department shall constitute cause
for revocation of that manager’s certification. Whenever the food service
operator holding the certificate terminates employment, is terminated, or is
transferred to another food establishment, the person owning, operating or
managing the food establishment shall be allowed 60 days from the date of
termination or transfer of the certificate holder to comply with this section.
   (B)   Exemptions from certificate requirement. Temporary food establishments
and persons participating as volunteer food handlers performing charitable
activities for periods of 14 days or less may be exempted from the requirement
for a manager’s certificate.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1992)
§ 115.07  CUMULATIVE EFFECT; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be held and construed to be cumulative of all other
ordinances affecting food service establishments in the city, except in those
instances where the provisions of this chapter are in conflict with the
provisions of ordinances heretofore passed, and all ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict with the provisions of the chapter are expressly
repealed. This chapter shall take effect from and after publication of the
descriptive caption of this chapter, stating in summary the purpose of the
chapter and the penalty for violation thereof.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1992)
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   Any corporation, firm, agent or person violating this chapter and, upon
conviction hereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $10, nor more
than $200. Each violation or days of continuing violation shall constitute a
separate offense. If it is shown on trial that the defendant has previously
violated this chapter, the defendant shall be assessed a fine of not less than
$10, nor more than $1,000, for each violation and for each day of a continuing
violation subject to the Court’s jurisdictional limits and subsequent limits.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1992)
CHAPTER 116:  MOBILE SERVICE UNITS
Section
   
116.01   Definition
   
116.02   Prohibitions
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE SERVICE UNITS. Legally defined as being a vehicle, a tank truck or
other mobile device from which flammable liquids used as motor fuels may, as an
act of retail sales, be dispensed in to the fuel tank of a motor vehicle parked
on an off-street parking facility.
(Ord. 714, passed 8-18-1971)
§ 116.02  PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Mobile service units are hereby prohibited from delivering flammable
fuels into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles within the city limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dispense flammable
fuels within the city as outlined in division (A) above.
(Ord. 714, passed 8-18-1971)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99  PENALTY.
   Any person or persons who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed $200.
(Ord. 714, passed 8-18-1971)
CHAPTER 117:  GAME ROOMS AND GAMING MACHINES
Section
Description
   
117.01   Definitions
Requirements
   
117.10   Permit required
   
117.11   Signage and owner, operator, or employee ID badges required
   
117.12   Transparent, uncovered windows required
   
117.13   Machine registration requirements
   
117.14   Prohibited locations
   
117.15   Operating hours of gaming machines
   
117.16   Certificate of occupancy (annual requirement)
   
117.17   Record keeping
   
117.18   Additional responsibility of permit holder
Initial Application/Renewal Requirements, Fees, and Other Provisions
   
117.30   Initial application and renewal application requirements
   
117.31   No assumed names allowed
   
117.32   Grounds for denial or revocation
   
117.33   Appeal from denial, suspension or revocation
   
117.34   Transfer of permit
   
117.35   Replacement permits or decals
   
117.36   Occupation tax
   
117.37   Regulatory enforcement license fee
   
117.38   Fee schedule
Enforcement
   
117.50   Violations of existing laws not authorized
   
117.51   Inspections, compliance
   
117.52   Sealing machine for nonpayment
   
117.53   Penalty for removal of sealed machine
   
117.54   Injunctions
   
117.55   Strict enforcement; exemptions
 
   
117.99   Penalty fees schedule
DESCRIPTION
§ 117.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE/GAMING MACHINE. Any coin operated or
electronic, electromechanical, or mechanical contrivance designed, made, and
adopted for bona fide amusement purposes that rewards the player exclusively
with non-cash merchandise, prizes, toys, or novelties, or a representation of
value redeemable for those items, that have a wholesale value available from a
single play of the game or device of not more than ten times the amount charged
to play the game or device once, or $5, whichever amount is less. Commonly
referred to as an EIGHT LINER.
   APPLICANT. An individual, proprietorship, corporation, association, and/or
other legal entity required to obtain a game room permit or someone who has
applied for a game room permit.
   CITY OFFICIAL. A code enforcement officer or building official of the city
or any peace officer of the state.
   EIGHT LINER. See AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE/GAMING MACHINE.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. A device described in Tex. Penal Code § 47.01(4)(A). 
   GAME ROOM. A building, facility, or other place that contains amusement
redemption machines of any number.
   GAME ROOM OWNER. An individual who:
      (1)   Has an ownership interest in or receives income from a game room or
an amusement redemption machine located in a game room;
      (2)   Is a partner, director, or officer of a business, company, or
corporation that has an ownership interest in a game room or in an amusement
redemption machine located in a game room;
      (3)   Is a shareholder that holds more than 10% of the outstanding shares
of a business, company, or corporation that has an ownership interest in a game
room or in an amusement redemption machine located in a game room;
      (4)   Signs a lease for a game room;
      (5)   Opens an account for utilities for a game room;
      (6)   Receives a certificate of occupancy for a game room;
      (7)   Pays for advertising for a game room; or
      (8)   Signs an alarm permit for a game room.
   NON-COMPLIANT BUSINESS. Any game room that existed and was in possession and
operating as a game room, including the operation of amusement redemption
machines, as of the date of the passage of the ordinance from which this
chapter is derived.
   NOTICE. Deemed effective on the date written notice to an applicant, permit
holder, or agent thereof is hand delivered or posted on the front exterior door
of the game room, or upon receipt by certified mail. If certified letter is not
signed for and not picked up from the post office after notice has been posted
at the establishment, lack of due diligence shall be considered as notice of
the contents of the letter.
   OPERATOR. An individual who supervises, manages, or participates in the
performance of activities that contribute to the functioning of a game room,
including the following activities:
      (1)    Operates a cash register, cash drawer, or other depository on the
premises of a game room or of a business where the money earned or the records
of credit card transactions or other credit transactions generated in any
manner by the operation of a game room or activities conducted in a game room
are kept;
      (2)   Displays, delivers, or provides to a customer of a game room
merchandise, goods, entertainment, or other services offered on the premises of
a game room;
      (3)   Takes orders from a customer of a game room for merchandise, goods,
entertainment, or other services offered on the premises of a game room; or
      (4)   Acts as a door attendant to regulate entry of customers or other
persons into a game room.
   PEACE OFFICER. Any person recognized by the current V.T.C.A. Code of
Criminal Procedure, § 2.12 (Who Are Peace Officers) and § 2.122 (Special
Investigators).
   PERSON. An owner, operator, individual, employee, agent, proprietorship,
corporation, association, or other legal entity.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. A building used by federal, state, or local government or a
building that is open or reasonably accessible to the general public.
   REGULATION(S). These regulations of the city for the operation of game
rooms.
   SCHOOL. A facility, including all attached playgrounds, dormitories,
stadiums and other  appurtenances that are part of the facility, used for the
primary purpose of instruction or education, including primary and secondary
schools, colleges, and universities, both public and private.
   SKILL OR PLEASURE COIN-OPERATED MACHINE. Any kind of coin-operated machine
that dispenses, or is used or is capable of being used to dispense or afford,
amusement, skill, or pleasure, or is operated for any purpose, other than for
dispensing only merchandise, music or service. This includes:
      (1)   A marble machine, marble table machine, marble shooting machine,
miniature racetrack machine, miniature football machine, miniature golf
machine, miniature bowling machine, billiard or pool game, or machine or device
that dispenses merchandise or commodities or plays music in connection with or
in addition to dispensing skill or pleasure; and
      (2)   Does not include an amusement machine designed exclusively for a
child.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
REQUIREMENTS
§ 117.10  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a game room to
operate, use, or maintain a game room without first obtaining a game room
permit issued under the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any operator, occupant or owner of the gaming
site to operate any gaming site located within the city unless the permit
issued for that site is posted at or near the principal public entrance to the
gaming site in such a manner that it will be conspicuous to patrons who enter
the gaming site.
   (C)   In any prosecution under division (A) above, it shall be presumed that
there was no permit at the time of the alleged offense, unless a permit was
then and there posted as provided in division (B).
   (D)   An application for an existing game room location that is submitted by
an individual who is different from the individual named as the owner or
operator on the current application or a re-application for an existing game
room location after denial or revocation shall be considered a new application
and not a renewal.
   (E)   A game room owner shall obtain a permit from the city for each game
room located in the city.
   (F)   The application for a permit required by this section shall be in the
form prescribed by the City Manager or his or her designee and shall contain
such information as he or she shall require. Any failure to provide the
information required by this section or a determination is made that
inaccurate, erroneous or incomplete information has been submitted shall be
grounds for denial of the application.
   (G)   Each city game room permit is valid for one year and shall expire on
the anniversary date of the issuance of the permit. A permit may be renewed for
the following calendar year beginning 60 days before the expiration of the
current permit by filing a completed application for each permit and paying the
applicable fee set forth in the fee schedule. A renewal application shall be
subject to the same requirements in this section as for an initial city game
room permit application.
   (H)   An owner or operator that operates a game room in violation of this
section shall be assessed a penalty as listed in penalty fee schedule.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.11  SIGNAGE AND OWNER, OPERATOR, OR EMPLOYEE ID BADGES REQUIRED.
   (A)   A game room shall have each outside door marked with a sign that:
      (1)   Reads "GAMING SITE" in four inch or larger block lettering; and
      (2)   Is legible and visible at all times from a distance of 25 feet from
the outside door.
      (3)   The sign must clearly read "GAMING SITE" and may not include any
advertisements.
   (B)   Owner and operator ID badges shall be worn to be visible at all times
while operating and working in a game room. The name tag shall be at least
three inches by five inches in size and shall state the employee's correct
legal first name and last name, and shall state his/her position (i.e. Manager)
on a separate line. The lettering shall be clearly visible, in a font size of
at least 36.
   (C)   Operators and owners without visible ID badges shall be fined
according to the penalty fee schedule.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other city ordinance, code or regulation to the
contrary, it shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a gaming site not
to clearly identify the site with a sign as required by this section. A penalty
shall be assessed according to the penalty fee schedule.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.12  TRANSPARENT, UNCOVERED WINDOWS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every gaming site shall have transparent, unobstructed windows or open
space on at least one side so that the area is open to view by the general
public passing by on a street. The owner, occupant, or operator of a gaming
site shall not permit any obstruction of such public view by the use of drawn
shades, blinds, partitions, tinting, advertisements, or other structure or
obstructions.
   (B)   Violation of this section will result in a penalty being assessed
according to the penalty fee schedule.
   (C)   The requirement of this section may be waived or modified by the
inspecting official if the business owner can demonstrate:
      (1)   The site holds a valid, current on-premise license under V.T.C.A,
Alcoholic Beverage Code Title 3, Subtitle B, Ch. 69 where the gaming machines
or eight liners are incidental to the primary business and;
      (2)   All of the site's gaming machines or eight liners are visible upon
entering the premises from the front door.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.13  MACHINE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Gaming machines, as defined in this chapter, shall be registered as
follows:
      (1)   The permit holder, owner or operator is required to maintain at the
gaming site a complete inventory, along with serial numbers or equivalent
identification, as set forth in divisions (4), (5), and (6) below at all times.
The initial application for permit shall include a certificate of the
inventory, along with serial numbers or equivalent identification, as set forth
in divisions (4), (5), and (6) below, of the machines that the permit holder
intends to have on site when the gaming site begins its business activities.
      (2)   Each renewal permit application shall contain a certificate of
inspection of updated inventory, along with serial numbers or equivalent
identification, as set forth in divisions (4), (5), and (6) below, of the
gaming machines that the permit holder intends to have on site when the gaming
site begins its business activities under the renewal license.
      (3)   Before a new gaming machine is put into operation at the gaming
site, the permit holder shall update the location’s inventory, register the
gaming machine with the city and pay all taxes and regulatory license fees as
required.
      (4)   Upon review of the inventory of machines under divisions (1), (2),
and (3) above, a city registration decal will be issued for each gaming
machine. The registration decal will contain an inventory number. The
registration decal for each machine shall be permanently affixed thereto and in
plain view at all times. Registration decals are not transferable. The failure
of any machine to display a current registration decal shall be a violation of
this section and subject to enforcement action by the city.
      (5)   The inventory of machines under divisions (1), (2), and (3) above
shall provide the following information: the manufacturer(s); the serial number
(s); common name, type or description of the game played on the machine. The
registration decal shall contain the inventory number of the machine.
      (6)   Any back-up or replacement amusement redemption machines shall be
secured in a locked storage area or closet to which the public is not allowed
to enter and such machines shall not be connected to electricity or otherwise
operational. The occupation tax on such back-up or replacement amusement
redemption machines shall be paid annually regardless of whether such machines
are used by the game rooms.
   (B)   A penalty as listed in the penalty fee schedule will be assessed
against each unregistered machine found to be in operation at a gaming site.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.14  PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Gaming sites must comply with all zoning laws and requirements.
   (B)   A game room in operation shall not be located:
      (1)   Within 1,500 feet from any existing or planned school, regular
place of religious worship, or residential neighborhood. "Planned" means that
steps have been taken toward the facility's or structure's development
including but not limited to a permit received, a plat approved, design work
started, a bond received, or an order approved by a governmental entity's
governing body; or
      (2)   Within a distance of 2,000 feet from where two or more other game
rooms are  located.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, measurements shall be made in a
straight line from the nearest portion of the building or appurtenances used by
the game room to the nearest portion of the building or appurtenances that are
used for the purposes identified in division (B) above.
   (D)   Game rooms are exempt from these distancing restrictions upon proof
that the applicant continuously owned and operated the game room at the same
location and under the same name prior to the formal date of adoption of this
chapter.
   (E)   An owner or operator that operates a game room in violation of this
section shall be assessed a penalty as listed in the penalty fee schedule.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.15  OPERATING HOURS OF GAMING MACHINES.
   It shall be the duty of any owner or operator of a game room to ensure
compliance with this section.
   (A)   A game room shall operate only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:
00 p.m.
   (B)   Each gaming machine must be made physically inaccessible and unusable
from 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Each hour and/or portion of an hour that a gaming
machine is accessible and operational during prohibited hours is a separate
violation as well as a separate violation per machine.
   (C)   An owner or operator that operates a game room in violation of this
section shall be assessed a penalty as listed in the penalty fee schedule. Each
hour and/or portion of an hour that a game room is operating during prohibited
hours in violation of these regulations is a separate violation as well as a
separate violation per machine.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§  117.16  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY (ANNUAL REQUIREMENT).
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any operator, occupant or owner of the gaming
site to operate any gaming site located within the city unless the certificate
of occupancy issued for that site is posted at or near the principal public
entrance to the gaming site in such a manner that it will be conspicuous to
patrons who enter the gaming site.
   (B)   A certificate of occupancy issued by Hardin County Emergency Services
District #5 must be renewed annually and must accompany the initial permit
application and each renewal permit application.
   (C)   All associated laws, ordinances, and adopted codes shall apply to
obtaining said certificate of occupancy.
   (D)   An owner or operator that operates a game room in violation of this
section shall be assessed a penalty as listed in the penalty fee schedule.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.17  RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   A game room shall maintain onsite, and produce to any peace officer,
fire safety official, and/or designated employee for inspection:
      (1)   A record for each employee that contains the name, address, date of
birth, state identification number or social security number, job function, W-
2 or W-4 form, a copy of application for work with the game room, a copy of the
I-9 filed as part of employment eligibility verification for the Department of
Homeland Security, and a photograph of the employee;
      (2)   A daily register that contains the name, date of birth, state
identification number or  social security number, and job function of each
employee present at the establishment that day. Every owner, operator,
employee, agent, and/or any other  individual acting for or acting on behalf of
the game room is required to sign the  daily register with the information
required above immediately upon entering the game room; and
      (3)   A copy of the state tax record forms detailing each machine found
on the premises of the game room by identifying the machine by name of
manufacturer, serial number, type of machine, the serial number of the state
tax stamp to include the year of expiration of each tax stamp required, the
name of the individual(s), proprietorship(s), corporation(s), association(s),
or other legal entity(s) that owns, receive profits from, and has registered
the machine in their name with the Texas Comptroller with a brief description
of their ownership and financial interest in the machine in a spread sheet
format.
      (4)   A game room shall preserve the daily register required by division
(A)(2) for 90 days after the date the register was made. The register must be
maintained at the game room, it must be accessible by any person on duty at the
game room, and must be made available to any peace officer or fire safety
official.
   (B)   An owner or operator that operates a game room in violation of this
section shall be assessed a penalty as listed in the penalty fee schedule.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.18  ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITY OF PERMIT HOLDER.
   (A)   A permit holder hereunder shall not permit any of the following
activities within the permitted gaming site:
      (1)   The sale, purchase, possession or consumption of any alcoholic
beverages as the same is permitted by the Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code, unless
the gaming site is licensed under the provisions of said code and the
ordinances of the city for the sale, purchase, possession or consumption of
alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   The operation of any gaming machine by a person younger than 21
years of age.
   (B)   A permit holder hereunder shall ensure that the owner, operator, and/
or employee of the licensed premises must be present to supervise the operation
of the game room. The game room shall not be left unattended.
   (C)   An owner or operator that operates a game room in violation of this
section shall be assessed a penalty as listed in the penalty fee schedule.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
INITIAL APPLICATION/RENEWAL REQUIREMENTS, FEES, AND OTHER PROVISIONS
§ 117.30  INITIAL APPLICATION AND RENEWAL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The gaming permit application must be submitted with the following:
   (A)   Location, by address, of the proposed operation;
   (B)   A site plan including the following details:
      (1)   Overall view of the property;
      (2)   Parking spaces for the location;
      (3)   Floor plan of building;
      (4)   Locations of gaming machines;
      (5)   Windows and doors;
      (6)   Dimensions of building, windows, and doors;
   (C)   The nature of the business (general description) operating the game
room;
   (D)   A copy of a certificate of occupancy issued by the Hardin County
Emergency Services District #5 for the proposed game room;
   (E)   A certificate of the inventory, along with serial numbers or
equivalent identification, of all machines that the permit holder intends to
have on site when the gaming site begins its business activities;
   (F)   The non-refundable application or renewal fee as listed in the fee
schedule;
   (G)   The occupation tax fee per machine as listed in the fee schedule in
section;
   (H)   The regulatory enforcement license fee per machine as listed in the
fee schedule;
   (I)   Whether a previous permit of the applicant, or, if applicable, a
corporate officer of the applicant, has been revoked within two years of filing
of the application;
   (J)   A copy of the certificate of formation if the business is registered
with the Secretary of State, or the applicant's DBA, if applicable;
   (K)   In the case of corporate ownership, a copy of the certificate of
incorporation;
   (L)   Name, address, telephone number, and driver's license number of the
following persons, if applicable:
      (1)   Applicant if a natural person;
      (2)   All persons who own any interest in the amusement redemption
machine game room;
      (3)   All corporate officers, if any, of the business;
      (4)   If a partnership, each of the general and limited partners;
      (5)   The property owner; and
      (6)   All operators and employees of the property and/or business.
   (M)   A completed background check and authorization permitting the release
of this information to the city for all business owner(s), operator(s), or
employee(s) or the proposed game room. In addition, a completed background
check and authorization permitting the release of this information to the city
is also required for property owners if the property owner owns, operates, or
supervises the business operating the amusement redemption machine. The
background check will include a Texas and Federal Bureau of Investigation
criminal history record information background check. The form authorization
permitting release of results of the background checks to the city is available
from the city's police department. Upon application or renewal for a license/
permit, hiring new operators, or employees of the game room, the applicant is
required and shall be financially responsible for obtaining and ensuring that
the city has received all background checks as provided and required under this
division.
   (N)   A sworn statement that:
      (1)   All the facts contained in the application are true and correct;
      (2)   The location and operation of the amusement redemption machine game
room will not violate any applicable deed restrictions; and
      (3)   The amusement redemption machine game room will be operated in
accordance with all laws and city ordinances, including V.T.C.A., Penal Code
Ch. 47.
   (O)   Name, address, and telephone number of an emergency contact person who
can be reached  after hours.
   (P)   Any false statement made by an applicant on the application shall
subject the permit to immediate suspension pending revocation and the applicant
may be prosecuted as a violation of V.T.C.A., Penal Code § 37.10, (tampering
with governmental records), a third degree felony.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.31  NO ASSUMED NAMES ALLOWED.
   No owner, operator, or employee of a game room may use an assumed name to
apply for a permit/license or use an assumed name while on site unless
authorized by a law enforcement agency for protective purposes.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.32  GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OR REVOCATION.
   Initial application or renewal application will be denied for one or more of
the following reasons:
   (A)   A false statement as to a material matter made in an application for a
permit;
   (B)   Revocation of a permit, pursuant to this chapter, of the applicant or
corporate officer of the applicant within two years preceding the filing of the
application;
   (C)   The applicant, owner, co-owner, operator or any employee has a felony
conviction, a class "A" misdemeanor conviction in the last ten years, a class
"B" misdemeanor conviction in the last five years, or a current arrest warrant
from any place, even though the issuing state will not extradite from Texas.
   (D)   The applicant, owner, co-owner, operator or any employee has any
conviction for offenses involving gambling and the possession of gambling
paraphernalia shall be grounds for denial, revocation, or refusal for renewal
of such licenses because these businesses offer special opportunities for
gambling activities.
   (E)   Initial application or renewal of a permit will be denied or an
existing permit will be revoked if it is determined that the applicant, owner
or permit holder is indebted to the city for any fee, costs, penalties, or
delinquent taxes at the time of application or renewal.
   (F)   Existing permits issued under this provision shall be immediately
revoked for more than two separate occurrences of any violations during the
effective permit period by giving written notice, stating the reason for
revocation.
   (G)   No permit shall be issued within a period of two years to anyone whose
permit has been revoked.
   (H)   Application for additional or new permits issued under this provision
shall be denied to an owner or occupant who has been found in violation of this
chapter for a period of two years.
   (I)   Any failure of a proposed game room to meet all requirements listed in
the initial application/renewal requirements shall be grounds for denial,
revocation, or suspension of a game room license.
   (J)   There shall be no amusement redemption machines in any game room
within the city if there has been a state or federal felony conviction of any
offenses involving amusement redemption machines or illegal gambling at the
premises, including previous owners.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.33  APPEAL FROM DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Any applicant desiring to contest the denial, revocation, or suspension of a
game room license under this code may request a hearing before a hearing panel
designated by the City Manager in accordance with the following procedures:
   (A)   A request for hearing must be in writing and delivered to the City
Manager within ten days of the denial or citation. The applicant waives the
right to hearing if the request is not timely received by the City Manager.
   (B)   The issue before the hearing panel shall be whether or not the
proposed or existing game room complies with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   If the hearing panel determines that a proposed game room does not
comply with the requirements of this chapter, then application for a game room
license shall be denied. The applicant may re-apply for a game room license if
changes are made to bring the proposed game room into compliance with this
chapter.
   (D)   If the hearing panel determines a game room has committed more than
two separate violation occurrences within the effective permit period, the game
room license will be revoked.
   (E)   The decision of the hearing panel shall be final.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.34  TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   A permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be specific to
the site and personal to the holder thereof and shall not be transferable or
assignable.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.35  REPLACEMENT PERMITS OR DECALS.
   (A)   A replacement permit shall be issued to the original applicant for one
lost, destroyed, or mutilated after a written application is submitted with the
fee listed in the fee schedule on a form provided by the city for such purpose.
   (B)   A replacement permit shall bear the same expiration date as the one it
replaces.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.36  OCCUPATION TAX.
   Every permit holder who controls, possesses, exhibits or displays, or who
permits to be exhibited or displayed in the city for public patronage or
operation by the public, any gaming machine shall pay, and is hereby levied on
each such gaming machine, except those exempt under this chapter, an annual
occupation tax in the amount equal to one-fourth of the current state
occupation tax. All occupation taxes for gaming machines are payable annually
in advance. The fee for issuing a replacement occupation tax receipt for one
lost, destroyed or mutilated shall be as listed in the fee schedule.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.37  REGULATORY ENFORCEMENT LICENSE FEE.
   An owner, operator, or lessee of an amusement machine game room shall be
required to secure a regulatory enforcement license annually. An amusement
redemption machine game room shall be required to secure a regulatory
enforcement license by paying to the city an annual inspection and regulatory
enforcement license fee as listed in the fee schedule for each amusement
redemption gaming machine. The regulatory license fee is implemented to cover
the costs to issue the permits, regulate the amusement redemption machine game
rooms, and to determine whether the provisions of this chapter are complied
with. The annual term for all gaming machines within a gaming site shall have
an expiration date which coincides with the gaming room permit expiration/
renewal date irrespective of the gaming machine initial licensing date.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.38  FEE SCHEDULE.
 
Fee Description                                Fee
Application fee                                $1,000
Renewal fee                                    $1,000
Occupation tax                                 $15
Replacement decals                             $15
Regulatory enforcement license fee per machine $425
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 117.50  VIOLATIONS OF EXISTING LAWS NOT AUTHORIZED.
   Nothing herein shall be construed or have the effect to license, permit,
authorize or legalize any machine, device, table, or gaming machine, the
keeping, exhibition, operation, display or maintenance of which is illegal or
in violation of any ordinance of the city, any section of the Penal Code or the
Constitution of the state.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.51  INSPECTIONS, COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all owners, operators, managers, or employees
of a game room, or other person exercising control over a game room, or a
portion of a game room, to provide any law enforcement officer or code
enforcement officer with immediate unrestricted access during business hours to
all areas of a game room and to all amusement redemption machines.
   (B)   The gaming site shall conform to all zoning ordinances, building codes
and fire prevention codes of the city and comply with all federal, state, and
local ordinances and regulations relevant to the operations of a gaming site or
gaming machine.
   (C)   An owner, operator, occupant, or any person who does not allow
immediate access to the area of the gaming site where such machines are located
to officials for the purpose of inspection or enforcement commits an offense.
See the penalty fee schedule.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.52  SEALING MACHINE FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   Any law enforcement or code enforcement officer charged with the
administration of this code shall seal, in a manner that will prevent further
operation, any gaming machine upon which the tax and enforcement fee required
by this chapter has not been paid or upon which the decal is not properly
displayed. The owner or operator of any machine subject to this chapter shall
be required to pay a fee equal to the maximum amount permitted under V.T.C.A.,
Occupations Code § 2153.453, for the release of any machine sealed and any
outstanding enforcement fee amounts, as provided herein, for nonpayment of the
tax, nonpayment of the enforcement fee, or for failure to properly display the
decal evidencing the payment of the tax and proper registration of the machine.
Upon proof of payment of the occupation tax fee and the regulatory enforcement
license fee, as well as the violation penalty fee, the officer will remove the
seal.
   (B)   Any owner desiring to contest the tax, enforcement fee, or penalty
owed to the city to secure the release of a sealed machine may request an
appeal as described.
(Ord. 2021-07-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.53  PENALTY FOR REMOVAL OF SEALED MACHINES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any owner or operator to ensure compliance
with this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to remove from the permitted site any machine
that has been sealed. Whoever removes or causes to be removed a machine that is
sealed shall be punished by a fine as listed in the penalty fee schedule.
(Ord. 2021-7-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.54  INJUNCTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the fines and penalties provided in this chapter, if it
appears that a person has violated or is violating or is threatening to violate
any provisions of this chapter, the City Attorney may institute a civil suit in
a court of competent jurisdiction for injunctive relief to restrain the person
from continuing the violation or threat of violation.
   (B)   On application for injunctive relief and a finding that a person is
violating or threatening to violate any provision of this chapter, the court
shall grant such injunctive relief as the facts may warrant.
(Ord. 2021-7-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.55  STRICT ENFORCEMENT; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   All law enforcement personnel, inspectors, and other designated
personnel shall carry out the provisions of this chapter and may issue
citations for violations of this chapter. All law enforcement officers and
representatives shall strictly enforce and prosecute the provisions of this
chapter, and court officials shall see that this chapter receives strict
interpretation and adjudication in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   A person in possession or control of a gaming machine is exempt from
this chapter if:
      (1)   The gaming machine is maintained exclusively in a personal
residence and solely for personal use; or
      (2)   The gaming machine has been altered in such a way that it no longer
functions as a coin-operated machine and is not patronized for the purpose of
winning cash or cash value prizes; or
      (3)   The gaming machine is owned by, leased, or rented to organizations
operated exclusively for charitable, educational, religious, or benevolent
purposes. An organization with social or fraternal activities does not qualify;
or
      (4)   The gaming machines designed for and utilized exclusively by
children are expressly exempt from the tax and enforcement fee.
(Ord. 2021-7-01, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 117.99  PENALTY FEES SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Proof of a culpable mental state is not required for a conviction of
an offense under this chapter.
   (B)   Any violation charged pursuant to this section shall be independent of
and may be in addition to any administrative penalties which may be imposed
regarding the suspension, revocation or denial of any permit or license granted
under this chapter.
   (C)   Each day a violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense. Except
when otherwise noted.
Violation Description Fine Range
Violation Description                                              Fine Range
Violation of operating hours, per machine, per hour and/or portion
of an hour
Signage
Transparent, uncovered windows required
Machine registration requirements                                  $250 to $500
Refusal of inspection
Operation of gaming machines by minors
Penalty for removal of sealed machine
Penalty for no visible ID badge
Operation of game room with no permit
(Ord. 2021-7-01, passed 8-17-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   BANNED SUBSTANCES
      
132.   SEX OFFENDERS; RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS
      
133.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
      
134.   POSSESSION, SALE OR INGESTION OF ILLEGAL SMOKING MATERIAL
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Trespassing
   
130.02   Firefighting interference; arson
   
130.03   Discharge of firearms
   
130.04   Suspicious persons
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Trespasses prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to commit a trespass within the city upon either public or private
property.
   (B)   Specifically enumerated trespasses.
      (1)   Without constituting any limitation upon the provision of division
(A) above, any of the following acts by any person, firm or corporation shall
be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in violation of the
provisions of division (A) above and appropriate action may be taken hereunder
at any time, or from time to time, to prevent or punish any violation or
violations of this section.
      (2)   The aforesaid enumerated acts shall include:
         (a)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any
owner or occupant thereof;
         (b)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
         (c)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in
case of being requested, either orally or in writing by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
         (d)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft
after being requested to leave by the person having the right.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  FIREFIGHTING INTERFERENCE; ARSON.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to step on, or to drive any
vehicle on or across, any fire hose of the Fire Department of the city at any
time, whether it is under water pressure or not.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any vehicle
upon the streets of the city for a period of five minutes after the sounding of
the official siren of the city. At the sounding of the fire alarm, all persons
driving or operating vehicles on the streets of the city shall immediately
drive the vehicles to the right-hand curb and keep the vehicles stationary for
a period of five minutes. These provisions do not apply to firefighters on
official duty.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to interfere in any
manner with the firefighters of the city while the firefighters are en route to
a fire or while the firefighters are engaged in fighting any fire.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle
within ten feet of any fire hydrant at any time or to park any vehicle within
two blocks of any fire within the city.
      (5)   No person shall knowing give or make a false alarm of fire within
the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   The city hereby offers a reward of $250 for the arrest and conviction
of any person or persons found guilty of committing the crime of arson within
the corporate limits of the city. This reward is a standard offer and shall be
paid out of the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. passed 10-11-1943; Ord. passed 1-8-1964)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except a peace officer in the
discharge of his or her official duty, to discharge any firearm within the
city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge gravel, marble shot
or any projectile missle, object or material out of a gravel shoot or blowgun,
air gun or rubber sling or compressed gas, compressed air or spring device;
provided, however, this section shall not be construed to prevent the use of
compressed air devices in delivering handbills, circulars and newspapers.
(Ord. passed 11- -1979)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  SUSPICIOUS PERSONS.
   Police officers shall question all persons demeanor, character or conduct
found of the squares, streets or any public place or thoroughfare, or on or
upon or about public or private buildings or premises, where they have no right
or permission to be.  If any person does not give a satisfactory account of
himself or herself and if the police officer has good reason to believe that
the person intends or is about to commit or has committed any violation of the
law or ordinances of the city, it is hereby made the duty of the officer to act
accordingly.
(Ord. passed 8-16-1965)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
130.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not exceeding
$200.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
130.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of misdemeanor and be
fined in any sum not exceeding $100.
   (D)   Violation of any provision of §
130.03 shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $200.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 10-11-1943; Ord. passed 11- -1979)
CHAPTER 131:  BANNED SUBSTANCES
Section
   
131.01   Types of banned substances
   
131.02   Exception
   
131.03   Additional prohibition
   
131.04   Non-applicability
   
131.05   Effective date
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  TYPES OF BANNED SUBSTANCES.
   The following substances are banned within the city limits and its extra-
territorial jurisdiction and that it shall be unlawful for any person to use,
possess, purchase, sell, publicly display for sale or attempt to sell, give or
barter any one or more of the following substances within the city or its
extra- territorial jurisdiction:
   (A)   Salvia divinorum or Salvinorum A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of the plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant, its seeds
or extracts;
   (B)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6dimethyl-3(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-61,
7, 10, 10a-tetrhydro-benzo[c]chromen-l-ol, commonly known as HU-210;
   (C)   l-Pentyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole commonly known as JWH-018 Spice orK2;
   (D)   l-Butyl-3-(lnaphthoyl)indole commonly known as JWH-073;
   (E)   N-benzylpiperazine commonly known as BZP;
   (F)   l-(3-[trifluoromethylphenyl]) piperazine commonly known as TFMPP;
   (G)   Any other synthetic cannabinoid; or
   (H)   Any similar substance which when inhaled or otherwise ingested
produces intoxication, stupefaction, giddiness, paralysis, irrational behavior
or, in any manner, changes, distorts or disturbs the auditory, visual or mental
process and the product or substance has no other apparent legitimate purpose
for consumers.
(Ord. 2010-, passed 8-17-2010)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02  EXCEPTION.
   It is not a violation of this chapter if a person was acting under the
supervision of an authorized law enforcement officer to enforce or ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 131.03  ADDITIONAL PROHIBITION.
   It is unlawful for any person, knowingly, to breathe, inhale, drink or
otherwise ingest any compound, liquid or chemical listed within this chapter,
or a similar substance for the purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication,
stupefaction giddiness, paralysis, irrational behavior or, in any manner,
changing, distorting or disturbing the auditory, visual or mental process.
(Ord. 2010-, passed 8-17-2010)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04  NON-APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter does not apply to any person who commits any act described in
this chapter pursuant to the direction or prescription of a licensed physician
or dentist licensed by the state to direct or prescribe the act. This chapter,
likewise, does not apply to the inhalation of anesthesia for a medical or
dental purpose.
(Ord. 2010-, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 131.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective upon its passage and publication as required
by law.
(Ord. 2010-, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating this chapter or any portion thereof shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to fine upon
conviction in the Municipal Court.
   (B)   The city retains all legal rights and remedies available to it
pursuant to local, state and federal law.
(Ord. 2010-, passed 8-17-2010)
CHAPTER 132:  SEX OFFENDERS; RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
132.01   Findings and intent
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Sexual offender residence prohibition; exceptions
   
132.04   Property owners prohibited from renting real property to sexual
offenders
   
132.05   Effective date
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01  FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   Repeat sexual offenders, sexual offenders that use physical violence
and sexual offenders who prey on children are sexual predators who present an
extreme threat to the public safety. Sexual offenders are extremely likely to
use physical violence and to repeat their offenses and most sexual offenders
commit many offenses, have many more victims than are ever reported and are
prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes. This makes the cost of sexual
offender victimization to society at large, while incalculable, clearly
exorbitant.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers wherein certain sexual offenders
and sexual predators are prohibited from establishing temporary or permanent
residences.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2011)
§ 132.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges or resides for
14 or more consecutive days.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges or resides for
a period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year which is
not the person’s permanent residence, or a place where the person routinely
abides, resides or lodges for a period of four or more consecutive or non-
consecutive days in any month and which is not the person’s permanent
residence.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2011)
§ 132.03  SEXUAL OFFENDER RESIDENCE PROHIBITION; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who has been convicted of a violation of
Tex. Penal Code Art. 43.25, Art. 43.26, Art. 21.08, Art. 21.11, Art. 22.011,
Art. 22.021 and Art. 25.02, regardless of whether the adjudication was
deferred, in which the victim of the offense was less than 16 years of age, to
establish a permanent residence or temporary residence within 1,000 feet of any
premises where children commonly gather, including, but not limited to, a
school, day care facility, playground, public or private youth center, public
swimming pool or video arcade facility, as those terms are defined in Tex.
Health and Safety Code Art. 481.134.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining the minimum distance separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the permanent or temporary residence to the nearest property
line of the premises where children commonly gather, as described herein.
   (C)   A person residing within 1,000 feet of those places where children
commonly gather, as specified herein, does not commit a violation of this
chapter if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person established the permanent or temporary residence and has
complied with all the sex offender registration laws of the state, prior to the
date of the adoption of this chapter;
      (2)   The person was a minor when he or she committed the offense and was
not convicted as an adult;
      (3)   The person is a minor; and/or
      (4)   The premises where children commonly gather, as specified herein,
within 1,000 feet of the person’s permanent or temporary residence was opened
after the person established the permanent or temporary residence and complied
with all sex offender registration laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2011)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04  PROPERTY OWNERS PROHIBITED FROM RENTING REAL PROPERTY TO SEXUAL
OFFENDERS.
   It is unlawful to let or rent any place, structure or part thereof,
manufactured home, trailer or other conveyance, with the knowledge that it will
be used as a permanent residence or temporary residence by any person
prohibited from establishing permanent residence or temporary residence
pursuant to the terms of this chapter, if the place, structure or part thereof,
manufactured home, trailer or other conveyance, is located within 1,000 feet of
any premises where children commonly gather, including but not limited to, a
school, day care facility, playground, public or private youth center, public
swimming pool or video arcade facility, as those terms are defined in Tex. Loc.
Gov’t Code Ch. 51.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2011)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective from and after the date of its passage.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2011)
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §
132.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine consistent with penalties under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §
132.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine consistent with penalties under the laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2011)
CHAPTER 133:  CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Offenses
   
133.03   Defenses
   
133.04   Enforcement
   
133.05   Effective date
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS. Eleven o’clock p.m. on any day (Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday or Saturday) until 6:00 a.m. of the following day.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury of loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
   OFFICER. A police officer.
   OPERATOR.
      (1)   Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment.
      (2)   The term includes the members or partner of an association or
partnership and the officers of a corporation.
   PARENT. A person who is:
      (1)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of another person;
or
      (2)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian to
have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, street, highways and the
common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   REMAIN. To:
      (1)   Linger or stay; or
      (2)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by an officer of the
owner, operator or other person in control on the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2009)
§ 133.02  OFFENSES.
   (A)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours.
   (C)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2009)  Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03  DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
133.02(B) that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home without detour of stop, on official school, religious or
other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a
civic organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; and/or
      (9)   Married or had been married or has disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with Tex. Family Code Ch. 31.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
133.02(C) that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the Police Department that a minor was present on the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2009)
§ 133.04  ENFORCEMENT.
   Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, an officer shall
ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the public place. The
officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this section unless
the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on
any response and other circumstances, no defense in §
133.03 is present.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2009)
§ 133.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect after the passage and publication as required
by law.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2009)
§ 133.99  PENALTY.
   A person who violated a provision of this chapter is guilty of a separate
offense for each day or part of a day during which the violation is committed,
continued or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine
not to exceed $500.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2009)
CHAPTER 134:  POSSESSION, SALE OR INGESTION OF ILLEGAL SMOKING MATERIAL
Section
   
134.01   Unlawful substances
   
134.02   Non-violation; compliance
   
134.03   Purposeful ingestion
   
134.04   Use or possession of illegal smoking material paraphernalia
   
134.05   Exemption; violation
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01  UNLAWFUL SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, possess, purchase, sell,
display for sale or attempt to sell, give, deliver or barter any one or more of
the following substances however marketed, which can reasonably be converted
for smoking purposes whether it is presented as incense, tobacco, herbs,
spices, or any blend thereof, if it includes any of the following chemicals or
a comparable chemical, within the city limits:
      (1)   Salvia divinorum or salvinorin A, all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
      (2)   2-[(1R, 3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol (also
known as CP47,497) and homologues;
      (3)   (6aS, 10aS)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a, 7, 10, 10a- tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol, commonly known as HU-210, 211
or dexanabinol;
      (4)   1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole, commonly known as JWH-018, Spice
or K2;
      (5)   1-butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole, commonly known as JWH-073;
      (6)   1-pentyl-3-(4-methoxynaphthoyl) indole, commonly known as JWH-081;
      (7)   N-benzylpiperazine, commonly known as B2P;
      (8)   1-(3-(trifluoromethylphenyl) piperazine, commonly known as TFMPP;
      (9)   Any other synthetic cannabinoid; or
      (10)   Any similar substance which when inhaled or otherwise ingested
produces intoxication, stupefaction, giddiness, paralysis, irrational behavior,
or in any manner, changes, distorts, or disturbs the auditory, visual, or
mental process and the product or substance has no other apparent legitimate
purpose for consumers.
   (B)   Products containing some or all of the above substances are currently
being marketed under the following commercial names: "K-2," "K-2 summit," "K-
2 sex," "genie," "dascents," "zohai," "sage," "spice," "KO knock-out 2," "spice
gold," "spice diamond," "yucatan fire," "solar flare," "pep spice," "fire n'
ice," and "salvia divinorum."
   (C)   Any product containing any of the chemical compounds set forth above
shall be subject to the provisions of this section, regardless of whether they
are marketed under alternative names.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2014)
§ 134.02  NON-VIOLATION; COMPLIANCE.
   It is not a violation of this chapter if a person was acting under the
supervision of an authorized law enforcement officer to enforce or ensure
compliance with this section.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2014)
§ 134.03  PURPOSEFUL INGESTION.
   It is unlawful for any person, knowingly, to breathe, inhale, drink or
otherwise ingest any compound, liquid or chemical listed within this chapter,
or a similar substance for the purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication,
stupefaction, giddiness, paralysis, irrational behavior, or in any manner,
changing, distorting, or disturbing the auditory, visual, or mental process.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2014)
§ 134.04  USE OR POSSESSION OF ILLEGAL SMOKING MATERIAL PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Illegal smoking material paraphernalia shall mean any paraphernalia,
equipment or utensil that is used or intended to be used in ingesting or
inhaling illegal smoking materials and may include, but is not limited to: a
metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipe with or without
a screen, permanent screen, hashish head or punctured metal bowl, a water pipe,
a carburetion tube or device, a smoking or carburetion mask, a chamber pipe, a
carburetor pipe, an electric pipe, an air-driven pipe, a chillum, a bong, or an
ice pipe or chiller.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in their possession any
illegal smoking material paraphernalia with the intent to use it, to ingest,
inhale or otherwise consume illegal smoking material. If a person is found in
possession of this type of paraphernalia it will be a violation of this chapter
if appropriate forensic testing is done on the paraphernalia and traces of
illegal smoking material are present on the device.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2014)
§ 134.05  EXEMPTION; VIOLATION.
   This section does not apply to any person who commits any act described in
this section pursuant to the direction or prescription of a licensed physician
or dentist licensed by the State of Texas to direct or prescribe such act. This
section likewise does not apply to the inhalation of anesthesia for a medical
or dental purpose. Each continuing day's violation under this section shall
constitute a separate offense. The penal provisions imposed under this section
shall not preclude the city from filing suit to enjoin the violation. The city
retains all legal rights and remedies available to it pursuant to local, state
and federal law.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2014)
§ 134.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporate entity who violates this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine upon conviction thereof, in an
amount not exceeding $2,000.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2014)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   MANUFACTURED HOMES
      
153.   STORM WATER DRAINAGE
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   HOUSING STANDARDS
      156.   COMPREHENSIVE ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150:  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
150.01   Plan adopted by reference
§ 150.01  PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan submitted to the City Council on 8-21-1990 and
the revisions submitted and approved on 10-31-1991 and 3-17-1992 be adopted as
the “Comprehensive Plan of the City of Sour Lake, Texas”.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Plan and its revisions, referred to in division (A)
above, shall be attached to the ordinance codified herein and shall be a part
of this section.
   (C)   Future revisions to the Comprehensive Plan shall be adopted by the
City Council in the form of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1992)
CHAPTER 151:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
151.08   Development permit
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.11   Interpretation
   
151.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.13   Effective date
Administration
   
151.25   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.26   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.27   Permit procedures
   
151.28   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.40   General standards
   
151.41   Specific standards
   
151.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.43   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH zones)
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in the Flood Control Insurance Act, Tex.
Water Code § 16.315, delegated the responsibility of local governmental units
to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City
Council does ordain as follows.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in a manner as to minimize future flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.04  METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve the uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH or VO zone on a
community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. The flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet
flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After detailed
rate-making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, Al-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) and found in the accompanying flood insurance study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30 or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year. Also called the BASE FLOOD.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before 1-1-1975, for FIRM’s effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of flooding).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes the state
or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for
the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after 12-31-1974, whichever is later, and includes any
subsequent improvements to the structures. For floodplain management purposes,
NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the “start of construction”
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to the
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348)),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.6 of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Flood
Insurance Program regulations is presumed to be in violation until the time as
that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.06  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   The chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard with the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.07  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
“The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Hardin County and Incorporated Areas”,
dated 10-6-2010, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps and/or flood
boundary-floodway maps (FIRM and/or FBFM) dated 10-6-2010, and any revisions
thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.08  DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.09  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.10  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement, covenant
or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.11  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.12  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations.
   (B)   On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood heights
may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (C)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within those areas will be free from flooding
or flood damages.
   (D)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the community
or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.13  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter becomes effective immediately after publication.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.25  DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Manager is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 C.F.R. (Emergency Management and Assistance - National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.26  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is required;
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency, which is the State Water Development Board (TWDB) and also
the State Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of the notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
151.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.40 through
151.43;
   (I)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community; and
   (J)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, § 65.12, of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community’s FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided that
the community first completes all of the provisions required by § 65.12.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.27  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the non-residential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
151.41;
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all information in accordance with division
(B) below.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.28  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal the decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level; providing, the relevant factors herein have been fully considered.
As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification
required for issuing the variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach conditions to the granting of variances as
it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this §
151.03.
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use; provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in division (D) above are met; and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.40  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air-conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.41  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
151.07, 151.26 and 151.42, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to at least one foot above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A) as
proposed in §
151.42 is satisfied.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to at least
one foot above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the
structure is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural
design, specifications and plans for the construction, and shall certify that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice as outlined in this division (B). A record of the
certification which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood
waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require that the following manufactured homes that are placed or
substantially improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on
sites be elevated on a permanent foundation so that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
this division (D) be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot
above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A1-
30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM either:
         (a)   Ne on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements of §
151.42 and the elevation and anchoring requirements for “manufactured homes” in
division (D) above.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.42  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
151.02,
151.03 and
151.04.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
151.03,
151.27 and
151.40 through
151.43.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
151.26 and
151.41.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.43  STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.26 are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood
hazards associated with flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,
and where velocity flow may be evident. The flooding is characterized by
ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to at least one
foot above the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as
high as the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least
two feet if no depth number is specified);
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures;
      (1)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to at least one
foot above the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as
high as the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least
two feet if no depth number is specified); or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that below the base specified flood depth in an AO Zone, or below the base
flood elevation in an AH Zone, level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy;
   (C)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in §
151.42 are satisfied; and
   (D)   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this court order
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this court
order by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this court order or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $500 for each violation and, in addition, shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City
Council from taking other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy
any violation.
(Ord. passed 9-21-2010)
CHAPTER 152:  MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Prohibition of mobile homes and recreational vehicles
   
152.04   Permit for manufactured home location
   
152.05   Standards and requirements
   
152.06   Notices, hearings and orders
   
152.07   Variance
   
152.08   Compliance
   
152.09   Effective date
Manufactured Home Parks
   
152.20   Definitions
   
152.21   Permits
   
152.22   Inspection
   
152.23   Notices, hearings and orders
   
152.24   Mobile home park standards or manufactured home park standards
   
152.25   Effective date
Setback Requirements
   
152.40   Setback distances
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Flood Damage Prevention, see
Ch. 151
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that there is a growing need to provide the citizens
of the city with safe, affordable and well-constructed housing. The City
Council finds that manufactured housing has become a primary housing source of
many of its citizens. It is the specific intent of the City Council to improve
the general welfare and safety of purchasers and occupants of manufactures
housing in the city. The City Council finds that existing statutes and
regulations are not adequate to provide for the full protection of the
consumer. The City Council finds that it is the responsibility of the city to
provide for the protection of its citizens by imposing certain regulations on
the installation of manufactured housing, in recognition of these findings, the
City Council deems it necessary to expand various regulation powers to deal
with these problems. The City Council finds this to be the most economical and
efficient means of dealing with this problem and serving the public interest.
Accordingly, this subchapter shall be liberally construed and applied to
promote its underlying policies and purposes.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEPARTMENT. The Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation.
      HUD-CODE MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure constructed on or after 6-15-
1976, according to the rules of the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the
traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet of more in
length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems. The term does not
include a recreational vehicle as that term is defined by 25 C.F.R. § 3282.8
(g).
      INSTALLATION. When used in reference to manufactured housing means the
transporting of manufactured homes or manufactured components to the place
where they will be used by the consumer, the construction of the foundation
system, whether temporary or permanent, and the placement and erection of a
manufactured home or manufactured home component on the foundation system, and
includes supporting, blocking, leveling, securing, anchoring and proper
connection of air-conditioning, and minor adjustments.
      INSTALLER. Any person, including a retailer or manufacturer, who performs
installation functions on manufactured housing.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING or MANUFACTURED HOME. A HUD-code manufactured home
of a mobile home and collectively means and refers to both.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure that was constructed before 6-15-1976,
transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight
body feet or more in width or 40 feet or more in length, or, when erected on
site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis
designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-
conditioning and electrical systems.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single or multiple ownership,
which has been planned and improved for the placement of two or more
manufactured homes.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, corporation, association or
other group, however organized.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle as defined by 24 C.F.R. § 3282.8(g):
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
      REGISTRANT. Any person who has registered with the State Commission of
Licensing and Regulations and has been issued a certificate of registration as
manufactured housing installer.
   (B)   The definitions of “mobile home”, “HUD-code manufactured home” and
“manufactured housing” set forth in division (A) above are binding on all
persons in the city as a matter of law. A mobile home is not a HUD-code
manufactured home and a HUD-code manufactured home is not a mobile home for any
purpose under the law of the state.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.03  PROHIBITION OF MOBILE HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   The city prohibits the installation of a mobile home or recreational
vehicle for use or occupancy as a residential dwelling within its corporate
limits.
   (B)   The prohibition is prospective and shall not apply to a mobile home
previously legally permitted and used or occupied as a residential dwelling
within the city.
   (C)   Permits for the use and occupancy shall be granted by the city for the
replacement of a mobile home within its corporate limits with a HUD-code
manufactured home.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.04  PERMIT FOR MANUFACTURED HOME LOCATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate a manufactured home
within the limits of the city unless that person holds a valid permit issued by
the city in the name of that the person for the location of a manufactured
home, or the specific construction, alteration or extension proposed.
   (B)   Upon application, the installation of HUD-code manufactured homes
shall be permitted as residential dwelling in those areas determined
appropriately by the city, including subdivisions, planned unit developments,
single lots and rental communities and parks. An application to install a HUD-
code manufactured home for use and occupancy as a residential dwelling is
deemed approved and granted unless the city denies the application in writing
within 45 days from receipt of the application setting forth the reason.
   (C)   This section shall not affect the validity of any deed restriction
that is otherwise valid.
   (D)   All applications for permits shall be made upon standard forms
provided by the city and shall contain and/or be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Location, dimensions and legal description of the manufactured
home, lot, stand or site;
      (3)   Make, model, serial number and dimensions of the manufactured home;
      (4)   A site plan sketch showing setbacks and open space distances,
adjourning streets and locations of manufactured home; and
      (5)   Payment of a permit.
   (E)   When upon review of the application, the City Manger or his or her
designee is satisfied that the proposed plan meets the requirements of this
chapter, a permit shall be approved and a permit shall be issued.
   (F)   Any person whose application for a permit under this chapter has been
denied, may request a hearing on the matter under the procedure provided by §
152.06.
   (G)   A non-refundable fee of $125 per manufactured home placement within a
mobile home park or on a manufactured home lot.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05  STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Installation. All new and used HUD-code manufactured homes, and
rebuilt salvaged homes shall be installed in accordance with the State
Manufactured Housing Standards Act, Tex. Occup. Code Ch. 1201.
   (B)   Registration. A person may not perform any installation function on
manufactured housing in the city unless the person possess a valid installer’s
certificate of registration or a homeowner temporary installer’s certificate of
registration as required by the State Manufactured Standards Act (THHSA).
   (C)   Skirting. All manufactured homes shall be skirted within 30 days after
placement with manufactured vinyl skirting only.
   (D)   Manufactured home lots.
      (1)   Lot size. Minimum lot size for any manufactured home lot not within
a mobile home park shall be 12,500 square feet, with dimensions no less than 75
feet on the narrow dimension nor less than 100 feet on the long dimension;
except that, a lot having less area than herein required which was an official
“
      (2)   Setback lines. Minimum front setback lines of a manufactured home
lot parallel to street shall be 25 feet.
      (3)   Open space requirements. No manufactured home shall be closer than
ten feet to the back property line and 16 feet to any side property line.
      (4)   Drainage. The area of the manufactured home stand of space shall
provide adequate support and drainage for placement of the manufactured home.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011; Ord. passed 3-18-2014)
§ 152.06  NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice of violations, requirements of notice. Whenever it is
determined that there are grounds to believe that there has been a violation of
any provision of the subchapter, the city shall give notice of the alleged
violation to the owner or agent, as hereinafter provided. The notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time of at least 20 days for the performance of
the act it required;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent; provided that, the
notice or order shall be deemed to have been properly served upon the owner or
agent when a copy thereof has been sent by registered mail to his or her last
known address or when he or she has been served with the notice by any method
authorized or required by the laws of the state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Appeal from notice issued by the city.
      (1)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in
connection with the enforcement of any provision of this subchapter may request
and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the City Council; provided
that, the person shall file within 20 days after the day the notice was served,
in the office of the City Secretary a written petition requesting the hearing
and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds thereof. The filing of the
request for a hearing shall operate as a stay of the notice and of the
suspension.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the petition, the City Council shall set a time and
place for the hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof.
      (3)   At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be
heard and to show why the notice should be modified or withdrawn.
   (C)   Hearing order. After the hearing, the City Council shall issue an
order in writing sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the notice of violations,
which shall be served as provided in §
152.06. Upon failure to comply with an order by the City Council sustaining or
modifying the notice violation, the permit of the application affected by the
order shall be revoked and the applicant and or his representative shall be
deemed in violation of this subchapter and subject to the penal provision of
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.07  VARIANCE.
   (A)   The City Council may authorize a variance from these regulations when,
in its opinion, undue hardship will result from requiring strict compliance. In
granting a variance, the City Council shall prescribe only conditions that it
deems necessary to or desirable in the public interest. In making the findings
here below required, the City Council shall take into account the probable
effect of the variance upon traffic conditions and upon the public health,
safety and welfare. No variance shall be granted unless the City Council finds:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
applicant involved so that the strict application of the provisions of this
subchapter would place undue hardship upon the applicant;
      (2)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health or safety, or injurious to other property in the area;
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not have the effect of
diminishing the intent and purpose of this subchapter; or
      (4)   Prior to granting a variance, it shall be placed on the agenda of
at least one regularly scheduled City Council meetings, publicly read and
public input actively solicited. Roll call ballots will be required and the
detailed results of the roll call ballot will be recorded in the minutes of the
City Council meeting.
   (B)   The findings of the City Council together with the specific facts,
upon which the findings are based, shall be incorporated into the official
minutes of the City Council meeting at which the variance is granted.
   (C)   Variances may be granted only when in compliance with the legal intent
of this subchapter and the public health, safety and welfare may be secured and
substantial justice done. Pecuniary hardship to the applicant, standing alone,
shall not be deemed to constitute undue hardship.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.08  COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to all manufactured homes placed on lots,
parcels of land or in a mobile home park after the effective date of this
subchapter.
   (B)   All existing manufactured homes that are located within the city on
the effective date of this subchapter shall comply with §
152.05(A) and (B) or show evidence satisfactory to the city of adequate
anchoring, blocking and tie downs to prevent wind of flood damage to the
manufactured home and/or property.
   (C)   In addition to penal provisions provided in §
152.99, the city utilities shall not be provided to any manufactured home that
is not in compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   A copy of the certificate of installation and inspection report
provided to and/or by the Department shall be deemed proof of compliance with
the requirements of §
152.05(A) and (B).
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.09  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective from and after its passage and
publication.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
§ 152.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. Designated inspection authority of the city, or his, her
or its authorized representative.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. Certificate issued by the City Council for the use
of a building, structure and/or land, when it is determined by him or her that
the building, structure and/or land complies; with the provisions of all
applicable city codes, ordinances and regulations.
   CITY COUNCIL. City Council of the City of Sour Lake, Texas.
   COMMON ACCESS ROUTE/INTERNAL STREET. Private drive allowing principal means
of access to individual manufactured home or mobile home lots or auxiliary
buildings.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home that does not have a flush toilet
connected to an external water supply or septic tank.
   DRIVE WAY. Minor entranceway off the common access route within the park,
into all off-street parking area serving one or more manufactured homes or
mobile homes.
   HUD-CODE MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure constructed on or after 6-15-1976,
according to the rules of the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling
mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet of more in length,
or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems. The term does not
include a recreational vehicle, as that term is defined by 25 C.F.R. § 3281.8
(g).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Unified development of two or more manufactured home
spaces offered for rent or for lease arranged on a tract or adjoining tracts of
land under single entity ownership, meeting all requirements of this subchapter
and any applicable deed restrictions.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING or MANUFACTURED HOME. A HUD-code manufactured home or a
mobile home and collectively means and refers to both.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or structure so designated and constructed to
permit occupancy thereof as sleeping and for living quarter for one or more
persons or the conduct of any business or profession, occupation or trade (or
use as a selling or advertising device), and so designated that it is or may be
mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on highways or city streets,
propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power, excepting a device used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. MOBILE HOME may include one or
more units, which may be telescoped or joined into one unit.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Unified development of two or more mobile home spaces
offered for rent or for lease arranged on a tract or adjoining tracts of land
under single entity ownership, meeting all requirements of this subchapter and
any applicable deed restrictions.
   PARKING, STREET, OFF-STREET. A minimum space nine feet in width by 18 feet
in length, located within the boundary of a mobile home space or a manufactured
home space, or in common parking and storage area having unobstructed access to
an internal street.
   PERMIT. Written permit/certification issued by the City Council permitting
the construction, alteration or extension of a mobile home park, under the
provisions of this subchapter and regulations issued hereunder.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation.
   PLOT PLAN/SITE PLAN. Graphic presentation, drawn to scale, in a horizontal
plane, delineating the outlines of the land included in the plan and all
proposed use locations, accurately dimensioned, the relation of each use to
that adjoining and to the boundary of the property.
   SEWER CONNECTION. Connection consisting of pipes, fittings and appurtenances
from the drain outlet of a mobile home or manufactured home to the inlet of the
corresponding sewer service pipe of the sewage system serving the mobile home
space.
   SEWER SERVICE RISER PIPE. The portion of sewer service, which extends
vertically to the ground elevation and terminates at a mobile home or
manufactured home space.
   SPACE. Plot of ground within a mobile home park or manufactured home park
designated for accommodation of one mobile home or manufactured home, together
with the open space as required by this subchapter. Term includes LOT, STAND
and SITE.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.21  PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
alter, extend or expand any mobile home park or manufactured home park within
the limits of the city unless he or she holds a valid permit issued by the City
Council in the name of the person for the specific construction, alternation or
extension proposed.
   (B)   Application requirement. All application for permits shall be made
upon standard forms provided by the City Council and shall contain the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Location and legal description of mobile home park; and
      (3)   To this application shall be attached five copies of a site plan,
at a minimum scale of one inch equals 200 feet for sites of 30 acres or more
and at a minimum scale of one inch equals 100 feet for sites under 30 acres.
The site plan shall be made to comply with standards established hereunder.
   (C)   Site plan. The site plan shall consist of a plat completed by a
certified surveyor to comply with standards established under §
152.24 and shall show the following:
      (1)   Name, address, fee owner and record owner of proposed or existing
mobile home park;
      (2)   Name of subdivision where the park is located;
      (3)   Name of adjacent public streets and roads;
      (4)   Contour lines at two-foot intervals;
      (5)   Locations and dimensions of all mobile home spaces, utility
easements, drives, recreation areas, streets and sidewalks. Each mobile home
space shall be numbered;
      (6)   Density in units per gross acre;
      (7)   Area and dimensions of site;
      (8)   Areas defined for waste containers, and method of disposal of
garbage and refuse;
      (9)   Water and sewer plans must be submitted showing the following:
         (a)   Sewer line locations, grades and sizes; and
         (b)   Water line locations and sizes and source of water supply.
      (10)   Paving and drainage plans must show the directions and calculated
quantities of runoff and the proposed specifications for streets.
   (D)   Permit fee. All applications to the Building Official shall be
accompanied by a fee of $1,000.
   (E)   Issuance of permit. When upon review of the application, the City
Council is satisfied that the proposed plan meets the requirements of law, a
permit shall be issued.
   (F)   Denial of permit/hearing. Any person, whose application for a permit
under this subchapter has been denied, may request in writing a rehearing on
the matter and offer additional evidence if desired.
   (G)   Variances.
      (1)   Permits may be authorized by the City Council to allow a variance
from these regulations when, in the City Council’s opinion, undue hardship will
result from strict compliance.
      (2)   In granting a variance for a permit the City Council shall
prescribe only conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable in the public
interest.
      (3)   No variance for a permit shall be granted unless the City Council
finds:
         (a)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property involved so that strict application of the provisions of this
subchapter would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of this property;
         (b)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and employment of
a substantial property right of the applicant;
         (c)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety or welfare, or be injurious to other property in the
area; and
         (d)   Variances may be granted only when in harmony with the general
purpose and intent of this subchapter so that the public health, safety and
welfare may be served and substantial justice done. Pecuniary hardship to the
applicant, standing alone shall not be deemed to constitute undue hardship.
Conditions of the variance shall be noted on the permit when granted. Failure
of the park owner to maintain the specific conditions called for in a variance
shall be considered a violation of this subchapter and shall be subject to the
penal provisions of §
152.99.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.22  INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any duly authorized inspector of the city shall be permitted to make
reasonable inspections of any mobile home park or manufactured home park to
determine compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   City utilities will be connected after initial inspection has been
completed and passed.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.23  NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the Council that there has
been a violation of any provision of this subchapter, the City Council shall
give notice of the alleged violation to the permittee or agent, as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Shall include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time of not less than 30 days, nor more than one
year, based upon the nature and severity of the violation and having due regard
for the safety and protection of the community, for the performance for the act
it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent; provided that, the
notice or order shall be deemed to have been properly served upon the owner or
agent when a copy thereof has been sent by mail to his or her last known
address, or when he or she has been served with the notice by any method
authorized or required by the laws of the state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action when if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. If the violation is not
remedied in accordance and a breach of the subchapter continues, then the
Council may revoke any permits issued in addition to any punishment provided in
§
152.99.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.24  MOBILE HOME PARK STANDARDS OR MANUFACTURED HOME PARK STANDARDS.
   Any mobile home park constructed after adoption of this subchapter, and any
extension and/or addition to an existing mobile home park or manufactured home
park in the city shall be done in compliance with the following site
requirements.
   (A)   Density and site requirements.
      (1)   Density. A mobile home park shall have no more than six spaces per
acre. The areas of separate uses and structure not dedicated exclusively to the
operation of the park, but contained within the park boundaries shall be
subtracted from the total area for density calculation and meet the requirement
hereof.
      (2)   Basic mobile home minimum site requirement.
         (a)   Height regulations.
            1.   The height limit for any structure intended for occupancy in
the mobile home park shall be 35 feet.
            2.   The average height of the mobile home frame above ground
elevation, measured at 90 degrees to the frame, shall not exceed four feet from
the top of the pad.
         (b)   Spacing regulation. Mobile homes or manufactured homes shall be
located no closer than 16 feet from either exterior side wall to the closest
exterior side wall of the nearest mobile home and 20 feet from the front or
rear exterior wall of a mobile home to the closest wall of the adjacent mobile
home.
         (c)   Drainage. The ground surface in all parts of a park shall drain
surface water in a safe, efficient manner.
         (d)   Design and location of storage facilities. Storage facilities
with a minimum measurement of 48 square feet per mobile home space, shall be
provided on the space. Storage facilities shall be faced with a durable, fire
resistant material. Storage outside the perimeter walls of the mobile home
shall be permitted only if in the facilities. No storage shall be permitted
under a mobile home or manufactured home.
         (e)   Tie downs. Tie downs on all mobile homes or manufactured homes
shall comply with the tie downs standards of the Standard Building Code,
Appendix H, and its future updates.
         (f)   Skirting required. All mobile homes or manufactured homes shall
be skirted with vinyl, masonry, wood or metal material. Vinyl or metal siding
skirting shall be attached securely to the mobile home and properly anchored to
the ground. Wood or metal materials shall have a stained or painted finish.
      (3)   Access, traffic circulation, parking.
         (a)   Internal streets shall be privately owned, built and maintained.
Street shall be designed for safe and convenient access to all spaces and
facilities for common use of park residents.
         (b)   All internal streets shall be constructed to specification set
by the City Council and shall be maintained by the owner. The streets shall be
constructed with a smooth, hard and dense surface, which shall be durable and
well drained under normal use and weather conditions.
      (4)   Internal street dimensions; parking.
         (a)   Internal streets shall be minimum width of 22 feet if off-street
parking is provided at the rate of two parking places per mobile home space.
         (b)   Parking spaces shall be constructed of shell, concrete asphalt
or rock and sand prepared.
         (c)   Internal streets shall permit unobstructed access to within 100
feet of any portion of each mobile home or manufactured home.
      (5)   Names and numbers. Within each mobile home park or manufactured
home park, streets shall be named, and mobile homes or manufactured homes
numbered. Park signs and numbers shall be of standard size and placement to
facilitate location by emergency vehicles. Interior street shall intersect
adjoining public streets at approximately 90 degrees and at locations which
will eliminate or reduce interference with traffic on public streets.
   (C)   Street lighting. Street lighting within the mobile home park or
manufactured home park shall be provided by one lamp of at least 75 watts
(mercury vapor) or 100 watts (high pressure sodium) per one-half acre of mobile
home park or manufactured home park area.
   (D)   Dependent mobile home. No dependant mobile home shall be allowed in a
mobile home park or manufactured home park within the city limits unless
separate shower and toilet facilities for men and women are available and are
within 200 feet of any dependant mobile home.
   (E)   Fire safety standards.
      (1)   The storage, handling and use of liquefied petroleum gases and
flammable liquids shall be done in compliance with applicable city ordinance
and state statutes.
      (2)   Access to mobile home or manufactured home for firefighting
approaches to all mobile homes or manufactured homes shall be kept clear for
emergency vehicles.
      (3)   The mobile home park or manufactured home park owner or agent shall
provide an adequate system of collection and safe disposal of rubbish.
   (F)   Water supply.
      (1)   All approved water supply for domestic use and fire protection
purposes shall be supplied to meet the requirement of the mobile home park or
manufactured home park.
      (2)   All plumbing shall be in accordance with applicable ordinances of
the city.
   (G)   Sewage disposal. From and after the effective date of this subchapter,
the following shall apply:
      (1)   Waste from all toilets, lavatories, sinks and showers in mobile
home parks shall be discharged into a public sewer or private system approved
by the City Council.
      (2)   All plumbing shall comply with applicable Plumbing Codes.
      (3)   Each mobile home or manufactured home stand shall have a sewer
riser pipe of at least four inches, which shall be, capped when not in use.
   (H)   Electrical and telephone distribution system. From and after the
effective date of this subchapter, the electrical distribution system shall
comply with applicable electrical codes and other applicable laws of the state.
   (I)   Bathroom, laundry. All rooms containing bathroom or laundry facilities
shall have fire-resistant walls extending to the ceiling between male and
female sanitary facilities. Walls and partitions around showers, tubs,
lavatories and other plumbing fixtures shall be constructed of dense, non-
absorbent, waterproof materials or covered with moisture resistant materials.
   (J)   Refuse and garbage. Solid waste shall be stored in fly proof,
waterproof containers, which shall be emptied regularly and maintained in a
usable, sanitary condition and the collection and disposal of said refuse and
garbage shall be so conducted as to create no health hazard.
   (K)   Insect and rodent control and sanitation. Grounds, buildings and
structure shall be maintained in a sanitary, pest free condition.
   (L)   Registry.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the owner to keep a register of park
occupancy, which shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Name and address of owner and occupant;
         (b)   The make, model, serial number, year and dimensions of all
mobile homes;
         (c)   The date of arrival and departure of each mobile home; and
         (d)   The space number occupied by each mobile home.
      (2)   The park operator shall submit the park register to the City
Council January 1 each year and shall make the register available to any
authorized city official upon reasonable request. Upon gaining knowledge of a
departure of any mobile home, the park operator shall notify the County Tax
Collector. Failure to do so shall place the operator in violation of this
subchapter.
   (M)   Requirements to be met. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to
ensure that all requirements of this subchapter are met and maintained. Any
mobile home park that is found to be in violation of any provision of this
subchapter shall be notified in writing by the City Council in accordance with
§
152.23.
   (N)   Non-conforming mobile home parks.
      (1)   Any mobile home park or manufactured home park in use and/or
existence on the effective date of this subchapter, and not complying with all
applicable provisions of this subchapter shall be considered a non-conforming
mobile home park or manufactured home park. The non-conforming mobile home
parks or manufactured home park shall be required to submit a site plan in
accordance herewith showing the development and layout of the park as existing
on the adoption date of this subchapter and shall be submitted within six
months of that adoption date, applying to the four existing mobile home parks
within the city.
      (2)   Any land area added to, or mobile home spaces developed within a
non-conforming mobile home park shall conform to all requirements of this
subchapter.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this subchapter, all
non-conforming mobile home parks shall comply with the terms hereof within six
years of the effective date of this subchapter.
   (O)   Miscellaneous requirements.
      (1)   Responsibilities of the park owner.
         (a)   All responsibilities set out elsewhere in this subchapter shall
apply.
         (b)   The owner or agent shall operate the park in compliance with
this and other applicable ordinances and shall provide adequate supervision to
maintain the park and all facilities in good repair, and in clean and sanitary
condition.
         (c)   The owner or agent shall notify park occupants of all applicable
provisions of this subchapter and inform them of their duties and
responsibilities under this subchapter.
      (2)   Responsibilities of park occupants.
         (a)   All responsibilities of occupants set out elsewhere in this
subchapter shall apply.
         (b)   The park occupant shall comply with all requirements of this
subchapter.
         (c)   The park occupant shall be responsible for proper placement of
his or her mobile home or manufactured home in its mobile home or manufactured
home stand placement of his or her mobile home or manufactured home in its
stand and proper installation of all utility connections in accordance with the
instructions of the park management.
         (d)   The use of space immediately beneath a mobile home or
manufactured home for storage shall not be permitted.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.25  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective immediately upon its passage, approval
and publication.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.40  SETBACK DISTANCES.
   (A)   Findings incorporated. The findings set forth above are incorporated
into the body of this section as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PROHIBIT THE LOCATION OR CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES, BUILDINGS, MANUFACTURED
HOMES, MOBILE HOMES, AND OTHER STRUCTURES. Unless in compliance with the
setback distances as set forth herein. That prior to providing any city
service, the City Inspector shall verify that setback distances have been
complied with as herein set forth.
      SETBACK. The established distance that a house, building, manufactured
home, mobile home or other structure must be from adjacent property line,
alleys or street right-of-way.
   (C)   Enforcement. Prior to the location or construction of any house,
building, manufactured home, mobile home and other structure and the subsequent
connection of any public utility or other city service, a City Inspector shall
examine and inspect the property of the requesting party to verify that the
proper setback distance is obtainable and that the requesting party by locating
or constructing the house, building, manufactured home, mobile home and other
structure in compliance with the setback distances as established by city
ordinance and that the compliance shall again be verified prior to the initial
connection or reconnection of a public utility or city service.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon its passage and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 2010-, passed 11-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
152.01 through
152.09 within the corporate limits of the city shall be charged with a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be fined an amount not to exceed $200 for
each day the violation remains uncorrected. Prosecution or conviction under
this provision shall never be a bar to any other remedy or relief for
violations of §§
152.01 through
152.09.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
152.20 through
152.25 or any portion thereof shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $1, nor more than $500, and each
day that the violation continues shall be considered a separate offense and
punishable accordingly.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
152.40 or any portion thereof shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined a sum of not less than $1, nor more than $500,
and each day that the violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense and punishable accordingly. The city retains all legal rights and
remedies available to it pursuant to local, state and federal law.
(Ord. 2010-, passed 11-15-2011; Ord. passed 11-15-2011)
CHAPTER 153:  STORM WATER DRAINAGE
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Approving authority review and approval
   
153.03   Notice
   
153.04   Effective date
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The city or its duly authorized representative.
   CITY. The City of Sour Lake, Texas, or any authorized person acting in its
behalf.
   PERSON. Any individual and includes any corporation, organization,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, partnership, association or
other legal entity.
   STORM SEWER. A public sewer which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage, and into which domestic wastewater or industrial wastes are not
intentionally passed.
   STORM WATER. Rainfall or any other forms of precipitation.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or human-made channel in which a flow of water
occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1983)
§ 153.02  APPROVING AUTHORITY REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   (1)   If a revision is requested or necessitated by blockage, the
approving authority shall review and approve design and installation of drain
pipe/tile or conduit for proper drainage within the city storm sewer system.
      (2)   Minimum size no less than 14".
   (B)   The design and installation of drainage pipe/tile or conduit must
conform to all applicable statutes, codes, ordinances, other laws and continued
future projections.
   (C)   Any person requesting changes in the existing drainage system or
creating a blockage of the system, shall be responsible at their expense for
the providing of drainage tiles/pipe or conduit approved by the city (drainage
system shall be composed of the storm sewer and any other watercourse within
the city).
   (D)   All “APPROVAL” shall be on a permit provided by the city, signed by
the City Manager or authorized agent designating the following:
      (1)   Type of tile/pipe or conduit approved by city;
      (2)   Size of tile/pipe or conduit;
      (3)   Place of installation for tile/pipe or conduit;
      (4)   Manner of installation:
         (a)   Depth; and
         (b)   Location within storm sewer or watercourse.
      (5)   Quantity of tile/pipe or conduit.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1983)
§ 153.03  NOTICE.
   The city shall serve persons in violation of this chapter with written
notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for satisfactory compliance.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1983)
§ 153.04  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval, recording and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1983)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who continues in violation of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine of not more than $200
for each act or violation and for each day of violation.
   (B)   In addition to proceeding under authority of division (A) above, the
city is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies to which it is
entitled under authority of statutes or other ordinances.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1983)
CHAPTER 154:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
154.01   Declaration
   
154.02   Authority
   
154.03   Purpose
   
154.04   Definitions
   
154.05   Enforcement
   
154.06   Variances
   
154.07   Preliminary conference
   
154.08   Preliminary plat and accompanying data
   
154.09   Final plat
   
154.10   Standards and specifications
   
154.11   Where subdivision is unit of a larger tract
   
154.12   Guarantee of performance
   
154.13   Effective date
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01  DECLARATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, association, firm, corporation
or any other entity to subdivide any tract of land into two or more parts
within the jurisdiction of the city without first having plat of the
subdivision approved by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.02  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority of the Constitution and laws of
the state, including particularly Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code Ch. 212 and the
provisions of Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code Ch. 43.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)
§ 154.03  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly, safe and
healthful development of the area within the city and within the area
surrounding the city and to promote the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the community.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)
§ 154.04  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLEY. A minor public right-of-way, not intended to provide the primary
means of access to abutting lots, which is used primarily for vehicular service
access to the back or sides of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line within a property defining the minimum
horizontal distance between a building and the adjacent street line.
      CITY. The City of Sour Lake, Texas.
      COMMITTEE. The Planning Committee of the city.
      CROSSWALK WAY. A public right-of-way between property lines which
provided pedestrian circulation.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A street having but one outlet to another street, and
terminated on the opposite end by a vehicular turn-around.
      DEADEND STREET. A street, other than a cul-de-sac, with only one outlet.
      ENGINEER. A person duly authorized under the provisions of the State
Engineering Registration Act, as heretofore or hereafter amended, to practice
the profession of engineering.
      LOT. An undivided tract or parcel of land having frontage, on a public
street and which is, or in the future, may be offered for sale, conveyance,
transfer or improvement; which is designated as a distinct and separate tract,
and which is identified by a tract or lot number or symbol in a duly approved
subdivision plat which has been properly filed on record.
      PAVEMENT WIDTH. The portion of a street available for vehicular traffic
where curbs are laid. PAVEMENT WIDTH is the portion between the face of curbs.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, firm, corporation, governmental
agency or political subdivision.
      SHALL, MAY. The word “shall” is always mandatory. The word “may” is
merely directory.
      STREET. A public right-of-way, however designated, which provides
vehicular access to adjacent land.
         (a)   ARTERIAL STREET. Primarily provides vehicular circulation to
various sections of the city.
         (b)   COLLECTOR STREET. Primarily provides circulation within
neighborhoods, to carry traffic from minor streets to arterial streets, or to
carry traffic through or adjacent to commercial or industrial area.
         (c)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A street which is parallel to and
adjacent to an arterial street, primarily provides access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
         (d)   MINOR STREET. One used primarily for access to abutting
residential property.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person or any agent thereof, dividing or proposing to
divide land so as to constitute a subdivision as that term is defined herein.
In any event, the term SUBDIVIDER shall be restricted to include only the
owner, equitable owner or authorized agent of the owner or equitable owner, of
land sought to be subdivided.
      SUBDIVISION. A division of any tract of land situated within the
corporate limits, or within one mile of the limits, in two or more parts for
the purpose of laying out any subdivision of any tract of land or any addition
of any town or city, or for laying out suburban lots or building lots, or any
lots, and streets, alleys or parts or other portions intended for public use or
the use of purchasers, renters or owners of lots fronting thereon or adjacent
thereto. SUBDIVISION includes re-subdivision, but it does not include the
division of land for agricultural purposes in parcels or tracts of five acres
or more and not involving any new street, alley or easement of access.
      SURVEYOR. A licensed state land surveyor or a registered public surveyor,
as authorized by state statute to practice the profession of surveying.
      UTILITY EASEMENT. An interest in land granted to the city, to the public
generally and/or to private utility corporation, for installing or maintaining
utilities across, over or under private land, together with the right to enter
thereon with machinery and vehicles necessary for the maintenance of the
utilities.
   (B)   Any office referred to in this chapter by title means the person
employed or appointed by the city in that position, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   (C)   Definitions not expressly prescribed herein are to be construed in
accordance with customary usage in municipal planning and engineering
practices.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)
§ 154.05  ENFORCEMENT.
   In behalf of the city, the City Attorney shall, when directed by the Council
institute appropriate action in a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce
the provisions of this chapter or the standards referred, to herein with
respect to any violation thereof which occurs within the city, within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city as the jurisdiction as determined
under the Municipal Annexation Act, or within any area subject to all or a part
of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)
§ 154.06  VARIANCES.
   The City Council may authorize a variance from these regulations when, in
its opinion, undue hardship will result from requiring, strict compliance. In
granting a variance, the Council shall prescribe only conditions that it deems
necessary to or desirable in the public interest. In making the findings
hereinbelow required, the Council shall take into account the nature of the
proposed use of the land involved, existing uses of land in the vicinity, the
number of persons who will reside or work in the proposed subdivision, and the
probable effect of the variance upon traffic conditions and upon the public
health, safety, convenience and welfare in the vicinity. No variance shall be
granted unless the Council finds:
   (A)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the land
involved so that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
   (B)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the applicant;
   (C)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare, or injurious to other property in the area;
   (D)   The granting of the variance will not have the effect of preventing
the orderly subdivision of other land in the area in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The findings of the Council together with the
specific facts upon which the findings are based, shall be incorporated into
the official minutes of the Council meeting at which the variance is granted.
Variances may be granted only when in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this chapter so that the public health, safety and welfare may be
secured and substantial justice done. Pecuniary hardship to the subdivider,
standing alone, shall not be deemed to constitute undue hardship; and
   (E)   Public hearing shall be required in addressing request for variances.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)
§ 154.07  PRELIMINARY CONFERENCE.
   Prior to the official filing of a preliminary plat, the subdivider should
consult with and present a proposed plan of subdivision to the Chairperson or
other members of the Planning Committee for comments and advice on the
procedures, specifications and standards required by the city for the
subdivision of land.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)
§ 154.08  PRELIMINARY PLAT AND ACCOMPANYING DATA.
   (A)   General. The subdivider shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat
by a surveyor or engineer in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Time for filing and copies required. The subdivider shall file eight
blue or black line copies of the plat together with the original with the City
Secretary at least ten days prior to the date at which formal application for
the preliminary plat approval is made to the Council.
   (C)   Filing fees. The plat shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $15 per
plat, plus $1 per lot. The fee shall be $5 per acre for multiple dwelling
areas, commercial or industrial districts, and other areas not subdivided into
lots. No action by the Council shall be valid until the filing fee has been
paid. This fee shall not be refunded should the subdivider fail to make formal
application for preliminary plat approval should the plat be disapproved.
   (D)   Formal application. Formal application for preliminary plat approval
shall be made by the subdivider in writing to the Council at an official
meeting. This shall be accompanied by proof of approval of the plat by the City
Council and County Commissioners’ Court, if applicable.
   (E)   Form and content. The plat shall be drawn on sheets 24 inches wide and
36 inches long, with a binding margin of not less than two inches on the left
side of the sheet and margins on the other three sides of not less than one
inch. The plat shall be drawn to a scale of 100 feet to one inch. When more
than one sheet is necessary to accommodate the entire area, an index sheet
showing the entire subdivision at an appropriate scale shall be attached to the
plat. The plat shall show the following:
      (1)   Names and addresses of the subdivider, record owner, engineer and/
or surveyor;
      (2)   Proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not have the same
spelling as or be pronounced similar to the name of any other subdivision
located with the city or within one mile of the city;
      (3)   Names of contiguous subdivisions and the owners of contiguous
parcels of unsubdivided land, landowners of all tracts of land within 200 feet
and, an indication of whether or nor contiguous properties are platted;
      (4)   Description, by metes and bounds, of the subdivision;
      (5)   Primary control points or descriptions, and ties to the control
points to which all dimensions, angles, bearings, block numbers and similar
date shall be referred;
      (6)   Subdivision boundary lines, indicated by heavy lines and the
computed acreage of the subdivision;
      (7)   Existing sites as follows:
         (a)   The exact location, dimensions, name and description of all
existing or recorded streets, alleys, reservations, easements or other public
rights-of-way within the subdivision, intersecting or contiguous with its
boundaries or forming the boundaries;
         (b)   The exact location, dimensions, description and name of all
existing or recorded residential lots, parks, public areas, permanent
structures and other sites within or contiguous with the subdivision; and
         (c)   The exact location, dimensions, description and flow line of
existing water courses and drainage structures within the subdivision or on
contiguous tracts.
      (8)   The exact location, dimensions, description and name of all
proposed streets, alleys, parks, other public areas, reservations, easements or
other rights-of-way, blocks, lots and other sites within the subdivision;
      (9)   A preliminary plan of the drainage system with grade, pipe size and
location of outlet;
      (10)   A preliminary plan for proposed fills or other structure-elevating
techniques, levees, channel modifications, seawalls and other methods to
overcome flood or erosion-related hazards;
      (11)   Date of preparation, scale of plat and north arrow;
      (12)   Topographical information shall include contour basis of five
vertical feet in terrain with 2% or more, and on a basis of two lines on a
slope of two vertical feet in terrain with a slope of less than 2%;
      (13)   A number or letter to identify each lot or site and each block;
      (14)   Front building setback lines on all lots and sites; side yard
building setback lines at street intersections and crosswalk ways;
      (15)   Location of city limits line, the outer border of the city’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction, and zoning district boundaries, if they traverse
the subdivision, form part of the boundary of the subdivision, or are
contiguous to the boundary; and
      (16)   Vicinity sketch or map at a scale of not more than 500 feet to an
inch which shall show existing subdivisions, streets, easements, rights-of-way,
parks and public facilities in the vicinity, the general drainage plan and
ultimate destination of water, and possible storm sewer, water, gas, electric
and sanitary sewer connections by arrows.
   (F)   Processing of preliminary plat.
      (1)   Within 30 days after the preliminary plat is formally filed, the
Council shall conditionally approve or disapprove the plat or conditionally
approve it with modifications.
      (2)   Conditional approval of a preliminary plat by the Council shall be
deemed an expression of approval of the layout submitted on the preliminary
plat as a guide to the installation of streets, water, sewer and other required
improvements and utilities and to the preparation of the final or record plat.
Conditional approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute automatic
approval of the final plat.
      (3)   Conditional approval of a preliminary plat shall be effective for
two years unless reviewed by the Council in the light of new or significant
information which would necessitate a revision of the preliminary plat. If the
Council should deem changes in a preliminary plat as necessary, it shall so
inform in writing the subdivider.
      (4)   If no development has occurred which would affect the proposed
plat, after two years of effective approval, the Council may, upon the
application of the subdivider, extend the approval one year.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)
§ 154.09  FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Form and content.
      (1)   The final plat and accompanying data shall conform to the
preliminary plat as conditionally approved by the Council incorporating any and
all changes, modifications, alterations, corrections and conditions imposed by
the Council.
      (2)   The final plat shall be blue or black line sheets, 24 inches wide
and 36 inches in length. On the left, a margin of two inches, and margins of
not less than one inch on the other three sides. The plat shall be drawn at a
scale of 100 feet to one inch. Where more than one sheet is necessary to
accommodate the entire area, an index sheet showing the entire subdivision at
an appropriate scale shall be attached to the plat.
      (3)   The final plat shall be submitted in a number as is required by the
Council and shall contain all of the features required for preliminary plats in
§
154.08, and it shall be accompanied by site improvement data bearing the seal
of an engineer and detailed cost estimates.
      (4)   The final plat and the accompanying site improvement data and
detailed cost estimates shall be approved by the Council.
      (5)   In addition to the various requirements for the preliminary plat,
the final plat shall also include the following:
         (a)   The exact location, dimensions, name and description of all
existing or recorded streets, alleys, reservations, easements or other public
rights-of-way within the subdivision, intersecting or contiguous with its
boundary or forming the boundary, with accurate dimensions, bearing or
deflecting angles and radii, area and central angle, degree of curvature,
tangent distance and length of all curves where appropriate; and
         (b)   The exact location, dimensions, description and name of all
proposed streets, alleys, drainage structures, parks, other public areas,
reservations, easements or other rights-of-way, blocks, lots and other sites
within the subdivision with accurate dimensions, bearing or deflecting angles
with radii area and central angles, degree of curvature, tangent distance and
length of all curves where appropriate.
      (6)   The final plat shall also include the following:
         (a)   Owner’s acknowledgment of the dedication to public use of all
streets, alleys, parks and other public places shown on the final plat;
         (b)   The certification of the Council that the final plat conforms to
all requirements of the subdivision regulations of the city;
         (c)   The certification of the surveyor responsible for surveying the
subdivision area, attesting to its accuracy; and
         (d)   A certification by the engineer responsible for the preparation
of the final plat and supporting data, attesting to its accuracy.
   (B)   Processing of final plat.
      (1)   If desired by the subdivider and approved by the Council, the final
plat may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which he
or she proposes to record and develop. However, the portion shall conform to
all the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   As soon as practical after the subdivider is notified of the
approval of the preliminary plat, he or she or his or her engineer shall submit
to the Council at an official meeting the final plat of the subdivision or
portion thereof. See division (B)(4) below.
      (3)   No final plat will be considered unless a preliminary plat has been
submitted. However, if an approved plat has been duly recorded and the
subdivider wishes to increase the size of the lots by combining two or more
lots or by combining one lot with a portion of the adjacent lot in a manner
that no portion of a lot remains smaller than the original lots, no preliminary
plat will be necessary.
      (4)   A final plat of an approved preliminary plat or a portion, thereof,
shall be submitted to the Council within two years of the date of approval of
preliminary plat, otherwise the approval of the Council shall become null and
void, unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the Council.
      (5)   When the final plat is filed with the Council for approval, it
shall be accompanied by the following fees:
         (a)   Fifteen dollars per plat, plus $1 per lot; and
         (b)   For multiple dwelling areas, commercial and/or industrial
districts and other areas not subdivided into lots, the fee shall be $5 per
acre.
      (6)   Within 30 days after the final plat is formally filed, the Council
shall approve or disapprove the plat. If the final plat is disapproved, the
Council shall inform the subdivider in writing of the reasons at the time the
action is taken.
      (7)   After the final plat has been finally approved and the subdivider
has constructed all the required improvements and the improvements have been
approved, and a maintenance bond filed as hereinafter provided; or after the
plat has been finally approved and the subdivider has filed the security and
maintenance bond hereinafter provided, the Council shall authorize the
recording of the final plat with the County Clerk or clerks in the county in
which the subdivision lies.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)
§ 154.10  STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   No preliminary or final plat shall be approved by the Council, and no
completed improvements shall be accepted by the inspector unless they conform
to the following standards and specifications.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Conformity with Comprehensive Plan. The subdivision shall conform
to the Comprehensive Plan of the city and the parts thereof, as amended.
      (2)   Provision for future subdivisions. If a tract is subdivided into
parcels larger than ordinary building lots, the parcels shall be arranged to
allow the opening of future streets.
      (3)   Reserve strips prohibited. There shall be no reserve strips
controlling access to land dedicated or intended to be dedicated to public use.
   (B)   Streets.
      (1)   Street layout. Adequate streets shall be provided by the subdivider
and the arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of each shall
conform to the Comprehensive Plan of the City and shall be considered in their
relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to
public safety and convenience, and in their appropriate relationship to the
proposed uses of land to be served by the streets. The street layout shall be
devised for the most advantageous development of the entire neighborhood.
      (2)   Relation to adjoining street system. Where necessary to the
neighborhood pattern, existing streets in adjoining areas shall be continued,
and shall be at least as wide as the existing streets and in alignment
therewith.
      (3)   Projection of streets. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided,
the arrangement of streets in the subdivision shall make provision for the
proper projection of streets into the unsubdivided area.
      (4)   Street jogs. Whenever possible, street jogs with centerline offsets
of less than 60 feet shall be avoided.
      (5)   Half-streets or adjacent streets. In the case of collector, minor
or marginal access streets, no new half-streets shall be platted.
      (6)   Street intersections. Street intersections shall be as nearly at
right angles as practicable, giving due regard to terrain and topography.
      (7)   Deadend streets. Deadend streets shall be prohibited except as
short stubs to permit future expansion.
      (8)   Cul-de-sacs. In general, cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 200 feet in
length, and shall have a turnaround of not less than 50 feet in diameter in
residential areas, and not less than 75 feet in diameter in commercial and
industrial areas.
      (9)   Marginal access streets. Where a subdivision has frontage on an
arterial street, there shall be provided a marginal access street on both sides
or on the subdivision side of the arterial street, if the arterial street
borders the subdivision, unless the adjacent lots back up to the arterial
street, or unless the Council determines that the marginal access streets are
not desirable under the facts of a particular case for adequate protection of
the lots and separation of through and local traffic.
      (10)   Streets on Comprehensive Plan. Where a subdivision embraces a
street as shown on the Comprehensive Plan of the city, the street shall be
platted in the location and of the width indicated by the Comprehensive Plan.
      (11)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall be laid out so as to discourage
their use by through traffic.
      (12)   Pavement widths and rights-of-way. Pavement widths and rights-of-
way shall conform to standard s adopted by County Commissioner’s Court.
      (13)   Street names. Names of new streets shall not duplicate or cause
confusion with the names of existing streets, unless the new streets are a
continuation of or in alignment with existing streets, in which case names of
existing streets shall be used.
      (14)   Street lights. Street lights shall be installed by the subdivider
at all locations as specified by the Council.
      (15)   Street signs. Street signs shall be installed by the subdivider at
all intersections within or abutting the subdivision. The signs shall be of a
type approved by the city and shall be installed in accordance with standards
of the city.
      (16)   Street construction. All streets in a subdivision shall be
constructed according to specifications identical to those required of all
county streets or roads by Commissioner’s Court of the county.
   (C)   Water installations. All subdivisions shall be provided with water
supply and water distribution systems approved by the City Council.
   (D)   Sewers. All subdivisions shall be provided with a sewage disposal
system approved by the City Council.
   (E)   Building setback line. Minimum front building setback line of at least
30 feet shall be required.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)
§ 154.11  WHERE SUBDIVISION IS UNIT OF A LARGER TRACT.
   (A)   Where the proposed subdivision constitutes a unit of a larger tract
owned by the subdivider, which is intended to be subsequently used as
additional units of the same subdivision, the preliminary and final plats shall
be accompanied by a layout of the entire area, showing the tentative proposed
layout of streets, blocks, drainage, water, sewage and other improvements for
the areas. The overall layout, if approved by the Council, shall be attached to
and filed with a copy of the approved subdivision plat in the permanent files
of the Planning Director, Therefore, plats of subsequent units of the
subdivision shall conform to the approved overall layout, unless changed by the
Council.
   (B)   However, except where the subdivider agrees to the change, the Council
may change the approved overall layout only when the Council finds:
      (1)   Adherence to the previously approved overall layout will hinder the
orderly subdivision of other land in the area in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter; or
      (2)   Adherence to the previously approved overall layout will be
detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare, or will be injurious to
other property in the area.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)
§ 154.12  GUARANTEE OF PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   If under §
154.09(B)(6)(f), the subdivider chooses to construct the required improvements
prior to recordation of the final plat, all construction shall be inspected
while in progress by the appropriate city department, and must be approved upon
completion by the City Inspector. A certificate by the officer stating that the
construction conforms to the specifications and standards contained in or
referred to herein must be presented to the Council prior to approval of the
final plat. Prior to the approval, the subdivider shall file with the Council a
bond, executed by a surety company holding a license to do business in the
state, and acceptable to the Council in an amount equal to 100% of the cost of
the improvements required, as estimated by an engineer, conditioned that the
subdivider will maintain the improvements in good condition for a period of one
year after approval of the final plat. The bond shall be approved as to form
and legality by the City Attorney.
   (B)   If under §
154.09(B), the subdivider chooses to file security and a maintenance bond in
lieu of completing construction prior to final plat approval, he or she may
utilize either of the following methods of posting security. If the subdivider
chooses to file security, the plat shall not be approved unless the subdivider
has done one of the following:
      (1)   Has filed with the Council, a bond executed by a surety company
holding a license to do business in the state, and acceptable to the Council,
in an amount equal to the cost of the improvements required by this chapter as
estimated by an engineer, conditioned that the subdivider will complete the
improvement within two years after approval of the plat, the bond to be
approved as to form and legality by the City Attorney; or
      (2)   Has placed on deposit in a bank or trust company selected by the
subdivider and approved by the Council, in a trust account a sum of money equal
to the estimated cost of all site improvements required by this chapter. The
estimated cost of the improvements shall be the cost as estimated by an
engineer. Selection of the trustee shall be subject to approval by the Council,
and the trust agreement shall be approved as to form and legality by the City
Attorney.
   (C)   If either type of security is filed by the subdivider under division
(B) above, the filing of the security shall be accompanied by a bond executed
by a surety company holding a license to do business in the state, and
acceptable to the Commission, in an amount equal to 100% of the cost of the
improvements required as estimated by the Director of Public Works, conditioned
that the subdivider will maintain the improvements in good condition for a
period of one year after final acceptance of the completed construction by the
City Inspector, as provided in division (D) below. The bond shall be approved
as to form and legality by the City Attorney.
   (D)   If either type of security is filed by the subdivider under division
(C) above, the City Inspector shall inspect the construction of the
improvements while in progress, and he or she shall inspect the improvements
upon completion of construction. After final inspection, he or she shall notify
the subdivider and the City Attorney in writing as to his or her acceptance or
rejection of the construction. He or she shall reject the construction only if
it fails to comply with the standards and specifications contained or referred
to herein. If he or she rejects the construction, the City Attorney shall, on
direction of the Council, proceed to enforce the guarantees provided in this
chapter.
   (E)   Where good cause exists, the Council may extend the period of time,
for completion under division (B) above for an additional period of time not to
exceed six months if the subdivider has not completed the required site
improvements or completed the improvements in compliance with this chapter.
   (F)   No extension shall be granted unless security, as provided in division
(B) above, has been provided by the subdivider covering the extended period of
time.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)
§ 154.13  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective from and after its passage or from and after
11-20-1984.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)
§ 154.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter within the corporate
limits of the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be fined an amount not exceeding $200. Each day that the violation continues
shall be a separate offense. Prosecution or conviction under this provision
shall never be a bar to any other remedy or relief for violations of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1984)
CHAPTER 155:  HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
   
155.01   Title
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Condition or defects constituting an uninhabitable and dangerous
dwelling or building
   
155.04   Minimum standards
   
155.05   Uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building nuisances
   
155.06   Inspection of buildings, dwellings, dwelling units and premises
   
155.07   Duties of Housing Standards Inspector
   
155.08   Notice by Housing Standards Inspector or City Council
   
155.09   Duties of the City Council
   
155.10   Duties of the City Attorney
   
155.11   Duties of the Fire, Police, and Health Departments
   
155.12   Emergency cases
   
155.13   Where owner absent from the city
   
155.14   Administrative liability
   
155.15   Public nuisances
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Housing Standards Code.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure or part thereof not a dwelling as defined below.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling or
building and forming a single habitable unit or intended to be used for human
occupancy.
   DWELLINGS. Any structure or part thereof used for human habitation, or
intended to be used and shall include any outhouse and appurtenances belonging
thereto or used customarily therewith.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space within a dwelling used or
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking or calling purposes,
excluding bathrooms, water closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers or
communicating corridors, closets, and storage spaces.
   HEATING FACILITIES. Any stove, wall heater, central heater, hot water
radiator, steam radiator, solar system, electrical radiant heater, electrical
heat pump, or any other device capable of safely converting fuel to heat
energy, or of transferring heat from one ambient to another, and approved by
the Underwriters’ Laboratory, American Gas Association, or other nationally
recognized testing laboratory.
   HOUSING STANDARDS INSPECTOR. The City Clerk or authorized person employed by
the city and assigned or designated by the City Manager to carry out certain
primary duties as set forth in this chapter.
   MOBILE HOMES. Any currently licensed vehicle or structure designed and
capable of travel on the highways of the state.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple as recorded in the deed records
or deed off trust records of the office of the Clerk of the County Court of
Hardin County, Texas, or any party known to have an ownership interest.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who have
an interest of record in a dwelling or building or any who are in possession
thereof.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. An officer in charge of any department or branch of the
government of the city relating to health, fire, housing, building regulations
or other activities concerning dwelling or buildings in the city.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPATION. Shall mean essentially the same as the term
“uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building” as defined below.
   UNINHABITABLE AND DANGEROUS DWELLING OR BUILDING. Any dwelling or building
or structure which has any or all of the deficiencies as listed under §
155.03 and §
155.04.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.03  CONDITION OR DEFECTS CONSTITUTING AN UNINHABITABLE AND DANGEROUS
DWELLING OR BUILDING.
   Any or all of the following conditions or defects shall constitute an
uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building and such dwelling or building
shall be declared as unfit for human occupation and a violation of this
chapter.
   (A)   (1)   All buildings, including dwellings or dwelling units, where, on
a vertical structure section designed as a gravity member there occurs a
lateral displacement which causes the resultant pressure to fall beyond the
middle third of the base of such gravity member, it shall cause said section to
be considered unsafe and subject to correction or demolition.
      (2)   All buildings, including dwellings or dwelling units whose walls,
vertical structural members, or horizontal structural members, other than
gravity type walls, list, lean, or buckle from their designed position, or show
other visual signs or deterioration to such degree that, in the opinion of the
Housing Standards Inspector, an imminent hazard to the building, dwelling or
dwelling unit or its occupants is present, it shall cause such section to be
considered unsafe and subject to correction or demolition.
   (B)   All buildings, dwellings or dwelling units which exclusive of the
foundation,  show 33% or more of damage or deterioration of the supporting
member or members or 50% of damage or deterioration of the non-supporting
enclosing or outside walls or covering.
   (C)   All buildings, dwellings or dwelling units which have improperly
distributed loads upon the floors or roofs or in which the same are overloaded,
or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose.
   (D)   All buildings, dwellings or dwelling units which have been damaged by
fire,  explosion, wind, vandalism or elements of nature so as to have become
dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general health and welfare of the
occupants thereof or the people of the city.
   (E)   All buildings, dwellings or dwelling units which have outside walls
which are not finished with a protective coating or covering sufficient to
protect said building, dwelling or dwelling unit from deterioration and the
action of the elements.
   (F)   All buildings, dwellings or dwelling units which have become or are so
dilapidated, or decayed, and unsafe, or unsanitary, or which so utterly fail to
provide the amenities essential to decent living that they are unfit for human
habitation, or are likely to cause sickness or disease, so as to work injury to
the health, morals, safety or general welfare to those living therein.
   (G)   All buildings, dwellings or dwelling units having inadequate light,
air and sanitation facilities, as defined in §
155.04(A) and (C), to protect the health, morals, safety or general welfare of
human beings who live or may live therein.
   (H)   All buildings, dwellings or dwelling units having inadequate
facilities for egress in case of fire or panic or those having insufficient
stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other means of ingress or egress, as
defined in §
155.04(B).
   (I)   All buildings, dwellings, or dwelling units which have parts thereof
which are so attached that they may fall and injure members of the public or
property.
   (J)   All buildings, dwellings or dwelling units, which, because of their
condition are unsanitary, or dangerous in the health, safety or general welfare
of the people of the city.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.04  MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   In order to eliminate the existence of and to prevent in the future
all uninhabitable and dangerous dwellings or buildings, the following minimum
standards are hereby established and all the existing buildings, new
construction and future installations shall be in accordance with the
applicable ordinances of the city regulating the same.
      (1)   Basic equipment and facilities. All dwelling units shall comply
with the following requirements:
         (a)   There shall be provided a kitchen sink in all dwelling units
where cooking facilities exist, which kitchen sink shall be installed in
compliance with city ordinances.
         (b)   There shall be provided a flush water closet, a lavatory basin
and a bathtub or shower, which flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub
or shower shall be installed in compliance with the city ordinances, and such
flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be enclosed in a
separate room to afford privacy to a person within said room.
         (c)   Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
required under the provisions of divisions (a) and (b) above shall be connected
with both hot and cold water lines.
         (d)   There shall be provided water heating equipment and facilities
of a minimum storage capacity of 20 gallons for each dwelling unit which
facilities are installed in compliance with the city ordinances, and connected
with water lines as required under the provisions of division (c) above and are
capable of heating water to such a temperature as to permit hot water to be
drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower at a
temperature of not less than 100 degrees Fahrenheit. Such water heating
facilities shall be capable of meeting the requirements of this paragraph
regardless of whether or not the heating facilities of the building, dwelling
or dwelling unit are in operation.
      (2)   Egress. In all buildings, dwellings or dwelling units there shall
be provided safe and unobstructed means of egress leading to safe and open
space at ground level.
      (3)   Light and ventilation requirements. All buildings dwellings or
dwelling units to be used for the purpose of human habitation or residence,
shall comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   Substantially every habitable room shall have at least one
window or skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window
area, measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the
floor area of such room. Whenever walls or other portions of structure face a
window of any such room and such light-obstruction structures are located less
than three feet from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling
of the room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors
and shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area. Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top
of such room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15%
of the total floor area of such room.
         (b)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
which can be opened easily, or such other device as will adequately ventilate
the room. The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall be
equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight-type
window size, as required in division (3)(a) above, except where there is
supplied some other device affording adequate ventilation and approved by the
Housing Standards Inspector.
         (c)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with
the light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in
divisions (3)(a) and (3)(b) above except that no window or skylight shall be
required in adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet compartments
equipped with a ventilation system which is kept in operating condition and
approved by the Housing Standards Inspector.
         (d)   Every habitable room of each dwelling shall be wired for
electricity substantially in compliance with the electrical code of the city,
and every water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room, furnace room, and
public hall shall contain at least one electric light fixture controlled by a
switch. Every such outlet and fixture shall be properly installed shall be
maintained in good and safe working condition.
         (e)   Every dwelling shall be supplied with effective protection
against the entry of flies, mosquitoes, other insects and rodents.
      (4)   Heating requirements. All buildings, dwellings or dwelling units
used for the purpose of human habitation and residence therein, shall comply
with the requirements that every dwelling shall have healing facilities in
compliance with the standards and regulations set forth in the city ordinances,
which healing facilities shall be maintained in safe and good working
conditions, and are capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable
rooms, bathrooms, and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit located
therein to a temperature of at least 70 degrees Fahrenheit, at a distance three
feet above floor level, under ordinary minimum winter conditions.
      (5)   Space use and location requirements. All buildings and dwelling
units used for the purpose of human habitation and residence therein shall
comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 250 square feet of
floor space of habitable room area for the first one and/or two occupant(s)
thereof and at least 60 additional square feet of habitable room area for every
additional occupant thereof. For the purpose of computing habitable room area
in this division, children under the age of one shall not be counted.
         (b)   In every dwelling unit of two or more rooms, every room occupied
for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor space, of habitable room area, and every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by two occupants shall contain at least 20 additional square feet of
floor space of habitable room area for each additional occupant thereof. For
the purpose of computing habitable room area in this division, children under
the age of one shall not be counted.
         (c)   At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room
shall have a ceiling height of at least seven feet, and the floor area of that
part of any room where the ceiling height is less than five feet shall not be
considered as part of the floor area in computing the total floor area of the
room for the purposes of determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
         (d)   The requirements of (A)(5)(c) above do not apply to any hotel,
motel, tourist court where the occupant in question has a residence elsewhere,
or does not occupy local quarters for a period of longer than 15 consecutive
days. Neither do the requirements of division (A)(5) apply to mobile homes as
that term has been defined herein.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A)(5) shall apply to the construction of
all buildings, dwellings and dwelling units within the city limits. The
provisions of division (A)(5) shall apply to all existing buildings, dwellings,
and dwelling units from and after the date of classification of any area as an
enforcement area within which it is determined by the City Council at a public
hearing that said designated area requires, in addition to all other
requirements of this chapter, for the preservation of the public health and
safety, the prevention of crime and the correction of conditions contributing
to the cause of juvenile delinquency, and the reduction of economic and social
instability within the area so designated that the provisions of this division
be enforced.
   (C)   In the event any person or group of persons requests a determination
of the existence of such conditions for any area not so designated, the City
Council, under such rules and regulations as it may determine, shall set a date
for a public hearing and publish a notice thereof at least once and at least
three days prior to the date of such public hearing, in a newspaper published
in the city and determine at such hearing whether or not such area is an area
in which the conditions exist which require the application and enforcement of
the standards, provisions and restrictions set forth in this section. No such
area shall be less than a five acre tract, including public streets and
publicly owned property therein and no more than 800 acres for the
consideration at any public hearing to be held by the City Council on any one
date.
      (1)   If the uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building can
reasonably be repaired so that it will no longer exist in violation of the
terms of this chapter. It shall be ordered repaired.
      (2)   If the uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building is 50%
damaged or decayed or deteriorated, it shall be ordered demolished.
      (3)   If the uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building cannot be
repaired so that it will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this
chapter, it shall be ordered demolished.
   (4)   If the uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building is a fire
hazard existing or erected in violation of the terms of this chapter or any
ordinance of this city or statute off the state, it shall be demolished,
providing the said fire hazard is not eliminated by the owner or other
interested persons within a reasonable time.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.05  UNINHABITABLE AND DANGEROUS DWELLING OR BUILDING NUISANCES.
   All uninhabitable and dangerous dwellings or buildings within the terms of §
155.03 and §
155.04 are hereby declared to be public nuisances, and shall be vacated and
either repaired or demolished as hereinbefore or hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.06  INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS, DWELLINGS, DWELLING UNITS AND PREMISES.
   The City Clerk of Housing Standards Inspector is hereby authorized and
directed to make inspections to determine the condition of buildings,
dwellings, dwelling units and premises located within the city, in order that
he or she may perform his or her duty of safeguarding the safety, health and
welfare of the occupants and of the general public. For the purpose of making
such inspections, the Housing Standards Inspector is hereby authorized to
enter, examine, and survey at all reasonable times all buildings, dwellings,
dwelling units and premises. The owner or occupant of every building, dwelling
and dwelling unit or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Housing
Standards Inspector or his or her assistants free access to such building,
dwelling or dwelling unit and its premises, at all reasonable times for the
purpose of such inspection or examination and survey. Every occupant of a
building, dwelling, or dwelling unit shall give the owner thereof or this agent
or its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making repairs or
alterations or for such other purposes as are necessary to effect compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.07  DUTIES OF HOUSING STANDARDS INSPECTOR.
   The Housing Standards Inspector or his or her authorized representative
shall:
   (A)   Be authorized to inspect or cause to be inspected annually, all public
buildings, schools, halls, churches, theaters, hotels, tenements, commercial
manufacturing or loft buildings for the purpose of determining whether any
conditions exist which render such places an uninhabitable and dangerous
dwelling or building within the terms of  §
155.03 and §
155.04.
   (B)   Be authorized to inspect any building, dwelling, dwelling unit, wall
or other part thereof about which complaints are filed by any person or any
city department, division or section, to the effect that a building, dwelling,
dwelling, unit, wall or part thereof is, or may be, existing in violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   Be authorized to inspect annually buildings, dwellings, and dwelling
units in all parts of this city to determine whether they are uninhabitable and
dangerous dwellings or buildings within the terms of §
155.03 and §
155.04.
   (D)   (1)   Place a notice on an uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or
building reading as follows:
         This building has been found to be an UNINHABITABLE AND DANGEROUS
STRUCTURE by the Housing Standards Inspector. This notice is to remain on the
structure until it is repaired or demolished in accordance with the notice
dated                      which has been mailed to the owner, occupant or
mortgagee of this building, and all other persons having an interest in said
building or property as shown by the deed records and deed of trust records of
Hardin County, Texas. It is a violation of this chapter for anyone to remove
this notice until such notice is complied with.
                                 Signed                                        
                                        Housing Standards Inspector
      (2)   Provided that where dwelling is occupied, written notice shall be
given to the occupants thereof, within ten days prior to the actual posting of
this uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling.
   (E)   Appear at all hearings conducted by the City Council and testify as to
the condition of the uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building.
   (F)   Report to the City Council any non-compliance with the notice provided
for in §
155.09.
   (G)   Summary notice.
      (1)   When, upon investigation of any vacant structure or building, the
Housing Standards Inspector determines the existence of any conditions in
violation of the provisions of this chapter which would endanger the health or
safety or any occupant or occupants thereof, the Inspector shall, prior to the
giving of the written notice thereof provided for in §
155.08, cause to be posted on the vacant premises a small, white card reading
substantially as follows, to-wit:
W A R N I N G
This is a
SUB-STANDARD BUILDING
According to the terms of the minimum standards
housing code of the City of Sour Lake, it is
UNLAWFUL TO OCCUPY
this building until it complies with such code.
                        For further information call:               This notice
posted by the undersigned officer of the
                        City of Sour Lake                  City of Sour Lake
                        Housing Standards Division               Removal of
this notice shall be punishable by fine.
                        Date:                              
                        Inspector                                              
                                             
      (2)   After posting such white card notice, the Housing Standards
Inspector shall proceed immediately to complete his or her investigation and
prepare the written notices and other postings provided for in this chapter.
      (3)   Any person removing or causing the removal from any structure or
building of any white card notice posted by the Housing Standards Inspector
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall upon conviction thereof be fined in
any sum not exceeding $200.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.08  NOTICE BY HOUSING STANDARDS INSPECTOR OR CITY COUNCIL.
   Notice by the Housing Standards Inspector or the City Council must be in
writing and may be served by a police or warrant officer of the city or any
other person of good character, or may be sent via registered or certified mail
and such notice shall be served upon or mailed to the owner, occupant or
mortgagee, and all other persons having an interest in the said building or
properly as shown by the deed or deed of trust records of Hardin County, Texas,
of any structures found by the Housing Standards Inspector or City Council to
be an uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building within the standards set
forth the following information:
   (A)   Name of owner or other persons interested, as provided hereinabove.
   (B)   Street address and legal description of the property on which said
building is located.
   (C)   General description of type of dwelling, building, wall or structure
deemed unsafe.
   (D)   A complete, itemized statement or list of particulars which caused the
dwelling, building, wall or structure to be an uninhabitable and dangerous
dwelling or building as defined in §
155.03 and §
155.04.
   (E)   Whether or not such dwelling or building should be vacated by its
occupants and the date such vacation shall be effective.
   (F)   Whether or not the conditions set forth in the statement or list of
particulars, as provided for in division (A) above, can be eliminated or
otherwise complied with.
   (G)   Whether or not the dwelling or building constitutes a fire menace.
   (H)   Whether or not it is unreasonable to repair the dwelling or building
or otherwise comply with the terms of this chapter and whether or not such
dwelling or building should be demolished.
   (I)   A statement of the time considered reasonable for party receiving
notice to commence to make repairs or otherwise comply and/or demolish the
dwelling or building as provided in such notice. A reasonable time shall not
exceed 30 days, except in cases of an unusually large building. The time to
commence may be extended by the Housing Standards Inspector or the City Council
for an additional period of up to 60 days, provided, however, the extension is
applied for by the owner, or other person interested in the property as
hereinabove defined, at least five days before the expiration of the time to
commence repair or demolition under the notice.
   (J)   A reasonable time to complete the repair or demolition or otherwise
comply as provided in such notice, and such reasonable time for completion
shall not exceed 90 days from date of notice unless the time is extended by
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.09  DUTIES OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Council shall:
      (1)   Upon receipt of a report of the Housing Standards Inspector, as
provided for in §
155.07(F), give a written notice, sent via registered mail or certified mail to
the owner, occupant, mortgagee, and all other persons having an interest in
said dwelling or building as shown by the deed or deed of trust records of
Hardin County, Texas, to appear before it on the date specified in the notice
to show cause why the building, dwelling or structure reported to be an
uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building should not be vacated and
either repaired or demolished in accordance with the statement of particulars
set forth in the Housing Standards Inspector’s notice provided for herein in §
155.08.
      (2)   Hold a hearing open to the public to hear such testimony as may be
presented by any department of the city, the Housing Standards Inspector or the
owner, occupant, mortgagee or any other person having an interest in such
dwelling or building with relation to the uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling
or building.
      (3)   Make written findings of fact from the testimony offered pursuant
to division (A)(2) above as to whether or not the dwelling or building in
question is an uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building within the
terms of §
155.03 and §
155.04 by a concurring vote of not less than three members of the City Council.
      (4)   After deliberation of the findings, issue an order based upon
findings of fact made pursuant to division (A)(3) above and signed by the Mayor
or Mayor Pro Tem commanding the owner, occupant, mortgagee, and all persons
having an interest in said trust records of Hardin County, Texas, to vacate and
either repair, or otherwise comply and/or demolish any dwelling or building
found to be an uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building within the
terms of this chapter.
      (5)   If the owner, occupant, mortgagee, or other person having an
interest in said dwelling or building fails to comply with the order provided
for in division (A) above, within ten days, or any reasonable time ordered by
the City Council, then the City Council shall cause such dwelling, building or
structure to be repaired or demolished as the facts may warrant under the
procedures hereinabove provided in Section 5, and the costs of such repair or
demolition shall be a lien charged against the land, on which such dwelling,
building or structure existed, in favor of the city or such costs shall be
attached to the tax statement as an assessment lien against the land on which
the swelling, building or structure stands, or did stand, or shall be recovered
in a suit at law or equity against the owner: provided, however, in cases where
such procedure is desirable, and any delay thereby caused will not be dangerous
to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of the people of this city,
the City Council may notify the City Attorney to take legal action to force the
owner to vacate and either make all necessary repairs or demolish the building
or structure.
      (6)   Report to the City Attorney the names of all persons not complying
the order provided for in division (A)(4) above.
   (B)   Upon making a determination that such structure is an uninhabitable
and dangerous dwelling or building, the City Council may issue a request to the
City Attorney’s office to institute a suit, within 30 days after determination
and failure by the appellant to comply with such decision in the district court
of Hardin County to show that such structure is a nuisance and a hazard and
thereby enforce the action taken by City Council.
   (C)   Upon final judgment by the district court of Hardin County, Texas,
that such structure is a nuisance, and on a failure of such owner to take steps
to remedy same, within 30 days after rendering such final judgment, then the
city is authorized to such structure, and the costs of such repair, vacation or
demolition shall be a lien charged against the land on which said structure
existed, in favor of the city.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.10  DUTIES OF THE CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall:
   (A)   (1)   Take the necessary legal action as provided in §
155.09(A)(6).
      (2)   Prosecute all persons failing to comply with the terms of the
notices provided for herein in 
155.09(A)(4).
   (B)   Appear at all hearings before the City Council in regard to
uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building.
   (C)   Bring suit to collect costs incurred by the City Council in repairing
or causing to be vacated or demolished such uninhabitable dangerous dwellings
or buildings.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.11  DUTIES OF THE FIRE, POLICE, AND HEALTH DEPARTMENTS.
   The employees of the fire and police divisions and health department shall
make a report, in writing, to the Housing Standards Inspector of all dwellings,
buildings or structures, which are, may be, or are suspected to be
uninhabitable and dangerous dwellings or buildings within the purview of this
chapter. Such reports must be delivered to the Housing Standards Inspector
within 24 hours of the discovery of such dwelling, building, or structure by
any employee of the fire or police divisions or health department.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.12  EMERGENCY CASES.
   In cases where it reasonably appears that there is immediate danger to the
life or safety of any person unless an uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or
building as defined herein is immediately repaired, vacated or demolished, the
Housing Standards Inspector shall report such facts to the City Council and the
Council shall cause the immediate repair, vacation or demolition of such
uninhabitable and dangerous dwelling or building. The costs of such emergency
repair, vacation, demolition or other compliance of such uninhabitable and
dangerous dwelling or building shall be collected in the same manner as
provided in all other cases under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.13  WHERE OWNER ABSENT FROM THE CITY.
   In cases, except emergency cases, where the owner, occupant, lessee or
mortgagee, or other interested party is absent from the city, all notices or
orders provided for herein shall be sent via registered mail or certified mail
to the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee and all other persons having an
interest in said dwelling or building, as described by deed records and deed of
trust records of Hardin County, Texas, to the last known address of each and a
copy of such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the uninhabitable
and dangerous dwelling or building to which it relates. Such mailing and
posting shall be deemed adequate service.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.14  ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent or employee of the city shall render himself personally
liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result under
this chapter. Any suit brought against any office, agent or employee of the
city, as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or
her duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the City Attorney until the
final determination of the proceedings herein.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.15  PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   All substandard buildings or structures within the terms of this chapter
which shall constitute a menace to the health, morals, safety or general
welfare of its occupants or of the public are declared to be public nuisances
and shall be ordered to be vacated, repaired, or demolished as hereinabove
provided.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
§ 155.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, parties in interest, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter or fail to comply therewith or with any of the
requirements thereof shall be subject to a misdemeanor prosecution and upon
conviction shall be published by a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $200,
and each day that such violation shall be permitted to exist or continue shall
constitute a separate offense. In the event a corporation is the violator of
any of the provisions of this chapter, each officer, agent and employee of such
corporation who is responsible for or contributes to such violation in any
manner shall be individually and severally liable for the penalties herein
prescribed. Where any person is acting solely as agent for the party in
ownership, no penalties under this section shall be assessed against such agent
as such.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1989)
 
CHAPTER 156: COMPREHENSIVE ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purpose
   
156.03   Definitions
   
156.04   Preservation of existing rights
   
156.05   Exceptions
   
156.06   Board of Adjustment
   
156.07   Changes and amendments
   
156.08   Noncomformities
   
156.09   Schedule of permitted uses
Districts
   
156.20   Districts and district boundaries
   
156.21   AG - Agricultural District
   
156.22   R - Residential Single-Family Dwelling District
   
156.23   M-1 - Manufactured Dwelling District
   
156.24   M-2 - Manufactured Homes Park District
   
156.25   PUD - Planned Unit Development District
   
156.26   NR - Neighborhood Retail District
   
156.27   C - Commercial District
   
156.28   MD - Manufacturing District
Development Regulations
   
156.35   Supplemental development regulations
   
156.36   Completion of existing buildings
   
156.37   Off-street parking and loading requirements
 
   
156.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited and referred to as the
"Comprehensive Zoning Code."
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.02  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The zoning regulations and districts herein established have been made
in accordance with a comprehensive zoning plan for the purpose of promoting
health, safety, morals and the general welfare of the city. The regulations
have been designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from
fire, panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent
the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to
facilitate adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks
and other public requirements. They have been made with reasonable
consideration, among other things, of the character of the district and its
peculiar suitability for the particular uses and with a view of conserving the
value of improvements and encouraging the most appropriate use of land
throughout the community.
   (B)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they
shall be construed to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public safety, health, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare. It
is not intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any
easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties, provided however,
that where the chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings
or premises or upon height of buildings or requires larger open spaces than are
imposed or required by restrictive covenants, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.03  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Certain words in this chapter are defined for the purpose hereof as
follows:
      (1)   Words in the present tense include the future;
      (2)   Words in the singular number include the plural number;
      (3)   The words in the plural number include the singular;
      (4)   The word "building" includes the word "structure";
      (5)   The word "lot" includes the word "plot"; and
      (6)   The word "shall" is mandatory and directive.
   ABUT. To physically touch or border upon; to share a common property line
but not overlap. See ADJOINING LOT OR LAND.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A structure detached from the principal building which:
      (1)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use;
      (2)   Is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served; and
      (3)   Is located on the same lot as the principal building or principal
use. In any residentially zoned district, the access building may not have
separate utilities, be used for commercial purposes, or rented to an
individual.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use of land or of a building or portion thereof customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or building and
located on the same lot with the principal use.
   ADJOINING LOT OR LAND. A lot or parcel of land that shares all or part of a
common lot line with another lot or parcel of land. See ABUT.
   ALLEY. A public service space or roadway providing secondary means of public
access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ANIMAL KENNEL. A commercial establishment in which dogs or other
domesticated animals are housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained, or sold, all
for a fee or compensation.
   APARTMENT. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY.
   APPROVED PLAN. A plan that has been granted final approval by the
appropriate approving authority.
   AUTOMOBILE SALES. The use of any building, land area, or other premises for
the display and sale of new or used automobiles generally but may include light
trucks or vans, trailers, or recreational vehicles and including any vehicle
preparation or repair work conducted as an accessory use.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building, land area, or other premises, or
portion thereof, used for the retail dispensing or sales of vehicular fuels;
servicing and repair of automobiles; and including as an accessory use the sale
and installation of lubricants, tires, batteries, similar vehicle accessories
and sundry items.
   AUTOMOBILE WASH. Any building or premises or portions thereof used for
washing automobiles.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SERVICES. Any building, premises, and land in which or
upon which a business, service, or industry involving the maintenance,
servicing, repair, or painting of vehicles is conducted or rendered.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building between floor and ceiling, which is
partly below and partly above grade, but so located that the vertical distance
from grade to the floor below is less than the vertical distance from grade to
ceiling.
   BED AND BREAKFAST HOME. An owner occupied residence, other than a hotel,
which provides temporary sleeping accommodations and a meal only to registered
guests of the establishment at no additional cost; and which meets the criteria
established for "Bed and Breakfast Home" as stated in §
156.35.
   BLOCK. An area within the city enclosed by streets and occupied by or
intended for buildings; or, if said word is used as a term of measurement, it
shall mean the distance along a side of a street between the nearest two
streets which intersect said street on said side.
   BOARDING OR LODGING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel, where lodging and
meals for five or more persons are served for compensation.
   BUILDING. Any structure or building for the support, shelter, and enclosure
of persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from finished grade to the top of the
highest roof beams on a flat or shed roof, the deck level of a mansard roof,
and the average distance between eaves and the ridge level for gable, hop, and
gambrel roofs. In measuring the height of the building, the following
structures shall be excluded: chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads,
penthouses, tanks, water towers, radio and television towers, ornamental
cupolas, domes or spires, flagpoles, and parapet walls not exceeding four feet
in height.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the street line establishing the minimum
required front yard.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located.
   BUSINESS. Includes retail, commercial and manufacturing uses and districts
as herein defined.
   CAMPGROUND. Land where individuals can camp overnight in tents but where
RV's, trailers, and similar vehicular units are not permitted.
   CHURCH. A building or structure, or group of buildings or structures, that
by design and construction are primarily intended for conducting organized
religious services and associated and accessory uses.
   CLINIC. An establishment where patients are admitted for examination and
treatment on an outpatient basis by one or more physicians, dentists, or other
medical personnel or social worker.
   CLUB/SOCIAL ORGANIZATION (CHILDREN). A facility providing entertainment to
the public where activities take place indoors or outdoors and which may
include rides, games, concessions, or exhibits.
   COMMUNITY OR SOCIAL BUILDING. A building used for recreational, social,
educational and cultural activities generally owned, maintained and operated by
a homeowners associated for the enjoyment of resident members.
   CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS.
      (1)   A commercial activity that is conducted by a person on the same lot
(in a residential district) where such person resides, and is not so
insubstantial or incidental or is not so commonly associated with the
residential use as to be regarded as an accessory use, but that can be
conducted without any significantly adverse impact on the surrounding
neighborhood.
      (2)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a use may not be
regarded as having an insignificantly adverse impact on the surrounding
neighborhood if:
         (a)   Goods, stock in trade, or other commodities are displayed;
         (b)   Any on-premises retail sales occur;
         (c)   A person not a resident on the premises is employed in
connection with the purported home occupation;
         (d)   It creates objectionable noise, fumes, odor, dust, electrical
interference or increases traffic significantly;
         (e)   More than 25% of the total gross floor area of residential
buildings plus other buildings housing the purported home occupations, or more
than 500 square feet of gross floor area (whichever is less), is used for home
occupation purposes; or
         (f)   Involves the display of a sign.
      (3)   The following is a non-exhaustive list of examples of enterprises
that may be home occupations if they meet the foregoing definitional criteria:
         (a)   The office or studio of a physician, dentist, artist, musician,
lawyer, architect, engineer, teacher, or similar professional;
         (b)   Workshops, greenhouses, or kilns; or
         (c)   Dressmaking or hairdressing studios.
   DAY CARE. Any structure which is utilized to provide care to more than six
children (exclusive of the natural, foster, or adopted children of the
residents of the structure); utilizes persons other than those residing in the
structure to provide care; or provides care between 7 a.m. and 12 a.m.
   DAY NURSERY. Any dwelling structure, which is utilized by only the residents
of that structure, to provide care for not more than six children (exclusive of
the natural, foster or adopted children of the residents of the structure)
between the hours of 7 a.m. and 12 a.m., and which displays a current
registration certificate for the provision of child care from the appropriate
state agency.
   DISTRICT. A section of the city for which the regulations governing the
area, height or use of the building are uniform.
   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT. Any building or premises primarily engaged in the
retail sale of alcoholic beverages such as beer, ale, wine and liquor, for
consumption on the premises. Typical establishments include: bars, night clubs,
lounges and dance halls.
   DUPLEX. See DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof, which is designed,
built, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied as three or more
dwelling units; or which is occupied as the home or residence of three or more
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A building containing one dwelling unit and that is
not attached to any other dwelling by any means and which is occupied by not
more than one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building on a single lot containing two dwelling
units, each of which is totally separated from the other by an unpierced wall
extending from ground to roof or an unpierced ceiling and flooring extending
from exterior wall to exterior wall, except for a common stairwell exterior to
both dwelling units and which is occupied by not more than two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms, designed, occupied, or intended for
occupancy as a separate living quarter.
   EATING ESTABLISHMENT. Any building or premises primarily engaged in the
retail sale of prepared food and drink for on premise or immediate consumption.
   FAMILY. A family is any number of individuals living together as a single
housekeeping unit, in which not more than four individuals are unrelated by
blood.
   FARM. An area of two acres or more, which is used for the growing of the
usual farm products such as vegetables, fruit trees and grain and their storage
on the area as well as the raising thereon of the usual farm poultry and farm
animals such as horses, cattle, sheep and swine including dairy farms with the
necessary accessory uses and for treating and storing the produce; provided,
however, that the operation of such accessory use shall be secondary to that of
the normal activities and provided further that it does not include the
commercial feeding of offal or garage to swine or other animals.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The total horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or structure from the exterior face of exterior walls, or from the
centerline of a wall separating adjoined buildings or structures, but excluding
any space where the floor-to-ceiling height is less than six feet.
   FOOD PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment in which food is processed
or otherwise prepared for eventual human consumption but not consumed on the
premises.
   FRATERNITY AND SORORITY HOUSE. A building other than a hotel, which is
occupied only by individuals enrolled in a college or university located within
the city and persons to attend the house and supervise the activities of the
fraternity or sorority. Except for the attendants, each resident must be a
member of a fraternity or sorority that is recognized by the college or
university and chartered by a state or national organization.
   GRADE. For buildings having walls adjoining one street only: it is the
elevation of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street. For
buildings having walls adjoining more than one street: it is the average of the
elevation of the sidewalks at the center of all walls adjoining the street. For
buildings having no wall adjoining the street: it is the average level of the
finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from a street
line is to be considered as adjoining the street. Where no sidewalk has been
constructed, the City Engineer shall establish such sidewalk level or its
equivalent for the purpose of these regulations.
   HOME OCCUPATION. See CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATION.
   HOSPITAL. An institution providing primary health services and medical or
surgical care to persons, primarily inpatients, suffering from illness,
disease, injury, deformity and other abnormal physical or mental conditions and
including, as an integral part of the institution, related facilities, such as
laboratories, outpatient facilities, training facilities, medical offices, and
staff residences.
   HOTEL AND MOTEL. A facility offering transient lodging accommodations to the
general public and which may provide additional services, such as restaurants,
meeting rooms, entertainment, and recreation facilities.
   H.U.D. REGULATIONS. The Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standard Act, 42
U.S.C.S., Section 5401 et seq., as the same now exists or as is amended.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface that has been compacted or covered with a
layer of material so that it is highly resistant to infiltration by water.
   INSTITUTIONAL USE. A nonprofit, religious, or public use such as a church,
library, public or private school, hospital, or government owned or operated
building, structure or land used for public purpose.
   JUNK. A manufactured good, appliance, fixture, furniture, machinery,
vehicle, personal property or any other thing or part thereof, whether of value
or valueless, that is demolished, discarded, dismantled dilapidated, or so worn
deteriorated or in such a condition as to be generally unusable and/or
inoperable. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, anything that is
water soluble, primarily organize or not typically associated with junkyard
activities may not be considered junk.
   JUNKYARD. The outdoor use of any lot for sale, storage, display,
dismantling, demolition, abandonment or discarding of junk as defined by this
section.
   KINDERGARTEN. A school for children of pre-public school age in which
constructive endeavors, object lessons, and helpful games are prominent
features of the curriculum.
   LANDSCAPING. The following words, terms and phrases shall have the following
meanings ascribed to them, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
      BUILDING SITE.  The tract, parcel or lot of land area being developed.
      DIAMETER. The measurement of a three at six inches above ground level.
      GROUND COVER. Grasses and other plants grown to keep soil from being
blown or washed away and planted so as to develop full coverage within 18
months. Bark mulches, gravel and other pervious material may be used as ground
cover under trees and shrubs.
      LANDSCAPE DEVELOPMENT. Trees, shrubs, ground cover, wines or grass
installed in planting areas having a minimum of ten square feet of actual
planting area and a minimum inside dimension on any side of 18 inches.
      SHRUB. Any self-supporting, woody, evergreen species as normally will
grow in the county.
      TREE. Any self-supporting, woody plant of a species that normally grows
to an overall height of a minimum of 15 feet in the county. At the time of
planting, the minimum diameter shall be one inch.
      TREE BOARD. An advisory body, appointed by the City Council, having the
responsibility to study, investigates, counsel and develop plans for the care,
preservation of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public
areas.
   LAUNDROMAT. An establishment providing washing, drying or dry cleaning
machines on the premises for use by the general public.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by plat,
subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used,
developed, or built upon.
   LOT AREA. The area of the lot shall be the net area within the lot lines and
shall not include portions of streets and alleys.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection or
upon two parts of the same street forming an interior angle of less than 135
degrees.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot which has a stem, or a narrow strip of land connecting the
main property to the street. The stem or strip must be wide enough to meet the
subdivision requirement for frontage on a street, but may not be less than the
required width for the particular zone in which it is situated.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot that fronts upon two parallel streets or that fronts
upon two streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of that lot.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot line
on interior lots; between the front and opposite side lot line on corner lots;
and between front yard lines on through lots.
   LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a lot that divides one lot from another
lot or from a public or private street or any other public space.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Clerk, or a parcel of land, the deed
for which was recorded in the office of the County Clerk prior to June 18,
1963.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lines of a lot measured
parallel to the front lot line at the minimum required building setback line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, constructed on or after June 15, 1976,
according to the rules of the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development, transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode
is eight body feet or more in width, 40 body feet or more in length, or when
erected on site is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning and electrical systems. The term does not include a
recreational vehicle.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure or building, the size, dimensions or
location of which was lawful prior to the adopted, revision or amendment to the
zoning ordinance but fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment
to conform to the present requirements of this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use or activity that was lawful prior to the adoption,
revision or amendment of this chapter but that fails by reason of such
adoption, revision or amendment to conform to the present requirements of the
zoning district.
   OFFICE, MEDICAL. An establishment where patients are admitted for
examination and treatment on an outpatient basis by one or more physicians,
dentists, or medical personnel or social worker.
   OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL OR BUSINESS. Administrative, managerial, service,
executive, professional, governmental, educational, research, or similar
entities and laboratories whether for profit or non-profit, having only limited
contact with the public. Entities which benefit from and contribute to an
environment of semi-residential nature characterized by law vehicular traffic
and pedestrian volumes, lack of distracting, irritating, or sustained noise,
and low density of building developments. It has limited activity regarding
sales or distribution or merchandise as to be incidental or accessory to the
principal permissible use and constitute no greater than 20% of the gross
revenue of the office. Uses in which sales are greater than 20% of the gross
revenue of the organization are classified as retail or wholesale stores.
   OUTDOOR SALES. Any primary use of premises not specifically listed in §
156.09, whereon goods, stock in trade or other commodity is displayed for the
purpose of sales and which the display area is greater than 30% of the gross
floor area of the principal building.
   PARK (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE). A recreational facility either public or private
containing a park or playground.
   PARKING SPACE. An area meeting the dimensional requirements prescribed by
this chapter, surfaced with an all-weather surface together with an all-weather
surfaced driveway connecting the parking space with a street or alley
permitting free ingress and egress. The space shall not be located within a
public street or alley, nor shall head in parking adjacent to a public street
or alley, wherein the maneuvering is done on a public street or alley, shall
not be classified as off-street parking in computing the parking requirements
for any use.
   PAVEMENT. A created surface, such as brick, stone, concrete, or asphalt,
placed on the land to facilitate pedestrian or vehicular passage as may be
required.
   PERSONS. Any person, partnership, firm, company, corporation, tenant, owner,
lessee or licensee, agent, heir or assign.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied space reserved for purposes of access to abutting
property.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An association of persons, whether incorporated or
unincorporated, and whose members must be passed upon and elected as
individuals by a committee or board made by members of such club, said
association being required to be licensed or permitted by the Alcoholic
Beverage Commission of the State of Texas, and as further defined in Tex. Penal
Code Art. 666-15e, as presently written or as the same may be amended or
rewritten from time to time hereafter.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular-type portable structure without permanent
foundation that can be towed, hauled, or drive and primarily designed as a
temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use and
including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping
trailers, and self-propelled motors homes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any lot or parcel of land upon which two or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established, or maintained for
occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living
quarters for recreation or vacation purposes. No recreational vehicle shall
remain at a site in excess of 30 consecutive days.
   RESIDENTIAL HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Residences usually occupied by the frail
elderly that provide rooms, meals, personal care, and health monitoring
services under the supervision of a professional nurse and that may provide
other services, such as recreational, social, and cultural activities,
financial services, and transportation.
   RIDING ACADEMY, COMMERCIAL STABLE. An establishment where horses are boarded
and cared for and where instruction in riding, jumping, and showing is offered
and where horses may be hired for riding.
   SALVAGE STORAGE YARD. See JUNKYARD.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A site for solid waste disposal.
   SCHOOL, COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY. An educational institution authorized by the
state to award associated, baccalaureate or higher degrees.
   SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL. A secondary or higher education facility primarily
teaching usable skills that prepare students for jobs in a trade and meeting
the state requirements as a vocational facility.
   SCRAP METAL STORAGE YARD. See JUNKYARD.
   SERVANTS QUARTERS. An accessory building or portion of a main building
located on the same lot as the main building and used as living quarters for
servants employed on the premises and not rented or otherwise used as a
separate domicile.
   SHELTERED CARE FACILITY. A non-profit or for-profit boarding home for the
sheltered care of persons with special needs, which, in addition to providing
food and shelter, may also provide some combination of personal care, social or
counseling services and transportation.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments planned, constructed
and managed as a total entity with customer and employee parking on-site.
   SIGN, APARTMENT OR HOUSING PROJECT. A sign giving the nature, logo or other
identifying symbol, address, or any combination of the name, symbol or address
of an apartment complex or housing project. The sign shall be located only
within a common area associated with the development and shall not be construed
to identify an individual lot or occupant of a premises.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign that directs attention to a business or profession
conducted; or to a commodity or service sold, offered, or manufactured; or to
an entertainment offered on the premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN, MONUMENT. A permanent sign wherein the entire bottom of the sign is
affixed to the ground, not to a building or similar structure.
   SIGN, NAME PLATE. A sign not exceeding one square foot in area, located on
the premises, giving the name or address, or both, of the owner or occupant of
a building or premises.
   SIGN, OFF PREMISE. Any sign or structure used for advertising or display
purposes promoting or advertising goods or services not sold, manufactured,
distributed, not stored for commercial purposes, on the premises on which said
sign or structure is located.
   SIGN, PERMANENT BULLETIN BOARD. A sign that identifies an institutional use
on the premises of which it is located and that contains the name of the
institution and general announcement of events or activities occurring at the
institution or similar messages. Said sign may include the display of sponsor
(s) of the institution provided such display area on each sign face does not
exceed 15% of the smallest area that encompasses the name of the institution
and the message portion of the sign or 24 square feet, whichever is smaller.
   SIGN, PYLON. A freestanding sign with visible support structures or with the
support structure enclosed within a pole cover or similar device.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign pertaining to the sale or lease of the premises,
or a portion of the premises, on which the sign is located.
   STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE. A structure containing separate, individual
and private storage spaces of varying sizes leased or rented on individual
leases or varying periods of time.
   STREET. Any vehicular way, whether improved or unimproved, that:
      (1)   Is an existing state, county, or municipal roadway;
      (2)   Is shown upon a play approved pursuant to law; or
      (3)   Is approved by other official action.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a
contiguous street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting member of a building,
such as a bearing wall, column, beam, or girder.
   STRUCTURE. Any man-made object that needs support and rises more than two-
and-a-half feet above ground level.
   TEMPORARY BUILDINGS. A building used for construction purposes or a field
office for the sale of real estate.
   TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENT. Enterprises such as circuses, carnivals,
rodeos, pony rides and miniature train rides for a maximum period of ten
consecutive days.
   TRANSIT TERMINAL. Any premises for the storage or parking of mass transit
vehicles such as buses, shuttles and passenger trains and the loading and
unloading of passengers.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. A placed where animals are given medical care and the
boarding of animals is limited to short-term care incidental to the hospital
use.
   WRECKING MATERIALS YARD. See JUNKYARD.
   YARD. An open space between the principal building or buildings and the
nearest lot line. The minimum required yard as set forth in this chapter is
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward except as may be
specifically provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. An open space running parallel to an abutting street(s), which
is unoccupied by structures from the ground up except for such projections as
are expressly permitted.
   YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space on a lot, and being the minimum
horizontal distance between rear lot line and the principal building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on a lot, and being the minimum
horizontal distance between the side lot line and the principal building. Any
lot line, not the rear line or front line, shall be deemed a side line.
   ZONING OFFICIAL. The official of the city appointed by the City
Administrator as such, and whose duties include the administration and
enforcement of these zoning regulations.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.04  PRESERVATION OF EXISTING RIGHTS.
   (A)   This chapter does not legalize any current illegal use, unless the use
is a conforming use for that district. A use that was permitted by right or was
a nonconforming use under previous regulations, or was established lawfully
prior to the adoption of this chapter is deemed a nonconforming use. A use that
was not lawfully established is an illegal use.
   (B)   This chapter does not discharge or otherwise affect the prosecution of
any prior offense, or the imposition of any liability, penalty or forfeiture,
either civil or criminal. Prosecutions and suits for any offenses, liabilities,
penalties or forfeitures may be instituted or causes presently pending may
proceed as if this chapter had not been passed.
   (C)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate or annul any permit issued by
the city before the effective date of this chapter. Nothing in this chapter nor
in any amendments to this chapter which change district boundaries shall
require any change in the plans, construction or designated use of a building
that is completed in its entirety within two years from November 17, 2015,
provided such building was authorized by a permit issued by the city prior to
November 17, 2015.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.05  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   Where a greater front yard is established by ordinance or approved
planned unit development site plan within a zoning district, no building shall
be erected closer to the street right-of-way than so specified.
      (2)   Where a building line is shown on a plat recorded with the County
Clerk, and such building line provides a greater front yard than required by
this chapter, no building shall be erected closer to the right-of-way than
provided by the recorded plat.
      (3)   Open and unenclosed terraces or porches and eaves and roof
extensions may project into the required front yard for a distance not to
exceed four feet; provided however, that no supporting structure for such
extensions or other structure may be located within the required front yard.
      (4)   An unenclosed canopy for a gasoline service station or similar
business may extend into the required front yard but shall never be closer than
12 feet from the street right-of-way.
   (B)   Side and rear yards.
      (1)   The required side and rear yards shall be open and unobstructed
except as permitted in this section. The ordinary projection of window sills,
belt courses and other ornamental features not to exceed 12  inches. Eaves,
roof extensions and awnings may project to within five feet of a side or rear
lot line.
      (2)   Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways,
balconies opening upon fire towers, and ordinary projections of chimneys and
flues may extend into the required rear yard for a distance not to exceed three
and a half feet.
      (3)   Terraces, uncovered porches, pools, platforms and ornamental
features which do not exceed more than three feet above ground may project to
within two feet of a side lot line.
   (C)   Location of dwellings and buildings.
      (1)   Only one main structure for a single-family use with permitted
accessory buildings may be located upon a lot or unplatted tract. Every
dwelling shall front and face a street. Whenever a main building will not face
a street, the same may be permitted when a site plan is approved in a manner
established by applicable ordinance.
      (2)   Where a lot is used for multiple family dwellings, retail,
commercial or industrial purposes or any combination of these uses, more than
one main building may be located on the lot but only when such buildings
conform to all the open space, parking and density requirements applicable to
the uses and zoning district.
   (D)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings not exceeding 15 feet in
height may be erected to within ten feet of side and rear property lines. Such
buildings in excess of 15 feet in height shall observe the side and rear yard
requirements of the applicable zoning district.
   (E)   Fences, walls and similar barriers.
      (1)   No fence, wall or similar barrier may be located within a street
right-of-way.
      (2)   A fence, wall or similar barrier not exceeding three-and-a-half
feet in height may be located within the required front yard, provided however
that it shall be placed no closer than ten feet from the street (either back of
curb or pavement edge). The height of the fence, wall or similar barrier may be
extended to a maximum of eight feet on corner lots serving as an entryway into
a subdivision, provided that no primary entrance to the main structure on the
lot shall face towards the fence, wall or similar barrier.
      (3)   When no front yard is required by the applicable zoning district,
the building line established by the wall of a main structure closest to the
street right-of-way shall substitute as the required front yard for the
purposes of this division. However, when an opaque screening device is required
along the side and rear lot lines, the screening device shall be extended to
the required front yard of the adjoining property.
      (4)   Fences, walls and similar barriers may be erected along the side
and rear property lines.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.06  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   Any lawful use of property existing at the time of passage of this
chapter that does not conform to the regulations prescribed in the preceding
sections of this chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use.
      (2)   A nonconforming use of land or a structure may be continued;
however, when the nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of six months,
such use shall conclusively be deemed to have been abandoned and shall not be
resumed. Any future use of said premises shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. Normal seasonal cessation of a use, or temporary
discontinuance for purposes of maintenance or rebuilding after damage or
destruction as provided in this section, shall not be included in calculating
the period of discontinuance.
      (3)   If no structural alterations (except those required by law or
ordinance) are made, a nonconforming use may be extended throughout a building.
A nonconforming use of a building may be changed to another nonconforming use
of the same or more restrictive zoning classification provided no structural
alterations are made. In the event a nonconforming use of a building is changed
to a nonconforming use of a higher and more restrictive zoning classification,
it shall not later be reverted to a use in the former lower or less restrictive
zoning classification.
      (4)   If the structures accommodating or serving a nonconforming use are
damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion, flood, tornado, riot, or act of the
public enemy, the structure may be rebuilt in accordance with this section and
the nonconforming use may be resumed.
      (5)   The right of nonconforming uses to continue shall be subject to
such regulations as to the maintenance of the premises and conditions of
operation as may, in the judgment of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and
Appeals, be reasonably required for the protection of adjacent property.
   (B)   Nonconforming structures.
      (1)   A nonconforming structure may be continued and may be enlarged,
repaired, or altered provided such does not create an additional nonconformity
or increase the degree of existing nonconformity with respect to maximum
building height and minimum yard requirements. Any alteration or enlargement
shall not extend further into the required yard than the existing nonconforming
portion of the building. This provision shall apply separately to each yard
requirement with which the existing structure does not comply.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the restoration within a
period of six months of a nonconforming building or structure which has been
damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion, flood, tornado, riot, or act of the
public enemy. The restoration shall not create an additional nonconformity or
increase the degree of nonconformity established by the building or structure
that was damaged or destroyed. A nonconforming structure shall not be restored
in case of obsolescence or demolition.
   (C)   Effect of nonconforming designation.
      (1)   A request for nonconforming designation, or request for relief
under this designation, shall not create an estoppel of the trial of any
lawsuit which may be filed in any court. There is hereby created a Zoning Board
of Adjustments and Appeals consisting of five  members each to be appointed by
the City Council. The City Council shall also appoint four alternate members of
the Zoning Board of Adjustments and Appeals who shall serve in the absence of
one or more regular members when requested to do so by the Mayor or the City
Manager. The members and alternates of the Zoning Board of Adjustments and
Appeals shall be residents of the city property owners, and qualified voters of
the city. Three of the regular members shall be appointed for two-year terms
and two regular members shall initially be appointed for one-year terms and the
alternative members shall be appointed for two-year terms. Any member is
subject to removal for cause by City Council upon written charges and after
public hearings. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member
or alternate whose term becomes vacant. The Zoning Board of Adjustments and
Appeals may adopt rules to govern its proceedings, provided that such rules are
not inconsistent with this chapter. All cases to be heard by the Zoning Board
of Adjustments and Appeals will always be heard by a minimum of five members.
      (2)   All members present, including the Chairman, shall vote on every
motion. Any member of the Board present and refusing to vote shall be entered
into the minutes of such meeting as voting in the affirmative, provided
however, that a member of the Board shall not vote upon the consideration of
any matter involving his own official conduct or where his financial interest
is involved; in which event such member shall give his reasons for not voting
and such reasons shall be entered upon the minutes of the Board. Minutes of all
meetings of the Board shall be taken and recorded and such shall constitute a
public record. Meetings of the Zoning Board of Adjustments and Appeals may be
held at the call of the Chairman, who may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Zoning Board of Adjustments and
Appeals shall be open to the public.
      (3)   The Zoning Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall have the
following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of this chapter;
         (b)   Such appeals can be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board or department of municipality affected by any
decision of the administrative office. Such appeals shall be taken within 15
days time after the decision has been rendered by the administrative office, by
filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Zoning Board
of Adjustments and Appeals, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board
all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken. An appeal shall stay all proceedings upon the action appealed unless the
officer from whom the appeal is taken certified to the Zoning Board of
Adjustments and Appeals, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with
him, that by reason of acts, stated in the certificate, a case, proceedings
shall not be stayed, otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted
by the Board or by a court of record or application on notice to the officer
from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown;
         (c)   The Zoning Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall hear an appeal
within 30 days from date of filing notice of appeal, after public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest and decide the same
within 60 days from date of such hearing. Upon the hearing any party may appear
in person or by attorney or agent;
         (d)   To provide relief from the terms of this chapter when, because
of special circumstances applicable to the property, the strict application of
the zoning regulations will deprive such property the privileges enjoyed by
other property in the vicinity having the identical zoning classification. The
Board will ensure that any adjustment thereby authorized shall not constitute a
grant of special privileges inconsistent with the limitations upon other
properties in the vicinity and the district in which such property is situated;
         (e)   The Zoning Board of Adjustments and Appeals may grant a
variance, due to the unnecessary hardship, when it makes affirmative findings
of fact on each of the following criteria:
            1.   The hardship for which the variance is requested is unique to
the property and not general to the area in which the property is located; and
            2.   The variance will not alter the character of the area adjacent
to the property, will not impair the use of adjacent conforming property, and
will not impair the purposes or regulations of the zoning district in which the
property is located.
         (f)   It may be considered an unnecessary hardship when a lot of
record within a single-family zoning district does not meet the dimensional
requirement of that zoning district, and the application of the dimensional
requirements would deprive the property owner of a structure deemed common to
the majority of single-family residences and reasonably required for the
maintenance of the residence and for the protection of adjacent property;
         (g)   In exercising its powers, the Board may, in conformity with the
provisions of Articles 1001-A and including 1001-J of the 1925 Civil Statutes
of Texas, revise or reform wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirements, decision or determination as ought to be made and shall have all
the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken, provided however, that
the concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to revise
any order, requirements, decisions or determination of any such administrative
official; or to decide in favor of the application on any matter upon which it
is required to pass under this chapter or to affect any variances in said
ordinance; and
         (h)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any
decision of the Zoning Board of Adjustments and Appeals, or any officer,
department, or Board of the Municipality may present to court of record a
petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole
or in part, specifying the grounds of illegality. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within ten days after the filing of the decision in the
office of the Board and not thereafter.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.07  CHANGES AND ADMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council, by ordinance, may amend, supplement or change zoning
district boundaries or the regulations herein established. Any action by the
City Council to amend, supplement or change zoning district boundaries or other
regulations herein established, shall be made only after a public hearing
conducted by the Planning and Zoning Commission and receipt of a recommendation
from the Commission. The City Council shall also conduct a public hearing
before adopting any amendments, supplement, or change. Notwithstanding any
procedure established by the city to facilitate amendments, supplements, or
changes, the procedure shall comply with the minimum requirements established
by the State of Texas.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation having a proprietary interest in any
property may make application requesting an amendment, supplement or change to
a zoning district boundary or regulation, herein established. Such application
shall consist of all necessary information and documentation to adequately
convey the aspects of the request. The application shall be accompanied by the
filing fee in an amount established by the City Council.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission, on its own volition; at the
request of the City Council; or any city department, board, agency or other
commission, may study and proposed amendments, supplements, or changes to
zoning district boundaries or the regulations contained herein.
   (D)   Where the Planning and Zoning Commission is considering a change in
zoning or approval of a special use permit, the Commission may, within its
discretion, make the following recommendations to the City Council:
      (1)   Recommend approval of the change in zoning;
      (2)   Recommend denial of the change in zoning;
      (3)   Recommend denial of a special use permit; and
      (4)   Recommend approval of a special use permit, allowing a specific
use, within a higher classified zoning district. Conditions of operation,
location, arrangement and construction, may be established when deemed
important to the welfare and protection of adjacent property.
   (E)   If a proposed change to a regulation or boundary receives written
protest, being signed by the owners of at least 20% of the area of the lots and
land covered by the proposed change, or the area of the lots or land
immediately adjoining the area covered by the proposed change and extending 200
feet from that area, then a three-fourths affirmative vote of all the members
of the City Council shall be required in order to take effect. In computing the
percentage of land under protect, the area of streets and alleys shall be
included. Additionally, an affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of all
members of the City Council is required to overrule a recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Commission that a proposed change to a regulation or
boundary be denied in order for the change to take effect.
   (F)   The official zoning map of the city shall be kept in the City Planning
Department, and all changes in district boundaries shall be noted thereon
immediately after approval by the City Council. In those circumstances where a
request for a change in zoning or a request for approval of a special use
permit is denied by the Governing Body there may be no other submittal for
approval for the same property until a period of 12 months has passed. An
exception may be granted to this provision for applications that have undergone
substantial change. Substantial change is evidenced by the addition of a buffer
area between the applicant and the adjacent properties or the requested zoning
classification has been changed from the original application. Additionally, a
formal request can be made to the Planning and Zoning Commission to determine
whether the application has substantial change and warrants being rescheduled
for the Commission at a follow-up meeting. Requests for determinations of
substantial change will be listed as individual agenda items for the
Commission. This request must occur at a meeting separate from the hearing for
approval.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.08  NONCOMFORMITIES.
   (A)   Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments to this
chapter, there exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and
characteristics of use which were lawful before this chapter was enacted,
amended or otherwise made applicable to such lots, structures or uses, but
which do not conform to the regulations of the district in which they are
located. It is the intent of this section to permit such nonconformance to
continue, under regulations contained in this section, until they are removed,
but not to encourage their survival. Nonconforming uses are declared to be
incompatible with the permitted uses in the districts involved.
   (B)   It is further the intent of this section that nonconforming uses shall
not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as a basis for adding
other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district. Except as
provided in this section, no nonconforming use of land or buildings nor any
nonconforming structure shall be enlarged, changed, altered, or repaired except
in conformity with the regulations contained in this section.
   (C)   Any use or structure that does not conform with the regulations
contained in the zoning district in which it is located is deemed to be a legal
nonconforming use when:
      (1)   The use or structure was in existence and lawfully operating on
November 17, 2015 and has since been in regular and continuous use;
      (2)   The use or structure was lawfully being used at the time of the
adoption of any amendment to this chapter and by such amendment was placed in a
district where it is not otherwise permitted; or
      (3)   The use or structure was in existence at the time of annexation to
the city and has since been in regular and continuous use.
   (D)   The lawful use of land existing on November 17, 2015, although it does
not conform to the provisions in this chapter, may be continued until
termination is required in accordance with the provisions of this section.
During the period between designation as a nonconforming land use activity and
notification of a prescribed termination date, if discontinuance occurs, any
future use of the premises must be in conformity with the general provisions of
this chapter.
   (E)   A legal nonconforming use, when discontinued or abandoned, cannot be
resumed. Prima facie evidence of discontinuance or abandonment is as follows:
      (1)   When land associated with a legal nonconforming use ceases to be
used in such a manner for a period of 183 consecutive days;
      (2)   When a structure associated with a nonconforming use ceases to be
used in such a manner for a period of 183 consecutive days;
      (3)   Abandonment of a nonconforming use shall be determined by the Board
of Adjustment and may include a consideration of the following factors in
addition to the prima facie evidence of abandonment cited in division (E)(2) of
this section:
         (a)   The intent of the owner; or
         (b)   The apparent act of discontinuance as supported by evidence
submitted to the Board of Adjustment.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, operator or occupant to
provide proof that a nonconforming structure or use of land or building existed
prior to November 17, 2015.
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the restoration of a building
destroyed by fire, explosion, other casualty, act of God or a public enemy, nor
the continued occupancy or use of such a building or part that existed at the
time of such destruction. However, this allowance for the restoration of
damaged nonconforming property has no bearing on an approved amortization
schedule for the termination of nonconformance as described in this section.
   (H)   No nonconforming use or structure may be substituted for any other
nonconforming use or structure. Only the exact type of nonconforming use which
existed on the property on November 17, 2015, or uses permitted by right, or
approved conditional uses may be substituted for nonconforming uses or
structures.
   (I)   No nonconforming use or structure may be extended or enlarged and no
nonconforming use of land may be enlarged or increased to occupy a greater area
of land than was occupied at the time the site achieved nonconforming status.
   (J)   Nonconforming status is inherent in the property or use. The sale or
lease of a legally nonconforming parcel of property or structure shall in no
way limit the use of that property or structure for its legally nonconforming
use or activity; however, all other provisions of this section and this chapter
shall apply.
   (K)   The right to use a parcel of land or a structure in a nonconforming
manner shall terminate under any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   When the use is abandoned.
      (2)   When a nonconforming use is changed to a conforming use by means of
an amendment to the zoning text or map.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.09 SCHEDULE OF PERMITTED USES.
To see Schedule of Permitted Uses Table in pdf format, click_here
LEGEND
= Allowed by
right
SU = Requires
special use
permit
1 = At the
discretion of                                                                                                      PARKING RATIO
the PZ                                                                                                             OR MOST
Commission                 RG -        M - 1 -      M - 2 -      PUD -       NR -                                  CURRENT
2 =           AG -         RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTURED MANUFACTURED PLANNED     NEIGHBORHOOD C-         MD -          INSTITUTE OF
Definition    AGRICULTURAL SINGLE-     DWELLING     HOMES PARKS  UNIT        RETAIL       COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING TRANSPORTATION
provided                   FAMILY                                DEVELOPMENT                                       ENGINEERS
3 = Refer to                                                                                                       MANUAL
supplementary                                                                                                      (I.T.E.)
regulations
Red denotes
uses not
allowed
anywhere with
proposed
changes
LEGEND
= Allowed by
right
SU = Requires
special use
permit                                                                                                                PARKING RATIO
1 = At the                                                                                                            OR MOST
discretion of                 RG -                                  PUD -                                             CURRENT
the PZ           AG -         RESIDENTIAL M - 1 -      M - 2 -      PLANNED     NR -         C-         MD -          INSTITUTE OF
Commission       AGRICULTURAL SINGLE-     MANUFACTURED MANUFACTURED UNIT        NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING TRANSPORTATION
2 = Definition                FAMILY      DWELLING     HOMES PARKS  DEVELOPMENT RETAIL                                ENGINEERS
provided                                                                                                              MANUAL
3 = Refer to                                                                                                          (I.T.E.)
supplementary
regulations
Red denotes uses
not allowed
anywhere with
proposed changes
Accessory uses 2              T           T            T                        T            T          T             none
Acid manufacture                                                                                        SU            One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Adhesives and                                                                                                         One space:
sealant                                                                                                 SU            1,000 sq. ft.
manufacture
Aircraft parts                                                                                          T             One space:
manufacture                                                                                                           1,000 sq. ft.
Airplane repair                                                                                                       One space:
and                                                                                                     T             1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Airport or                    SU          SU           SU                       SU           SU         SU            One space: 500
landing field                                                                                                         sq. ft.
Ambulance                                                                                    T          T             One space: 500
service                                                                                                               sq. ft.
Animal kennel 2                                                                              SU         T             One space: 500
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Antique shop                                                                    T            T          T             One space: 200
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Any manufacture
or industrial
process not                                                                                             SU            One space:
listed and not                                                                                                        1,000 sq. ft.
prohibited by
law
Apparel shop                                                                    SU           T          T             One space: 200
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Aquarium                                                                        T            T          T             One space: 500
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Art gallery                                                                     T            T          T             One space: 500
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Artificial                                                                                                            One space:
flower                                                                                       T          T             1,000 sq. ft.
manufacture
Asphalt paving                                                                                                        One space:
and roofing                                                                                             SU            1,000 sq. ft.
materials
Auction house                                                                                T          T             One space: 100
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Auto parts sale                                                                                                       One space: 200
(no outside                                                                                  T          T             sq. ft.
storage/display
Auto parts sale                                                                                                       One space: 200
(outside                                                                                     SU         SU            sq. ft.
storage/display
Automobile                                                                                              T             One space:
assembly                                                                                                              1,000 sq. ft.
Automobile parts                                                                                        T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Automobile sales                                                                             T          T             One space: 300
2, 3                                                                                                                  sq. ft.
Automobile                                                                                                            One space: 200
service                                                                         SU           T          T             sq. ft.
station 2
                                                                                                                      Three spaces:
Automobile wash                                                                 SU           T          T             washing
2                                                                                                                     capacity of
                                                                                                                      module
Automobile                                                                                                            One space: 500
repair (no                                                                                   T          T             sq. ft.
outside work) 2
Automobile                                                                                                            One space:
repair (outside                                                                              SU         T             1,000 sq. ft.
work) 2
Awning
manufacture -                                                                                T          T             One space:
cloth, metal,                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
wood
Bag                                                                                                                   One space:
manufacturing                                                                                SU         T             1,000 sq. ft.
and cleaning
Bakery - retail                                                                                                       One space: 200
(inside service                                                                 T            T          T             sq. ft.
only)
Bakery - retail                                                                                                       One space: 200
(with drive-                                                                    SU           T          T             sq. ft.
thru)
Bank equipment                                                                               SU         T             One space:
manufacture                                                                                                           1,000 sq. ft.
Barber and                                                                      T            T          T             One space: 200
beauty shop                                                                                                           sq. ft.
Battery                                                                                                 SU            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
                                                                                                                      Three spaces
Bed and                       SU          SU           SU                       SU           T          T             plus one
breakfast 2                                                                                                           space: guest
                                                                                                                      room
Bird and pet                                                                    S U          T          T             One space: 200
shops                                                                                                                 sq. ft.
Bleachery                                                                                               SU            One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Bleach powder                                                                                           SU            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
                                                                                                                      Two spaces
Boarding and                  SU          SU           SU                       SU           T          T             plus one
lodging house 2                                                                                                       space: guest
                                                                                                                      room
Boiler                                                                                                                One space:
manufacture and                                                                                         T             1,000 sq. ft.
repair
Boiler works                                                                                            SU            One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Bolts, nuts,
screws, rivets                                                                               SU         T             One space:
and washer                                                                                                            1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Book or                                                                                                               One space: 200
stationery shop                                                                 T            T          T             sq. ft.
(retail only)
Bottling works                                                                               T          T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Bowling alley                                                                                T          T             Four spaces:
                                                                                                                      lane
Broom                                                                                        SU         T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Bus or truck                                                                                 T          T             One space:
storage                                                                                                               1,000 sq. ft.
Business service                                                                S U          T          T             One space: 200
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Cabinet or                                                                                   T          T             One space: 500
fixture shop                                                                                                          sq. ft.
Camera, photo                                                                                                         One space: 200
supply and film                                                                 T            T          T             sq. ft.
developing
Campground 2     SU                                                                                                   none
Candy                                                                                        T          T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Candy, cigars,                                                                                                        One space: 200
tobacco (retail                                                                 T            T          T             sq. ft.
only)
Candy and                                                                                                             One space:
preserving                                                                                   SU         T             1,000 sq. ft.
factory
Canvas and                                                                                                            One space:
related products                                                                             T          T             1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Carpenter shop                                                                               T          T             One space: 500
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Carpet and rug                                                                               T          T             One space:
cleaning plant                                                                                                        1,000 sq. ft.
Casein                                                                                                  SU            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Catering service                                                                T            T          T             One space: 500
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Cattle feedlot                                                                                                        One space:
                                                                                                                      5,000 sq. ft.
Celluloid and                                                                                                         One space:
cellulose                                                                                               T             1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Cement                                                                                                  SU            One space:
manufacture                                                                                                           1,000 sq. ft.
Ceramic products                                                                             T          T             One space: 500
manufacturing                                                                                                         sq. ft.
Chalk                                                                                                   SU            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Chemicals                                                                                                             One space:
(agriculture)                                                                                           SU            1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Chemicals                                                                                                             One space:
(industrial)                                                                                            SU            1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
                                                                                                                      One space:
Church 2         T            T           T            T                        T            T          T             Four seats in
                                                                                                                      sanctuary
Clinic 2                                                                        T            T          T             One space: 300
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Clothing                                                                                     T          T             One space: 500
manufacture                                                                                                           sq. ft.
Club/social
organization     SU                                                                                                   none
(children) 2
Coal                                                                                                    SU            One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Coffin                                                                                       SU         T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Cold storage                                                                                 T          T             One space:
plants                                                                                                                1,000 sq. ft.
Commercial                                                                                                            Determined by
amusement -                                                                                  SU         SU            Planning and
outdoor                                                                                                               Zoning
Commercial                                                                                                            One space: 100
amusement -                                                                                  T          T             sq. ft.
indoor
Commercial                                                                                                            One space:
laundry and                                                                                  T          T             1,000 sq. ft.
cleaning plants
Community or     T            SU          SU           T                        T            T          T             One space: 300
social buildings                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Concrete mixing                                                                                                       One space:
and batching                                                                                            SU            5,000 sq. ft.
plant                                                                                                                 of land
Concrete mixing                                                                                                       One space:
and batching                                                                                            T             5,000 sq. ft.
plant (dust free                                                                                                      of land
conveyers)                                                                                                             
Construction                                                                                                          One space:
contractor -                                                                                 T          T             1,000 sq. ft.
storage yard
Corrugated metal                                                                                        SU            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Cotton ginning,                                                                                                       One space:
bailing and                                                                                             T             1,000 sq. ft.
compress
Cotton oil mill                                                                                         T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Country club     T                                                                                                    none
(private)
Crematory                                                                                               SU            One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Culvert                                                                                                 SU            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Cutlery, hand
tools and                                                                                    SU         T             One space:
hardware                                                                                                              1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Dairy products                                                                                                        One space:
(no ice cream)                                                                               SU         T             1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Daycare 2        SU                                                             SU           T          T             One space:
                                                                                                                      three children
Day nursery 2                 T           T                                     T            T          T             Two spaces
Department store                                                                SU           T          T             One space: 200
- retail only                                                                                                         sq. ft.
Dextrin                                                                                                 SU            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Distillation of                                                                                                       One space:
liquors,                                                                                                SU            1,000 sq. ft.
spirits, etc.
Drinking                                                                                     SU         SU            One space: 100
establishment 2                                                                                                       sq. ft.
Drive-in theater                                                                             SU         SU            One space:
                                                                                                                      speaker
Driving range                                                                                T          T             Two spaces:
                                                                                                                      tee box
Drug store -                                                                    SU           T          T             One space: 200
retail only                                                                                                           sq. ft.
Dwelling -                                                                                                            Two spaces:
manufactured                              T            T                                                              dwelling
home 2
Dwelling -                                                                                                            Two spaces:
multiple family                                                                 T            T          T             dwelling
2, 3
Dwelling -       T            T           T                                     T            T          T             Two spaces:
single family 2                                                                                                       dwelling
Dwelling - two-                                                                 T            T          T             Two spaces:
family 2                                                                                                              dwelling
Dye                                                                                                     T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Dyeing plant                                                                                 T          T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Eating
establishment                                                                   T            T          T             One space: 150
(inside services                                                                                                      sq. ft.
only) 2
Eating
establishment                                                                   SU           T          T             One space: 150
(with drive-                                                                                                          sq. ft.
thru) 2
Electric lamp                                                                                SU         T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Electric power                                                                                          T             One space:
plant                                                                                                                 1,000 sq. ft.
Electric                      SU          SU           SU                       SU           SU         T             One space:
substation                                                                                                            1,000 sq. ft.
Electrical
repair -                                                                                                              One space:
domestic                                                                                                              1,000 sq. ft.
equipment and
auto
Electrical                                                                                                            One space:
supply                                                                                       SU         T             1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Electro-plating                                                                              T          T             One space:
or - typing                                                                                                           1,000 sq. ft.
Electronic goods                                                                SU           T          T             One space: 200
- retail only                                                                                                         sq. ft.
Elevator                                                                                                T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Enameling and                                                                                SU         T             One space:
painting                                                                                                              1,000 sq. ft.
Engine                                                                                                                One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Engraving plant                                                                              T          T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Envelope                                                                                     T          T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Exterminating                                                                   SU           T          T             One space: 300
company                                                                                                               sq. ft.
Farm or orchard
(no size                                                                        T            T          T             none
requirement)
Farm/garden                                                                                                           One space:
machinery and                                                                                           T             1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Fats and oils                                                                                                         One space:
(animal)                                                                                                              1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Feed                                                                                                    T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Feed store                                                                                   T          T             One space: 500
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Felt                                                                                                    SU            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Financial                                                                                                             One space: 300
institutions -                                                                  SU           T          T             sq. ft.
no motor bank
Financial                                                                                                             One space: 300
institutions -                                                                  SU           T          T             sq. ft.
motor bank
Fix-it shops:
bike repair, saw                                                                                                      One space: 500
filing, mower                                                                                T          T             sq. ft.
sharpening (no
outdoor storage)
Fix-it shops:
bike repair, saw
filing, mower                                                                                SU         T             One space: 500
sharpening                                                                                                            sq. ft.
(outdoor
storage)
Florist - retail                                                                T            T          T             One space: 200
only                                                                                                                  sq. ft.
Flour and other                                                                                         T             One space:
grain mills                                                                                                           1,000 sq. ft.
Food processing                                                                                         T             One space:
2                                                                                                                     1,000 sq. ft.
Footwear                                                                                     SU         T             One space: 500
manufacturing                                                                                                         sq. ft.
Foundry - all                                                                                                         One space:
types                                                                                                                 1,000 sq. ft.
Fraternity or                 SU          SU           SU                       SU           T          T             Two spaces:
sorority house                                                                                                        bedroom
Fur/hide tanning                                                                                        SU            One space:
and finishing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Furnace                                                                                                               One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Furniture and                                                                                                         One space: 500
appliance store                                                                              T          T             sq. ft.
- retail only
Furniture and                                                                                                         One space:
fixture                                                                                      SU         T             1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Furniture repair
and upholstering                                                                             T          T             One space:
- retail, inside                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
storage
Garage or yard                T           T            T                        T            T          T             none
sales
Gases                                                                                                                 One space:
(industrial)                                                                                            SU            1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Gift or card                                                                                                          One space: 200
shop - retail                                                                   T            T          T             sq. ft.
only
Glucose                                                                                                 SU            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Golf course                   SU          SU           SU                       SU           SU         SU            Six spaces:
                                                                                                                      hole
Grocery store                                                                   T            T          T             One space: 200
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Hair products                                                                                                         One space:
factory (non-                                                                                           SU            1,000 sq. ft.
human)
Hardware                                                                                     SU         T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Health club                                                                     SU           T          T             One space: 300
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Hobby supply                                                                                                          One space: 200
store - retail                                                                  T            T          T             sq. ft.
only
Home occupations              T           T            T                        T            T          T             none
2
Hospital 2                                                                                   T          T             One space: bed
                                                                                                                      One space:
Hotel and motel                                                                                                       room + one
2                                                                                            T          T             space: 200 sq.
                                                                                                                      ft. of common
                                                                                                                      facilities
Ice / cream                                                                                  T          T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Indoor
commercial                                                                                   T          T             One space: 200
recreation and                                                                                                        sq. ft.
entertainment
Institutions of
religious,                                                                                                            One space: 200
educational or                SU          SU           SU                       SU           SU         SU            sq. ft.
philanthropic
nature
Iron works -                                                                                 SU         T             One space:
ornamental                                                                                                            1,000 sq. ft.
Japanning and                                                                                                         One space:
shellacking                                                                                             SU            1,000 sq. ft.
works
Jewelry store                                                                   SU           T          T             One space: 200
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Junk yard 2, 3                                                                                                        Five spaces:
                                                                                                                      acre
Kalsomine                                                                                               SU            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Kerosene                                                                                                              One space:
manufacturing                                                                                           SU            1,000 sq. ft.
and storage
Laundromat 2                                                                    T            T          T             One space: 200
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Laundry and                                                                                                           One space: 200
cleaning pickup                                                                 T            T          T             sq. ft.
station - retail
Law office
(limited to
three attorneys                                                                                                       Existing
with support
staff)
Leather products                                                                             T          T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Library, rental                                                                 SU           T          T             One space: 300
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Loading or                                                                                   T          T             none
storage tracks
Lumber mill                                                                                             SU            One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Lumber yard                                                                                  T          T             One space: 500
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Machine shop                                                                                 T          T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Machinery                                                                                    SU         T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Manufactured                                                                                 T          T             One space:
home sales                                                                                                            5,000 sq. ft.
Marble working                                                                               SU         SU            One space:
and finishing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Market, open                                                                                 T          T             One space: 200
air, flea                                                                                                             sq. ft.
Mattress -                                                                                                            One space:
making and                                                                                   T          T             1,000 sq. ft.
renovating
Meat and fish                                                                   T            T          T             One space: 200
market                                                                                                                sq. ft.
Meat packing                                                                                            SU            One space:
plant                                                                                                                 1,000 sq. ft.
Medical office
(limited to
three                                                                                                                 Existing
practitioners
with support
staff)
Metal cans and
shopping                                                                                     SU         SU            One space:
containers                                                                                                            1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Metal products,                                                                                                       One space:
stamping and                                                                                 SU         T             1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Milk depot -                                                                                 T          T             One space:
wholesale                                                                                                             1,000 sq. ft.
Miniature golf                                                                               T          T             Three spaces:
course                                                                                                                hole
Mirror silvering                                                                             T          T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Mortuary                                                                                     T          T             One space:
                                                                                                                      four seats
Motion picture                                                                                                        One space: 300
studios -                                                                                    T          T             sq. ft.
commercial films
Motion picture                                                                               T          T             One space:
theater                                                                                                               four seats
Motor freight                                                                                                         One space:
transport and                                                                                T          T             1,000 sq. ft.
storage
Moving and                                                                                   T          T             One space:
storage company                                                                                                       1,000 sq. ft.
News printing                                                                                T          T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Nursery/                                                                                                              One space:
greenhouse                                                                                   T          T             1,000 sq. ft.
                                                                                                                      of sales area
Office equipment                                                                             SU         T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Office,                                                                                                               One space: 300
professional                                                                    T            T          T             sq. ft.
business
Oil compounding                                                                                         SU            One space:
and barreling                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Oilcloth                                                                                                SU            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Optical good                                                                                 T          T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Orthopedic,
prosthetic,
surgical                                                                                     T          T             One space:
appliances and                                                                                                        1,000 sq. ft.
supplies
manufacturing
Paint                                                                                                                 One space:
manufacturing                                                                                           SU            1,000 sq. ft.
and mixing
Paint mixing -
excludes                                                                                                              One space:
cooking, baking,                                                                             T          T             1,000 sq. ft.
varnish or
lacquers
Paint and                                                                                    T          T             One space: 500
refinishing shop                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Paper products                                                                                                        One space:
and paper box                                                                                T          T             1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Park - public or T                                                                                                    none
private
Parking lot or                SU          SU           SU                       SU           T          T             none
garage
Pattern shop                                                                                 SU         T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Pecan processing                                                                             SU         T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Penal or                                                                                                              One space: 500
correctional                                                                                 T          T             sq. ft.
institute
Petroleum and                                                                                                         One space:
petroleum                                                                                                             1,000 sq. ft.
refining
Petroleum                                                                                               T             One space:
products storage                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Pharmacy -                                                                      T            T          T             One space: 200
retail only                                                                                                           sq. ft.
Photo engraving                                                                              T          T             One space:
plant                                                                                                                 1,000 sq. ft.
Photographer’s                                                                T            T          T             One space: 300
studio                                                                                                                sq. ft.
Piano and
musical                                                                                      T          T             One space: 200
instruments -                                                                                                         sq. ft.
retail
Planing mill                                                                                            T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Plastic products                                                                                                      One space:
- molding,                                                                                   T          T             1,000 sq. ft.
casting, shaping
Poultry hatchery                                                                                        T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Poultry                                                                                                               One space:
slaughter and                                                                                           T             1,000 sq. ft.
processing
Print/copy shop                                                                 SU           T          T             One space: 200
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Printing                                                                                                              One space: 500
equipment,                                                                                   T          T             sq. ft.
supplies, repair
Printing ink                                                                                            T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
                                                                                                                      See
Private club 2                SU          SU           SU                       SU           SU         SU            appropriate
                                                                                                                      use
Public assembly
(auditorium,                                                                                 T          T             One space:
gymnasium,                                                                                                            four seats
stadium, etc.)
Public building                                                                                                       See
- city, county,  SU           SU          SU           SU                       SU           SU         SU            appropriate
state or federal                                                                                                      use
government
Public park -    T            T           T            T                        T            T          T             none
playground
Public utility                SU          SU           SU                       S U          S U        T             none
installations
Publishing and                                                                                                        One space: 500
printing                                                                                     T          T             sq. ft.
companies
Radio,
television and                SU          SU           SU                       SU           SU         SU            none
communication
towers
Rag treatment or
manufacturing                                                                                S U        T             One space:
products from                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
rags
Railroad yards -                                                                                                      One space:
round house or                                                                                          T             1,000 sq. ft.
shop
Recreational                                                                                                          One-and-a-half
vehicle                                                                                      SU         SU            space: RV pad
park 2
Reduction of
fats, ores,                                                                                                           One space:
metals, garbage,                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
offal, etc.
                                                                                                                      One space:
Residential                                                                                                           Three beds
health care                                                                                  SU         SU            One-and-a-half
facility 2                                                                                                            spaces:
                                                                                                                      dwelling
Retail store for                                                                                                      One space: 200
custom work - on                                                                S U          T          T             sq. ft.
premises
Rice cleaning                                                                                                         One space:
and polishing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Riding academy                                                                                                        One space:
or commercial                 SU          SU           SU                       SU           SU         T             five stalls
stable 2
Rock quarries,                                                                                                        One space:
sand, gravel,                 SU          SU           SU                       SU           SU         SU            acre
earth excavation
Rock wool                                                                                               T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Rug                                                                                          SU         T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Salvage store                                                                                           SU            Five spaces:
yard 2, 3                                                                                                             acre
Sanitary                                                                                                SU            One space: ten
landfill                                                                                                              acres
                                                                                                                      Ten spaces:
School - college T            T           T            T                        T            T          T             classroom +
or university                                                                                                         two spaces:
                                                                                                                      office
                                                                                                                      Two spaces:
School -         T            T           T            T                        T            T          T             classroom +
elementary                                                                                                            one space:
                                                                                                                      office
                                                                                                                      Eight spaces:
School - high    T            T           T            T                        T            T          T             classroom +
school                                                                                                                two spaces:
                                                                                                                      office
                                                                                                                      Three spaces:
School - junior  T            T           T            T                        T            T          T             classroom +
high                                                                                                                  two spaces:
                                                                                                                      office
School - other   T                                                                           T          T             Same as others
School -         T                                                                           T          T             One space:
vocational 2                                                                                                          student
Scrap metal                                                                                                           Five spaces:
storage yard 2,                                                                                         SU            acre
3
Seamstress,                                                                                                           One space: 200
dressmaker,                                                                     T            T          T             sq. ft.
tailor - retail
Seed store                                                                                   T          T             One space: 500
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Sheet metal shop                                                                             T          T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Shellac and                                                                                                           One space:
varnish                                                                                                 SU            1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
                                                                                                                      One space:
Sheltered care                                                                                                        three beds or
facility 2                                                                                   SU         SU            one-and-a-half
                                                                                                                      spaces:
                                                                                                                      dwelling
Shoe repair shop                                                                T            T          T             One space: 200
- retail                                                                                                              sq. ft.
Shoe store -                                                                    T            T          T             One space: 200
retail                                                                                                                sq. ft.
Signs                         T           T            T                        T            T          T             none
Skating rink                                                                                 T          T             One space: 200
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Snuff                                                                                                   SU            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Soap,
detergents,                                                                                             SU            One space:
cleaning                                                                                                              1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Starch                                                                                                  SU            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Steel mill                                                                                                            One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Steel works,
blast furnaces                                                                                                        One space:
and rolling                                                                                                           1,000 sq. ft.
mills
Stone cutting or                                                                                        SU            One space:
crushing                                                                                                              1,000 sq. ft.
Stone monument                                                                               T          T             One space:
engraving                                                                                                             1,000 sq. ft.
Stone monuments                                                                              T          T             One space: 500
retail                                                                                                                sq. ft.
Stone, clay,
glass, concrete                                                                                         SU            One space:
products                                                                                                              1,000 sq. ft.
manufacturing
Storage facility                                                                                                      One space: ten
- self- service                                                                              T          T             units
2
Storage of                                                                                                            One space:
cement, sand and                                                                             T          T             5,000 sq. ft.
gravel                                                                                                                of storage
                                                                                                                      area
Storage of used                                                                                                       One space:
lumber and                                                                                   SU         T             5,000 sq. ft.
building                                                                                                              of storage
materials                                                                                                             area
Studios - art,
dance, music,                                                                   SU           T          T             One space: 200
drama, health,                                                                                                        sq. ft.
massage
Studio for
display and sale                                                                                                      One space: 200
of glass, china,                                                                SU           T          T             sq. ft.
art, cloth and
draperies
Tattoo parlor                                                                                T          T             One space: 200
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Taxi cab storage                                                                             T          T             One space: 500
and repair                                                                                                            sq. ft.
Taxi stand                                                                                   T          T             One space: 500
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Team tracks and
unloading docks,                                                                             T          T             none
railroad
Telephone                     T           T            T                        T            T          T             One space: 500
exchange                                                                                                              sq. ft.
Temporary                     T           T            T                        T            T          T             none
buildings 2
Temporary                                                                                                             Determined by
commercial                    1           1            1                        1            T          T             Planning and
amusement                                                                                                             Zoning
Textile products                                                                             SU         T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Tire retreading                                                                              T          T             One space:
and recapping                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Transit terminal                                                                             T          T             One space: 500
                                                                                                                      sq. ft.
Truck terminal                                                                               T          T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Trunk                                                                                        T          T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Veterinary                                                                                   SU         T             One space: 500
hospital 2                                                                                                            sq. ft.
Warehouse                                                                                    T          T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
Waste paper                                                                                                           One space: 200
products                                                                                                SU            sq. ft.
manufacturing
Water                                                                                        T          T             One space:
distillation                                                                                                          1,000 sq. ft.
Wedding chapel                                                                               T          T             One space:
                                                                                                                      four seats
Welding shop                                                                                 T          T             One space:
                                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
White lead                                                                                                            One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Wholesale trade                                                                                                       One space: 500
- nondurable                                                                                 T          T             sq. ft.
goods
Wood container                                                                               T          T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Wood
distillation -
manufacturing of                                                                                        SU            One space:
tar, charcoal,                                                                                                        1,000 sq. ft.
turpentine and
similar products
Wood preserving                                                                                                       One space:
manufacturing                                                                                           SU            1,000 sq. ft.
and treatment
Wood products                                                                                T          T             One space:
manufacturing                                                                                                         1,000 sq. ft.
Wood working                                                                                 T          T             One space:
shops                                                                                                                 1,000 sq. ft.
Wrecking                                                                                                SU            One space:
materials yard 3                                                                                                      1,000 sq. ft.
 
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
DISTRICTS
§ 156.20  DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Districts. The city is hereby divided into eight types of districts.
These shall be known as:
      (1)   AG - Agricultural District;
      (2)   R - Residential Single-Family Dwelling District;
      (3)   M-1 - Manufactured Dwelling District;
      (4)   M-2 - Manufactured Homes Park District;
      (5)   PUD - Planned Unit Development District;
      (6)   NR - Neighborhood Retail District;
      (7)   C - Commercial District; and
      (8)   MD - Manufacturing District
   (B)   No land shall be used for and no building shall be erected for or
converted to any use other than provided in the regulations prescribed for the
district in which it is located, except hereinafter provided. No building
hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be used, occupied or changed in
use until a Certificate of Occupancy and Compliance shall have been issued by
the Building Official stating that the building or proposed use of a building
or premises complies with the building laws and the provisions of these
regulations. A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office
of the Building Official.
   (C)   It is recognized that new types of land use will develop and that
forms of land use not anticipated will seek to locate in the city. In such
circumstances, a determination as to the appropriate classification of any new
or unlisted form of land use shall be made as follows:
      (1)   All questions concerning the classification of any new or unlisted
uses shall be referred to the Director of Planning for a determination as to
the zoning classification into which such use should be placed. The Director of
Planning shall consider the nature and character of the proposed use and its
compatibility and similarity with the uses permitted in the various districts
and determine the zoning district or districts within which such use should be
permitted;
      (2)   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals is authorized to hear and
decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any decision or
determination regarding the classification of a new or unlisted use or
regulation thereof by the Director of Planning;
      (3)   The Director of Planning shall, furthermore, transmit to the
Planning and Zoning Commission any recommendation for addition of any new or
heretofore unlisted use to this chapter. Addition of any use to any
classification shall be by amendment to this chapter; and
      (4)   A revised §
156.09 which includes all additions made to the uses permitted in the several
zoning classifications shall be published as needed.
   (D)   Boundaries. The boundaries of these districts are indicated upon the
zoning map of the city, which is on file in the Planning Department and made a
part of this chapter, the same as if copied in full herein. Where uncertainty
exists with respect to the boundaries of the various districts, as shown on the
map accompanying and made a part of this chapter, the following rules apply:
      (1)   The district boundaries are street, alley, and property lines
unless otherwise shown, and where the districts designated on the map
accompanying and made part of this chapter are bounded approximately by street,
alley, or property lines; the street, alley, or property lines shall be
construed to be the boundary of the district;
      (2)   Where the district boundaries are otherwise indicated, and where
the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be property lines, and where the
districts designated on the map accompanying and made a part of this chapter
are bounded approximately by lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be
the boundary of the districts unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on
the map;
      (3)   In un-subdivided property, the district boundary lines on the map
accompanying and made part of this chapter shall be determined by use of the
scale appearing on the map;
      (4)   In case of a district boundary line dividing a platted lot into two
parts, the district boundary line shall be construed to be the property line
nearest the less restrictive district; and
      (5)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by
official action of the City Council, the zoning district adjoining each side of
such street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center
of such vacancy and all area included in the vacancy shall then and henceforth
be subject to all regulations of the extended district.
   (E)   Annexation holding zone. All land annexed into the jurisdiction of the
city shall be zoned in the agriculture zone. The agriculture zone shall serve
as the default zone for all land annexed after passed of this chapter, though
application may be made by the owner for rezoning of the property concurrently
with the annexation.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.21 AG - AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide a location for land situated on the fringe of an
urban area and to permit the use of land for ranching, propagation and
cultivation of crops and similar uses of vacant land or sparsely populated
property. It is anticipated that Agricultural zoned land will eventually be
rezoned to another zoning classification. The AG - Agriculture District is also
appropriate for areas where development is premature due to lack of utilities
or city services; to preserve areas that are unsuitable for development due to
problems that may present hazards such as flooding, in which case the AG zoning
designation should be retained until such hazards are mitigated and the land is
rezoned to provide permanent open space areas as buffers around uses that might
otherwise be objectionable or pose environmental health hazards.
   (B)   District development regulations.
      (1)   All general and special agricultural, farming, ranching, stables,
stock and poultry raising, dairy and other related uses are allowed so long as
the same do not cause a hazard to health by reason of unsanitary conditions and
no offence by reason of odors, dust fumes, noise or vibrations.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles, travel trailers or motors homes may not be
used for on-site dwelling purposes.
      (3)   Residential structures shall be limited to one structure per lot.
Provisions for additional residential uses in support of the agricultural
activity of the property may be reviewed and approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   (C)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard. A minimum front yard setback of 25 feet shall be
required between any residential structure and the front property line.
      (2)   Side yard. A minimum side yard setback of seven feet shall be
required between all residential structures and the side property line.
      (3)   Rear yard. A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet shall be
required between any residential structure and the rear property line.
      (4)   Area of lot. A minimum lot area of 32,670 square feet, or three-
quarters of an acre, shall be required.
      (5)   Width of lot. Each lot shall have a minimum of 25 feet of frontage
on a dedicated public street.
      (6)   Height restrictions. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height.
   (D)   Supplementary regulations.
      (1)   The first 50 feet of property adjacent to the public right-of-way
and ten feet adjacent to any property line shall be maintained. Restrictions
concerning maximum height of grass shall not apply to the remainder of the
property in the AG - Agriculture District.
      (2)   Regulations of discharge of weapon shall be stated in Tex. Loc.
Gov’t Code § 229.002. A municipality may not apply a regulation relating to the
discharge of firearms or other weapons in the extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the municipality or in an area annexed by the municipality after September 1,
1981, if the firearm or other weapon is:
         (a)   A shotgun, air rifle or pistol, BB gun, or bow and arrow
discharged:
            1.   On a tract of land of ten acres or more and more than 150 feet
from a residence or occupied building located on another property; and
            2.   In a manner not reasonably expected to cause a projectile to
cross the boundary of the tract.
         (b)   A center fire or rim fire rifle or pistol of any caliber
discharged:
            1.   On a tract of land of 50 acres or more and more than 300 feet
from a residence or occupied building located on another property; and
            2.   In a manner not reasonably expected to cause a projectile to
cross the boundary of the tract.
         (c)   Burning of plant materials shall be permitted on properties in
excess of ten acres. In the event that a burn ban is in place for Hardin
County, eligible properties shall not burn plant materials until the ban has
been lifted;
         (d)   Noise restrictions shall not be applied to the noise generated
by the operation of agriculture equipment used in the routine operation of
property in excess of one acre; and
         (e)   The display or processing of large animal carcasses shall be
blocked from the visibility of the right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015; Ord. - -, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 156.22  R - RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Use regulations. In an R - Residential Single-Family Dwelling
District, no land shall be used and no building shall be erected for or
converted to any use other than those listed in the §
156.09 for this district.
   (B)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height.
   (C)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard, on the addressed street, with a
minimum depth not less than 25  feet.
         (b)   Where lots have a double frontage, running through from one
street to another, or on a corner lot, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
      (2)   Side yard. There shall be two side yards with a width of not less
than seven feet each. Exception: corner lots.
      (3)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard with a depth of not less than
ten feet.
      (4)   Area of lot. The minimum area of the lot shall be 7,000 square
feet; however, a lot having an area of less than 7,000 square feet that was of
record prior to the passage of this chapter may be used for any use permitted
in this section provided the requirements of divisions (C)(1) - (3) and (7) are
met.
      (5)   Width of lot. The minimum width of the lot, whenever measured at
the required front yard setback line (established by ordinance) shall not be
less than 70 feet.
      (6)   Depth of lot. The minimum lot depth of the lot shall be 100 feet.
      (7)   Area of dwelling. Eight hundred and fifty square feet shall be the
minimum living area of a dwelling in this zoning district. Garages and porches
(covered or enclosed) are not included in the square footage calculations when
determining the dwelling size.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015; Ord. - -, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 156.23  M-1 - MANUFACTURED DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Use regulations. In an M-1 - Manufactured Dwelling District, no land
shall be used and no building shall be erected for or converted to any use
other than those listed in §
156.09 for this district.
   (B)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height.
   (C)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard, on the addressed street, with a
minimum depth not less than 25 feet.
         (b)   Where lots have a double frontage, running through from one
street to another, or on a corner lot, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
      (2)   Side yard. There shall be two side yards with a width of not less
than 16 feet each. Exception: corner lots.
      (3)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard with a depth of not less than
ten feet.
      (4)   Area of lot. The minimum area of the lot shall 7,500 square feet;
however, a lot having an area of less than 7,500 square feet that was of record
prior to the passage of this chapter may be used for any use permitted in this
section provided the requirements of divisions (C)(1) - (3) and (7) of this
section are met.
      (5)   Width of lot. The minimum width of the lot, whenever measured at
the required front yard setback line (established by ordinance) shall not be
less than 75 feet.
      (6)   Depth of lot. The minimum lot depth of the lot shall be 100 feet.
      (7)   Area of dwelling. Eight hundred and fifty square feet shall be the
minimum living area of a dwelling in this zoning district. Garages and porches
(covered or enclosed) are not included in the square footage calculations when
determining the dwelling size.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.24 M-2 - MANUFACTURED HOMES PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   Use regulations. In an M-2 - Manufactured Home Park District, no land
shall be used and no building shall be erected for or converted to any use
other than those listed in the §
156.09 for this district.
   (B)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height.
   (C)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard with a minimum depth of not less
than ten feet when fronting a private street. Where a yard abuts a public
right-of-way, the minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet.
         (b)   Where lots have a double frontage, running through from one
street to another, or on a corner lot adjacent to a public right-of-way, the
required front yard shall be provided on both streets.
         (c)   Manufactured homes shall be located no closer than 20 feet from
the front exterior wall of a mobile home to the closest wall of the adjacent
mobile home.
      (2)   Side yard. Manufactured homes shall be located no closer than 16
feet from either exterior side wall to the closest exterior side of the nearest
mobile home. Exception: corner lots.
      (3)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard with a depth of not less than
ten feet. Manufactured homes shall be located no closer than 20 feet from the
rear exterior wall of a mobile home to the closest wall of the adjacent mobile
home.
      (4)   Density. No manufactured home spark shall provide less than 20 
spaces; and there shall not be more than six spaces per gross acre within the
park.
      (5)   Area of spaces. Each manufactured home space shall provide a
minimum area of 3,500 square feet.
      (6)   Area of dwelling. Eight hundred and fifty square feet shall be the
minimum living area of a dwelling in this zoning district. Garages and porches
(covered or enclosed) are not included in the square footage calculations when
determining the dwelling size.
      (7)   Access. The park shall have an entrance drive from a public right-
of-way, and access to individual spaces shall be from private paves drives
within the site. The width, design, and construction of the drives shall be
adequate to accommodate the traffic generated by the park and emergency and
service vehicles, as determined by the City Planning Director. In no case shall
the width of a driving surface area be less than 26 feet.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.25 PUD - PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   General purpose and applicability. The purpose of this district is to
encourage better and more efficient utilization of land in the city by allowing
greater flexibility in the planning and development of projects. When
integrally designed, land uses such as industrial parks, office or commercial
districts, mixed or uniform residential development, or any combination of uses
may be established when four acres or more are available for unified
development.
   (B)   Use regulations. A Planned Unit Development district may be approved
with any use or combination of uses allowed by this chapter. These uses
permitted in any specific Planned Unit Development district shall be enumerated
in this chapter establishing such district, along with any conditions or
limitations deemed appropriate for the specific uses.
   (C)   Area and height regulations. Each Planned Unit Development shall
establish regulations deemed necessary and appropriate for the development of
the property within the district and the protection of neighboring properties.
These regulations may include, but shall not be limited to:
      (1)   Front, side and rear yard requirements;
      (2)   Minimum lot width, depth, and area requirements;
      (3)   Maximum lot coverage;
      (4)   Maximum building size and/or height;
      (5)   Landscape, open space and screening requirements;
      (6)   Off-street parking and loading requirements; and
      (7)    Signage requirements.
   (D)   Procedure for approval of a planned unit development. An application
to designate an area as a Planned Unit Development District shall be
accompanied by a concept plan which establishes the general development intent
of the district. The approved concept plan shall be made part of the amending
ordinance and shall serve as a guide for the approval of all subsequent site
plans as may be required in the district.
   (E)   Changes to approved concept plan. Changes to the concept plan shall be
considered as a change of zoning on the specified property and shall be
processed as required by this chapter with the exception that changes of detail
which do not alter the intent of the concept plan may be authorized by the
Director of Planning. The Director of Planning shall not authorize a change to
the concept plan which alters the basic relationship of the proposed
development to adjacent properties, alters the uses permitted or their
locations, or otherwise creates an inconsistency with a requirement found in
the ordinance establishing that Planned Unit Development district.
   (F)   Concept plan requirements.
      (1)   The concept plan shall include:
         (a)   A vicinity map;
         (b)   A boundary survey of the PUD site to include:
            1.   Metes-and-bounds description of the building site;
            2.   Total land area;
            3.   Graphic scale and north arrow; and
            4.   Names and route numbers of boundary streets and right-of-way.
         (c)   A generalized land use plan showing approximate locations of
proposed uses and the amount of land devoted to each, circulation corridors,
public utility corridors, minimum lot and setback requirements, maximum
structure heights, minimum parking standards, and landscape or other vegetative
areas;
         (d)   An architectural plan showing building and signage style to be
used throughout the district for those structures other than residential;
         (e)   A plan showing anticipated location and sequence of development
phases; and
         (f)   A written development plan outlining the dimensional variations
sought for the development and the community benefits and/or innovative design
concepts received to justify the request.
   (G)   Site plan requirements. Site plan approval is required prior to the
issuance of a commercial building permit; the submittal shall include the
following:
      (1)   A vicinity map;
      (2)   A boundary survey of the building site to include:
         (a)   Metes-and-bounds description of the building site;
         (b)   Total land area;
         (c)   Graphic scale and north arrow; and
         (d)   Names and route numbers of boundary streets and right-of-ways.
      (3)   A detailed and scaled site plan showing:
         (a)   Existing and proposed public or private streets and curb cuts.
Any existing and proposed medians and median openings;
         (b)   Existing and proposed building locations, including all required
setback lines;
         (c)   Building elevations including height in feet above grade.
Construction materials must be discernible;
         (d)   Existing and proposed utilities, utility easements, and fire
lanes (shaded and labeled). Tap locations and fire hydrants to be shown;
         (e)   A landscape plan showing the proposed locations, types, and size
at time of planning for all types of trees, shrubs, ground cover, flowering
plants, and other landscaping items. Show and label existing landscaping to
remain;
         (f)   Adequately dimensioned parking lots and loading facilities;
         (g)   A summary block which includes:
            1.   Proposed building site coverage;
            2.   Parking spaces requirement and parking spaces provided; and
            3.   Landscaped area in square feet and as a percentage of the
site.
         (h)   Proposed on-site identification and directional signage;
         (i)   Proposed location of refuse collection container with required
screening. Screening material to be labeled; and
         (j)   Proposed drainage and grading plan.
      (4)   Any other information requested by staff, Planning and Zoning
Commission, and/or City Council reasonably necessary to determine compliance of
the site plan with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.26  NR - NEIGHBORHOOD RETAIL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Use regulations. In an NR - Neighborhood Retail District, no land
shall be used and no building shall be erected for or converted to any use
other than those listed in the §
156.09 for this district.
   (B)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height.
   (C)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard, on the addressed street, with a
minimum depth not less than 25 feet.
         (b)   Where lots have a double frontage, running through from one
street to another, or on a corner lot, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   Where a side lot line in an NR zoning district adjoins a non-
residential zoning districts, or is separated from a residential zoning
district by an alley with a minimum width of 20 feet, no side yard is required.
         (b)   Where a side lot line in an NR zoning district adjoins any
residential zoning district, the side yard shall not be less than ten feet.
      (3)   Rear yard.
         (a)   Where a rear yard line in an NR zoning district adjoins a non-
residential zoning district or is separated from a residential zoning district
by an alley with a minimum width of 20 feet, no rear yard is required.
         (b)   Where a rear yard line adjoins any residential zoning district,
there shall be a rear yard with a minimum depth often ten feet.
      (4)   Area of lot. The minimum area of the lot shall be 5,000 square
feet.
      (5)   Width of lot. The minimum width of the lot, whenever measured at
the required front yard setback line (established by ordinance) shall not be
less than 50 feet.
      (6)   Depth of lot. The minimum lot depth of the lot shall be 100 feet.
   (D)   Limitations on size and hours.
      (1)   Except for laundromats, coin operated machines and uses permitted
in a residential zoning district, no use shall operate before 6 a.m. or after
11 p.m. on any day of the week.
      (2)   No single use shall occupy more than 3,000 square feet of floor
area including service and storage within the building.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.27  C - COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Use regulations. In a C - Commercial District, no land shall be used
and no building shall be erected for or converted to any use other than those
listed in §
156.09 for this district.
   (B)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed 70 feet in height.
   (C)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard. No front yard shall be required unless a zoning
district having a required front yard is located on the same side of the street
between intersecting streets. In such case, the front yard shall be a minimum
of 25 feet.
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   Where a side lot line in a C zoning district adjoins a non-
residential zoning district or is separated from a residential zoning district
by an alley with a minimum width of 20 feet, no side yard is required.
         (b)   Where a side lot line in a C zoning district adjoins any
residential zoning district, the side yard shall not be less than ten feet. The
side yard of the corner lots shall not be less than ten feet.
      (3)   Rear yard.
         (a)   When a rear yard line in a C zoning district adjoins a non-
residential zoning district or is separated from a residential zoning district
by an alley with a minimum width of 20 feet, no rear yard is required.
         (b)   When a rear yard line adjoins any residential zoning district,
there shall be a rear yard with a minimum depth of ten feet.
      (4)   Area of lot. The minimum area of the lot shall be 5,000 square
feet.
      (5)   Width of lot. The minimum width of the lot, when measured 25 feet
behind the right-of-way line, shall not be less than 50 feet.
      (6)   Depth of lot. The minimum lot depth of the lot shall be 100 feet.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.28  MD - MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Use regulations. In an MD - Manufacturing District, no land shall be
used and no building shall be erected for or converted to any use other than
those listed in §
156.09 for this district.
   (B)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed 70 feet in height.
   (C)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard. No front yard shall be required unless:
         (a)   The street is less than 60 feet in width, in which case the
front yard setback shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
         (b)   A zoning district having a required setback is located on the
same side of the street between intersecting streets. In such case, the front
yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   Where a side lot line in an MD zoning district adjoins a
residential zoning district or is separated from a residential zoning district
by an alley with a minimum width of 20 feet, no side yard is required.
         (b)   Where a side lot line in an MD zoning district adjoins any non-
residential zoning district, the side yard shall not be less than ten feet. The
side yard of the corner lots shall not be less than ten feet.
      (3)   Rear yard.
         (a)   When a rear yard line in an MD zoning district adjoins a
residential zoning district or is separated from a residential zoning district
by an alley with a minimum width of 20 feet, no rear yard is required.
         (b)   When a rear yard line adjoins any non-residential zoning
district, there shall be a rear yard with a minimum depth often ten feet.
      (4)   Area of lot. The minimum area of the lot shall be 5,000 square
feet.
      (5)   Width of lot. The minimum width of the lot, when measured 20 feet
behind the right-of-way line, shall not be less than 50 feet.
      (6)   Depth of lot. The minimum lot depth of the lot shall be 100 feet.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 156.35  SUPPLEMENTAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Site triangle at intersections.
      (1)   On a corner lot in any district, nothing shall be erected, placed,
planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to impair vehicle driver’s
vision at intersections, within a triangle defined by the property lines and a
line joining two points located 20 feet back from the property lines
intersection; except that fences, walls and/or hedges do not impair vision from
three and a half feet to six feet above the surface of the street.
      (2)   Roadways other than those classified as a minor street shall
observe the requirements for sight distance triangles set forth by the American
Association of State Highway and Transportation (AASHTO).
   (B)   Temporary buildings. A temporary building for construction purposes
shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of construction work. A real
estate field office shall be removed upon the sale of the last lot in the
subdivision.
   (C)   Junkyards. Any junkyard, whether a primary use or an accessory use,
shall provide an opaque screening device of a uniform height (min: six feet,
max: ten feet) in relation to the ground that screens the view from adjoining
lots and/or public places from junk. Stacking of junk which allows visibility
from an adjoining lot or public place shall be prohibited.
   (D)   Automobile sales. All vehicles shall be displayed only on an
impervious paved surface. A physical barrier shall be placed along the property
line to prevent the vehicle from encroaching into the street right-of-way. This
provision shall apply equally to sales lots for boats, recreational vehicles
and trailers or other similar uses.
   (E)   Multi-family dwellings.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum distance often ten feet between multi-
family structures. Balconies, eaves or canopies may extend into the minimum
building separation for a distance not to exceed five feet each.
      (2)   A curb or equivalent barrier shall be placed so as to prevent any
vehicle from parking within a minimum distance of four feet from any multiple
family dwelling.
   (F)   Garage or yard sales. In connection with the residential or
institutional occupancy of a structure, the tenants may offer their personal
belongings and household effects for sale to the general public provided such
sales are not conducted on the same lot for more than three days during any 90-
day period.
   (G)   Shopping centers. Prior to the issuance of a building permit for the
development of a shopping center consisting of four or more retail spaces, a
site plan indicating:
      (1)   Arrangement and height of the various buildings;
      (2)   Parking and loading areas;
      (3)   Vehicle circulation including ingress and egress;
      (4)   Landscaped areas;
      (5)   Free standing signage;
      (6)   Refuse collection containers; and
      (7)   Any other information deemed necessary to determine the impact of
the project, shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (H)   Screening.
      (1)   In the NR - Neighborhood Retail, C - Commercial, and MD -
Manufacturing districts, a solid fence that completely obscures the view of the
adjoining property to a maximum height of six feet shall be employed and
maintained within three feet of side and rear lot lines in which a non-
residential use abuts any residential zoning district.
      (2)   Fence composition is limited to materials routinely used in fence
constructions, i.e. wooden picket, brick, stone, pipe, concrete or other
materials, that will completely obscure views. The use of a wooden picket
privacy fence is acceptable provided that the fence completely obscures the
view of commercial activities and that permanent provisions for the maintenance
of the fence are provided. Fences composed of materials that are normally not
associated with a fence, such as used tires, car parts, or other non-standards
new or used materials, are prohibited in all zoning districts.
      (3)   In those circumstances where construction of a fence is not desired
by the owners of the land adjacent to a non-residential property or by the
owners of the developing land, the Planning and Zoning Commission may consider
and approve or deny a request to waive the fence installation requirement. In
the case where neighboring residential properties are in opposition to the
proposed waiver, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider protection
of interests of those neighboring residential property owners a priority. The
determination of the Planning and Zoning Commission may be appealed to the
Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
         (a)   Areas of existing trees and areas to be cleared;
         (b)   Proposed road right-of-way;
         (c)   Utility easements and stubs;
         (d)   Building pads;
         (e)   Retention and detention ponds, drainage patterns; and
         (f)   Proposed grading and fill areas.
   (I)   Bed and breakfast home.
      (1)   In all districts:
         (a)   A site plan to scale shall be presented when application is made
for a bed and breakfast showing required off-street parking spaces, driveways,
sidewalks, and any other paving, and the floor plan of the residence showing
bedrooms to be used for public accommodation, entries and exits. The applicant
shall submit three photographs of the existing residence; a picture of the
front of the property showing the property from the street to the front of the
residence; and a view from each side property line showing the property from
the property line to the residence;
         (b)   A detailed site plan showing specific measures of the residence
shall be included;
         (c)   The bed and breakfast must be owner occupied. Employees are
permitted from outside the home for assistance with laundry, lawn care,
cleaning, cooking, and other related support services;
         (d)   The site shall be designed to maintain appearance, character,
and integrity of the property consistent with the surrounding property, as
evaluated consistent or inconsistent by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
approved or disapproved by City Council;
         (e)   The bed and breakfast shall be limited to a total of 15 guests
per night;
         (f)   The term of stay shall not exceed seven consecutive days. The
owner of the bed and breakfast shall keep a registry of all guests; and
         (g)   There will be no outdoor retail sales allowed, including vending
machines.
      (2)   Number of guest rooms. A maximum of five guestrooms may be provided
in any one bed and breakfast home.
      (3)   Health factors.
         (a)   The owner of the facility shall provide adequate heating, air
conditioning, ventilation and lighting; provide adequate hot and cold water;
provide adequate sewage disposal; maintain the outside area in a clean and
sanitary manner; maintain the structure(s) in suitable state of repair; and
properly clean the premises and facilities during the guests stay and after
each guest has departed.
         (b)   Guests shall not cook in bedrooms.
      (4)   Parking and access.
         (a)   Parking shall meet the guidelines in the §
156.09, with the addition of one space.
         (b)   All parking areas on the property (except driveways) shall be
behind building lines and must be screened from the view of adjacent residences
to a height of six  feet by a solid screening fence or dense shrubs or
vegetation.
         (c)   Recreational vehicles, trailer homes, campers, and utility
trucks exceeding seven feet in height, width, or 20 feet in length may not be
parking by the owners or occupants of the bed and breakfast home on the
premises or the street.
         (d)   Emergency vehicle access should be provided, where feasible, on
two sides of the structure satisfactory to the Fire Department.
   (J)   In residential districts the following limitations apply in addition
to the restrictions noted above in division (I)(1):
      (1)   Management. The owner of the bed and breakfast home must be a full-
time resident of the dwelling in which the bed and breakfast is housed;
      (2)   Parties and public events. A temporary use permit, which can be
obtained through application to the Planning and Zoning Office, is required for
any party, reception, event or similar function that is anticipated to draw
more than 15 total guests (including overnight guests) to the bed and
breakfast. A gathering must end at 9 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday and at 11
p.m. on Friday and Saturday. Parties, receptions, events or similar functions,
subject to §
156.09, shall be limited to a total of 12 such functions per calendar year.
Temporary use permit events are not restricted to a one meal limitation;
      (3)   Structural/site requirements.
         (a)   Age of structure. Bed and breakfast homes are preferred in
structures 50 years of age or older, or of recognized historic or architectural
significance.
         (b)   No alteration to the exterior of any structure (except for
maintenance purposes) shall be permitted, unless such alteration is for the
purpose of restoring an identifiable historic or architectural feature.
         (c)   Basements, garage apartments and guesthouses can be rented in
conjunction with the guidelines for a bed and breakfast home. Existing garages
cannot be converted and must be provided as parking for the resident owner.
         (d)   No exterior evidence of the bed and breakfast home shall be
allowed, except by temporary use permit events and signs;
      (4)   Sign requirements. One non-illuminated sign of not more than 20
square feet may be either attached to the building or when detached, no more
than four feet in height measured from the grade; and
      (5)   Single-family and duplex industrialized housing.
         (a)   Single-family or duplex industrialized housing must have all
local permits and licenses that are applicable to other single-family or duplex
dwellings.
         (b)   For purposes of this section, single-family or duplex
industrialized housing is real property.
         (c)   Any industrialized housing shall:
            1.   Have a value equal to or greater than the median taxable value
for each single-family dwelling located within 500 feet of the lot on which the
industrialized housing is proposed to be located, as determined by the most
recent certified tax appraisal roll for the county;
            2.   Have exterior siding, roofing, roof pitch, foundation, fascia,
and fenestration compatible with the single-family dwellings located within 500
feet of the lot on which the industrialized housing is proposed to be located;
            3.   Comply with building setbacks, side and rear yard setbacks,
subdivision control, square footage, and other site requirements applicable to
single-family dwellings;
            4.   Comply with building setbacks, side and rear yard setbacks,
subdivision control, square footage, and other site requirements applicable to
dwellings in the commercial zoning district; and
            5.   Be securely fixed to a permanent foundation.
         (d)   For purposes of the above section, "value" means the taxable
value of the industrialized housing and the lot after installation of the
housing.
         (e)   Any owner or authorized agent who intends to construct, erect,
install, or move any industrialized housing into the city shall first make
application to the Building Official and obtain the required permits. The
permit shall include a plot plan and addendum detailing compliance with the
requirements for regulation of single-family and duplex industrialized housing
of zoning ordinance. In addition to any other information otherwise required
for said permits, the application shall:
            1.   Identify each single-family dwelling located within 500 feet
of the lot on which the industrialized housing is to be located, and show the
taxable value for each such dwelling as determined by the most recent certified
tax appraisal roll for the county;
            2.   Describe the exterior siding, roofing, roof pitch, foundation,
fascia, and fenestration for each single-family dwelling located within 500
feet of the lot on which the industrialized housing is to be located;
            3.   Describe the foundation and method of attachment proposed for
the industrialized housing;
            4.   State the taxable value of the industrialized housing and the
lot after installation of the industrialized housing; and
            5.   Indicate the deed restrictions otherwise applicable to the
real property on which the industrialized housing is to be located.
         (f)   A person commits an offense if the person:
            1.   Fails to make an application for a permit as required by this
section; or
            2.   Constructs, erects, installs or moves any industrialized
housing into the city which does not comply with this section.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.36  COMPLETION OF EXISTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction or designated use of a building actually under construction at the
time of passage of this chapter and which the entire building shall be complete
within one year from the passage of this chapter. Nothing herein contained
shall require any change in plans, construction or designated use of a building
for which a building permit has been heretofore issued and which entire
building shall be complete within six months from the date of passage of this
chapter. If any amendment to this chapter is hereafter adopted changing the
boundaries or districts, the provisions of this chapter with regard to building
or premises existing or buildings under construction or building permits issues
at the time of passage of this chapter shall apply to building permits issued
in the area affected by such amendment at the time of the passage of such
amendment.
   (B)   By passage of this chapter, no presently illegal use shall be deemed
to have been legalized unless specifically such use falls within a use district
where the actual use is a conforming use. Otherwise, such uses shall remain
nonconforming uses where recognized, or an illegal use, as the case may be. It
is further the intent and declared purpose of this chapter that no offense was
committed, and no liability, penalty or forfeiture, either civil or criminal,
incurred prior to the time this chapter was repealed and the present chapter
adopted, shall be discharged or affected by such repeal; but prosecutions and
suits for such offenses, liabilities, penalties or forfeitures may be
instituted or causes presently pending proceeded with in all respects as if
such prior chapter had not been repealed.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.37  OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as herein provided, any lot, or any structure or part thereof,
that shall be used, erected, altered, or converted for any use permitted in the
district in which it is located shall provide on that lot vehicle parking at
the ratio specified in §
156.09. In computing the minimum parking requirements for any building or
development, the total parking requirements shall be the sum of the specific
parking space requirements for each class of use included in the building or
development. Where parking requirements are established on the basis of seats
or person capacity, the building code provisions applicable at the time of
determination shall be used to define capacity.
   (B)   Required parking for a development may be located off-site when
authorized by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning
Commission may authorize such alternative location of required parking space,
along with any conditions determined necessary to promote safety and as will
adequately serve the public interest, subject to the following condition:
      (1)   Except for location, all other requirements relating to off-street
parking shall be met.
      (2)   Such space shall be conveniently usable without causing
unreasonable:
         (a)   Hazard to pedestrians;
         (b)   Hazard to vehicular traffic;
         (c)   Traffic congestion; and
         (d)   Detriment to the appropriate use of other properties in the
vicinity.
      (3)   A written agreement shall be drawn to the satisfaction of the City
Attorney and executed by all parties concerned, assuring the continued
availability of the off-street parking facility for the development it is
intended to serve.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision on the contrary, in no case shall a
commercial use providing goods or services to the general public on site
provide less than three parking spaces. Where fractional spaces result, the
parking spaces required shall be construed to be to nearest whole number.
   (D)   Whenever a building or use is changed to create a need for an increase
of 10% or more in the number of existing parking spaces, such spaces shall be
provided on the basis of the enlargement or change. Whenever a building or use
existing prior to the effective date of this chapter is enlarged to the extent
of 50% or more in floor are or in the area used, said building or use shall
then and thereafter comply with the parking requirements established herein.
   (E)   To satisfy the off-street parking requirements, a parking space shall
be paced with asphalt, concrete, or similar impervious surface and be provided
with a similarly paved driveway connecting the parking space to a street or
improved (paved) alley. No off-street parking space adjacent to a street,
wherein the maneuvering of a vehicle for the purpose of entering or leaving the
parking space is done on the street shall be classified as off-street parking
in determining satisfaction of any parking requirements herein specified,
except that parking requirements for single family and two-family residences
may be met in such manner. No off-street parking space shall project into any
street right-of-way or easement or into any alley.
   (F)   Minimum dimensions for off-street parking spaces are:
      (1)   Ninety-degree angle parking. Each parking space shall not be less
than nine feet wide nor less than 19 feet in length. The aisle width adjacent
to the parking space shall be not less than 24 feet;
      (2)   Sixty-degree angle parking. Each parking space shall not be less
than nine feet wide nor less than 21 feet in length when measured at right
angles to the building or parking line. The aisle width adjacent to the parking
space shall be not less than 18 feet for one-way traffic nor less than 24 feet
for two-way traffic;
      (3)   Forty-five degree angle parking. Each parking space shall not be
less than nine feet wide nor less than 19.5 feet in length when measured at
right angles to the building or parking line. The aisle width adjacent to the
parking space shall be not less than 13 feet for one-way traffic nor less than
24 feet for two-way traffic;
      (4)   Thirty-degree angle parking. Each parking space shall not be less
than nine feet wide nor less than 17.25 feet in length when measured at right
angles to the building or parking line. The aisle width adjacent to the parking
space shall be not less than 12 feet for one-way traffic nor less than 24 feet
for two-way traffic; and
      (5)   Zero-degree angle parking. Each parking space shall not be less
than eight feet wide nor less than 19 feet in length. The aisle width adjacent
to the parking space shall be not less than 12 feet for one-way traffic nor
less than 24 feet for two-way traffic.
   (G)   All structures used for retail, commercial, industrial or service
purposes that receive or distribute materials or merchandise by means other
than passenger vehicle shall provide and maintain off-street loading space.
   (H)   To satisfy the off-street loading requirement, the loading area shall
be paved with asphalt, concrete, or similar impervious surface and be provided
with a similarly paved driveway connecting the loading area to a street or
improved (paved) alley. Loading spaces shall be located no farther than 100
feet from an entrance to the building. No off-street loading area wherein the
maneuvering of the delivery vehicle for the purpose of entering or leaving the
loading area is done on the street or in conflict with required parking spaces
or associated drive aisles shall be classified as off-street loading.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
§ 156.99  PENALTIES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforce by
the Building Official of the city. All applications for building permits shall
be accompanied by a site plan in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size of the building to be erected,
the use of the property, and such other information as may be necessary to
provide for the enforcement of the regulations. A careful record of such
applications and plats shall be kept in the office of the Building Official.
   (B)   Any person or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or fail to comply therewith or with any of the requirements
thereof, or who shall build or alter any building or use in violation of any
detailed statement or plan submitted and approved hereunder, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be liable to a fine of not more than $1,000, and each
day such violation shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. The owner or owners of any building or premises or part thereof, where
anything in violation of this chapter shall be placed or shall exist, and
architect, building, contractor, agent, or person or corporation employed in
connection therewith, and who may have assisted in the commission of any such
violation shall be guilty of a separate offense and upon conviction shall be
fined as herein provided.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2015)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
III.   FRANCHISES, AGREEMENTS
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing land beginning at the northeast corner of the
-        9-16-1946   city, which corner is the northeast corner of the Sarah
                     Guidry 45- acre tract out of the Stephen Jackson League
                     Annexing land beginning at a point in the east line of
-        3-27-1968   Stephen Jackson League, which line is also the most
                     easterly limits of the city
                     Annexing land within one-half mile of the corporate limits
-        5-17-1994   of the city and being adjacent to and contiguous to the
                     present corporate limits of the city
-        12-2-2003   Annexing 104.23 acres of land out of and a part of Stephen
                     Jackson League
                     Annexing 104.002 acres of land, containing 4.593 acres in
-        9-30-2008   Stephen Jackson League and containing 99.409 acres in the
                     H.T. & B.R.R. Survey Section Number 76
-        2-23-2010   Annexing 125.05 acres of land out of and a part of Stephen
                     Jackson League
-        3-29-2011   Annexing 115.72 acres of land out of the part of Stephen
                     Jackson League
 
TABLE II:  REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        7-20-2004   Conveyance of real property, being a 0.137-acre tract of
                     land
 
TABLE III:  FRANCHISES, AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a gas distribution franchise to Centerpoint
-        3-29-2011   Energy Resources Corporation, DBA Centerpoint Energy Texas
                     Gas Operations
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Codes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS CODES
Administrative Code
 
Texas Code Cites               Code Section
Title 30, §§ 111.201 - 111.2293.02
Ch. 341                        115.02
                               
 
Alcoholic Beverages Code
 
Texas Code Cites            Code Section
Title 3, Subtitle B, Ch. 69 117.12
Ch. 105                     110.01
                            
 
Criminal Procedure
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
§ 2.12       117.01
§ 2.122         117.01
                 
 
Family Code
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Ch. 31           133.03
 
Government Code
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Texas Code Cites Code Section
29.001           31.16
29.003           31.17
29.010           31.22
853.502          33.02
853.502(b)       33.02
853.503          33.02
853.505          33.02
 
Health Code
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Ch. 341          115.02
Ch. 431          115.02
Art. 481.134     132.03
 
Local Government Code
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Ch. 43           154.02
Ch. 51           132.04
Ch. 53           10.01
54.001           10.18,
                 10.99
Ch. 211-229      30.02
Ch. 211-240      30.02
Ch. 212          154.02
Ch. 243          112.01
229.002          156.21
283.002(6)       70.01
                 
 
Occupancy Code
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Ch. 1201         152.05
Ch. 2308         111.09
                 
 
Occupations Code
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
2153.453         117.52
                 
 
Penal Code
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Ch. 21           112.05
21.01            112.10
Art. 21.08       132.03
Art. 21.11       132.03
Ch. 22           112.05
Art. 22.011      132.03
Art. 22.021      132.03
Ch. 25           112.05
Art. 25.02       132.03
37.10         117.30
Ch. 43           112.05
Art. 43.25       132.03
Art. 43.26       132.03
Ch. 47        117.30
47.01(4)(A)      117.01
Art. 666-15e     156.03
                 
 
Transportation Code
 
Texas Code Cites  Code Section
Ch. 501           111.05
502.001           73.02
543.111 - 543.116 31.38
551.403           73.03
724.001           73.02
 
Water Code
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
16.315           151.01
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
–        - -         31.15—
                       31.42
                       53.01—
–        - -         53.23,
                       53.99
–        - -         130.01,
                       130.99
–        8-30-1943   30.15,
                       30.99
–        10-11-1943  130.02,
                       130.99
–        9-16-1946   TSO Table I
–        1-29-1947   97.01
–        1-18-1964   130.03
–        8-16-1965   130.04
–        5-11-1966   30.02
–        6-8-1966    70.21,
                       70.99
–        5-25-1967   30.01,
                       30.99
–        3-27-1968   TSO Table I
                       116.01,
714        8-18-1971   116.02,
                       116.99
722        9-13-1972   70.05,
                       70.99
735        9-12-1973   33.04
742        5-8-1974    70.05,
                       70.99
–        7-12-1978   110.01
–        11- -1979   110.02,
                       110.99
–        11- -1979   130.03,
                       130.99
–        1-15-1980   33.03,
                       33.99
                       96.01—
–        6-17-1980   96.14,
                       96.99
702        6-15-1982   70.04,
                       70.99
                       153.01—
–        7-19-1983   153.04,
                       153.99
                       154.01—
–        11-20-1984  154.13,
                       154.99
–        12-18-1984  Ch. 72, Sch. I
–        3-19-1985   Ch. 72, Sch. I
                       54.01—
–        8-20-1985   54.24,
                       54.99
1986-4     9-16-1986   33.01
1986-5     12-16-1986  97.02,
                       97.99
–        3-17-1987   93.03,
                       93.99
–        7-18-1987   70.20,
                       70.99
–        7-20-1987   110.01
–        8-18-1987   70.03,
                       70.99
–        10-20-1987  30.17
–        3-15-1988   54.21
                       155.01—
–        8-15-1989   155.15,
                       155.99
–        9-16-1988   33.01
                       114.01—
–        6-20-1989   114.10,
                       114.99
–        9-19-1989   114.03
–        10-17-1989  Ch. 71, Sch. II
–        3-20-1990   114.03,
                       114.04
–        8-21-1990   30.16
                       51.01—
–        9-18-1990   51.16,
                       51.99
–        10-21-1991  32.01—
                       32.10
                       115.01—
–        3-17-1992   115.07,
                       115.99
–        7-21-1992   150.01
                       52.01—
–        8-17-1993   52.11,
                       52.99
–        5-17-1994   TSO Table I
–        5-17-1994   Ch. 71, Sch. II
–        9-20-1994   Ch. 72, Sch. I
                       95.01—
–        10-18-1994  95.03,
                       95.99
                       70.02,
–        11-15-1994  70.99,
                       Ch. 71, Sch. I
                       94.01—
–        4-24-1996   94.03,
                       94.99
                       112.01—
–        12-16-1997  112.21,
                       112.99
–        5-25-1999   Ch. 72, Sch. I
–        10-19-1999  31.01,
                       31.02
–        12-21-1999  93.02
–        - -2000     111.01—
                       111.13
–        1-18-2000   93.01
–        7-17-2001   92.01—
                       92.07
–        2-18-2003   Ch. 72, Sch. I
–        12-2-2003   TSO Table I
–        7-20-2004   TSO Table II
–        8-17-2004   Ch. 72, Sch. I
                       70.01,
–        7-17-2007   70.99,
                       Ch. 71, Sch. III
–        6-17-2008   50.02
–        9-30-2008   TSO Table I
                       133.01—
–        10-20-2009  133.05,
                       133.99
–        2-23-2010   TSO Table I
                       131.01—
2010-      8-17-2010   131.05,
                       131.99
                       151.01—
                       151.13,
                       151.25—
–        9-21-2010   151.28,
                       151.40—
                       151.43,
                       151.99
                       91.01—
–        11-16-2010  91.08,
                       91.99
                       90.01—
–        1-18-2011   90.06,
                       90.99
–        3-29-2011   TSO Table I
–        3-29-2011   TSO Table III
–        4-19-2011   33.02
                       132.01—
–        5-17-2011   132.05,
                       132.99
–        8-16-2011   50.01
2010-      11-15-2011  152.40,
                       152.99
                       73.01—
–        8-20-2013   73.07,
                       73.99
–        3-18-2014   152.05
                       134.01—
–        4-15-2014   134.05,
                       134.99
–        11-17-2015  50.01
                       156.01—
                       156.09,
                       156.20—
–        11-17-2015  156.28,
                       156.35—
                       156.37,
                       156.99
–        6-19-2018   156.21,
                       156.22
02-01-2019 3-19-2019   93.02,
                       93.99
                       117.01,
                       117.10—
                       117.18,
2021-07-01 8-17-2021   117.30—
                       117.38,
                       117.50—
                       117.55,
                       117.99
                      
 
