SWEENY, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-18 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 25-114, passed 9-30-25
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/24b807cd836b8d26bd9b3028add0d6158f9a86fc/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1681.bmp]
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS
MAYOR                    Dusty Hopkins
CITY MANAGER             John David Jordan
CITY ATTORNEY            Charlie Stevenson
CITY JUDGE            Robert Foster
CITY SECRETARY           Kaydi Smith
CHIEF OF POLICE          Brad Caudle
FIRE CHIEF               Timothy Webb
FIRE MARSHAL             Devin Lemon
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS DeLane Brown
 
COUNCIL MEMBERS
 
Neal Bess, Jr.
Brian Brooks
Reese Cook
Caniel “Shaun” Massey
Sandra Blaine
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 102-03
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF SWEENY, TEXAS;
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF SWEENY, TEXAS; DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Sweeny,
Texas, are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the City and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Texas empower and
authorize the City of Sweeny, Texas, to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Sweeny, Texas, has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
Sweeny, Texas, of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance into book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the City that this ordinance take effect at an
early date.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SWEENY, TEXAS:
SECTION I.
   The general ordinances of the City of Sweeny, Texas, as revised, amended,
restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the Code of Ordinances of the City of Sweeny, Texas.
SECTION II.
   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section I shall consist of the
following titles:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
SECTION III.
   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in
such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase of sale of real property or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
SECTION IV.
   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the City Council of the City of Sweeny, Texas, and an official copy
of said Code of Ordinances shall be filed with the City Secretary of the City
of Sweeny, Texas.
SECTION V.
   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section VI and
such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all its provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
SECTION VI.
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the City of Sweeny, Texas, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this the 21st day of January, 2003.
                   Larry Piper /s/
                  LARRY PIPER, Mayor
ATTEST:
Tina Bernshausen /s/
CITY SECRETARY
ORDINANCE NO. 101-04
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF SWEENY, TEXAS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or make
reference to sections of the Texas code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Texas; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF SWEENY, TEXAS:
SECTION I.
   That the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political Subdivision
as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and
as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in its entirety.
SECTION II.
   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
SECTION III.
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this the 18th day of November, 2003.
                   Larry Piper /s/
                  LARRY G. PIPER, Mayor
ATTEST:
Tina Bernshausen /s/
Tina Bernshausen, City Secretary
ORDINANCE NO. 102-03
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF SWEENY, TEXAS;
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF SWEENY, TEXAS; DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Sweeny,
Texas, are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the City and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Texas empower and
authorize the City of Sweeny, Texas, to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Sweeny, Texas, has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
Sweeny, Texas, of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance into book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the City that this ordinance take effect at an
early date.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SWEENY, TEXAS:
SECTION I.
   The general ordinances of the City of Sweeny, Texas, as revised, amended,
restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the Code of Ordinances of the City of Sweeny, Texas.
SECTION II.
   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section I shall consist of the
following titles:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
SECTION III.
   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in
such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase of sale of real property or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
SECTION IV.
   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the City Council of the City of Sweeny, Texas, and an official copy
of said Code of Ordinances shall be filed with the City Secretary of the City
of Sweeny, Texas.
SECTION V.
   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section VI and
such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all its provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
SECTION VI.
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the City of Sweeny, Texas, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this the 21st day of January, 2003.
                  Larry Piper /s/
                  LARRY PIPER, Mayor
ATTEST:
Tina Bernshausen /s/
CITY SECRETARY
ORDINANCE NO. 100-08
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF SWEENY, TEXAS AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2006-2007 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Texas code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Texas; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF SWEENY:
Section 1.   That the City of Sweeny supplement to the Code of Ordinances of
the Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted
by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 16th day of October, 2007.
                  Larry Piper /s/
                  LARRY PIPER, MAYOR of the City of Sweeny, Texas
ATTEST:
Reatta Minshew /s/
REATTA MINSHEW, City Secretary
CITY CHARTER
Section
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, FORM OF GOVERNMENT, AND POWERS
   
1.01   Incorporation
   
1.02   General powers
   
1.03   Form of government
   
1.04   Streets and public property
   
1.05   Street development and improvement
   
1.06   Change of boundaries and annexation of territory
ARTICLE II. THE CITY COUNCIL
   
2.01   Number, selection, and term of office
   
2.02   Qualifications and limitations
   
2.03   Compensation
   
2.04   Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem
   
2.05   Vacancies
   
2.06   Powers of the City Council
   
2.07   Investigative body
   
2.08   Interference in personnel matters
   
2.09   City Secretary
   
2.10   Meetings of the City Council
   
2.11   Rules of procedure
   
2.12   Procedure to enact legislation
   
2.13   Publication of ordinances
   
2.14   Code of ordinances
ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS
   
3.01   General elections
   
3.02   Regulation of election
   
3.03   Filing of candidates
   
3.04   Qualified voters
   
3.05   Canvassing election and declaring results
   
3.06   Election by plurality
   
3.07   Notification and qualifications of City officers
   
3.08   Special elections
ARTICLE IV. INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM, AND RECALL
   
4.01   Power of initiative
   
4.02   Power of referendum
   
4.03   Form of petitions
   
4.04   Filing, examination, and certification of petitions
   
4.05   City Council consideration and submission to voters
   
4.06   Results of election
   
4.07   Power of recall
   
4.08   Recall election
   
4.09   Results of recall election
   
4.10   Limitation on recall
ARTICLE V. ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
   
5.01   The City Manager
   
5.02   Powers and duties of the City Manager
   
5.03   Administrative departments
   
5.04   Directors of departments
   
5.05   Departmental organization
   
5.06   City Attorney
ARTICLE VI. MUNICIPAL COURT
   
6.01   Municipal Court
   
6.02   Judge of the Municipal Court
   
6.03   Clerk of the Municipal Court
   
6.04   Costs, process, and procedure in the Municipal Court
ARTICLE VII. FINANCE
   
7.01   Fiscal year
   
7.02   Budget preparation and adoption
   
7.03   Appropriation
   
7.04   Contingent appropriation
   
7.05   Borrowing in anticipation of property taxes
   
7.06   Depository
   
7.07   General obligation bonds
   
7.08   Revenue bonds
   
7.09   Sale of bonds
   
7.10   Purchase procedure
   
7.11   Independent audit
ARTICLE VIII. TAXATION
   
8.01   Powers of taxation
   
8.02   Arrears of taxes offset to debt against City
ARTICLE IX. FRANCHISES AND PUBLIC UTILITIES
   
9.01   Inalienability of control of public property
   
9.02   Power to grant franchise
   
9.03   Ordinance granting franchise
   
9.04   Transfer of franchise
   
9.05   Regulation of franchise
   
9.06   Regulation of rates
ARTICLE X. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
10.01   Interim government
   
10.02   Continuation of government
   
10.03   Effect of Charter on existing law
   
10.04   Official oath
   
10.05   Public records
   
10.06   Official newspaper
   
10.07   Tort liability
   
10.08   Assignment, execution and garnishment
   
10.09   Security or bond not required
   
10.10   Personal interest in City contracts
   
10.11   Nepotism
   
10.12   Health, life, and accident insurance for City employees
   
10.13   Boards, agencies, and commissions
   
10.14   Rearrangement and renumbering
   
10.15   Judicial notice
   
10.16   Construction of Charter
   
10.17   Severability clause
   
10.18   Submission of Charter to voters
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, FORM OF GOVERNMENT, AND POWERS
Sec. 1.01. Incorporation.
   The inhabitants of the City of Sweeny, Brazoria County, Texas, residing
within its corporate limits as heretofore or hereafter established, are hereby
constituted and shall continue to be municipal body politic and corporate in
perpetuity under the name of the “City of Sweeny,” hereinafter referred to as
the “City,” with such powers, privileges, rights, duties, and immunities as are
herein provided.
Sec. 1.02. General Powers.
   The City shall have the powers granted to cities by the Constitution and
Laws of the State of Texas, together with all of the implied powers necessary
to carry into execution such granted powers. The City may use a corporate seal;
may sue and be sued; may contract and be contracted with; may cooperate with
the government of the State of Texas or any agency or political subdivision
thereof or with the federal government or agency thereof to accomplish any
lawful purpose for the advancement of the interest, welfare, health, morals,
comfort, safety, and convenience of the City and its inhabitants; may acquire
property within or without its corporate limits for any municipal purpose in
fee simple or in any lesser interest or estate by purchase, gift, devise,
lease, or condemnation and, subject to the provisions of this Charter and the
Constitution and Laws of the State of Texas, may sell, lease, mortgage, hold,
manage, improve, and control such property as may now or hereafter be owned by
it; may pass ordinances and enact such regulations as may be expedient for the
maintenance of the good government, order, and peace of the City and the
welfare, health, morals, comfort, safety, and convenience of its inhabitants.
The powers hereby conferred upon the City shall include, but are not restricted
to, the powers conferred upon home rule municipalities by acts of the
Legislature of the State of Texas, as heretofore or hereafter enumerated, all
of which are hereby adopted. In addition to the powers enumerated herein and
subject only to the limitations imposed by the Constitution and Laws of the
State of Texas and by this Charter, the City shall have, without the necessity
of expressed enumeration in this Charter, each and every power which by virtue
of Article XI, Section V, of the Constitution of the State of Texas, the people
of the City are empowered by election to grant or to confer upon the City by
expressly and specifically granting and enumerating the same herein. All such
powers, whether expressed or implied, shall be exercised and enforced in the
manner prescribed in this Charter, or when not prescribed herein, in such
manner as shall be provided by ordinance of the City Council.
Sec. 1.03. Form of Government.
   The municipal government provided by this Charter shall be, and shall be
known as, a “City Council-Manager” form of government. Pursuant to the
provisions of, and subject only to the limitations imposed by the Constitution
and Laws of the State of Texas and by this Charter, all powers of the City
shall be vested in and exercised by an elective City Council, hereinafter
referred to as the “City Council,” which shall enact ordinances, adopt budgets,
determine policies, appoint the City Manager, and execute such other powers and
duties as may be prescribed by this Charter or Law.
Sec. 1.04. Streets and Public Property.
   The City shall have exclusive dominion, control, and jurisdiction in, upon,
over, and under the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, public squares and
public ways within the corporate limits of the City and in, upon, over, and
under all public property of the City. With respect to each and every public
street, sidewalk, alley, highway, public square, public park or other public
way within the corporate limits of the City, the City shall have the power to
establish, maintain, improve, alter, abandon, or vacate the same, to regulate,
establish, or change the grade thereof; to control and regulate the use
thereof, and to abate and remove in a summary manner any encroachment thereon.
Sec. 1.05. Street Development and Improvement.
   The City shall have the power to develop or improve, or cause to be
developed or improved, any and all public streets, sidewalks, alleys, highways
and other public ways within the corporate limits of the City by laying out,
opening, narrowing, widening, straightening, extending, lighting, or
establishing building lines along the same; by purchasing, condemning, and
taking property therefor; by filling, grading, raising, lowering, paving,
repaving or repairing the same in a permanent manner, and by constructing,
reconstructing, altering, repairing, or realigning curbs, gutters, drains,
sidewalks, culverts, and other appurtenances and incidentals in connection with
such development or improvement herein authorized, or any combination or part
thereof. The cost of such development or improvement may be paid partly or
entirely by assessments levied as a lien against the properties abutting
thereon and against the owners thereof, and such assessments may be levied in
any amount and under any procedure not prohibited by the Laws of the State of
Texas; provided, that no assessment shall be made against such land or owners
in excess of the enhancement in value of such property occasioned by such
improvement.
   If improvements be ordered constructed in any part of any such area used or
occupied by the tracks or facilities of any railway or public utility, the City
Council shall have the power to assess the whole cost of improvements in such
area and the added costs of improvements in areas adjacent thereto made
necessary by such use or occupancy against such railways or public utility, and
shall have power by ordinance to provide for the enforcement of such
assessment.
Sec. 1.06. Change of Boundaries and Annexation of Territory.
   The City Council shall have the power by ordinance to fix the boundary
limits of the City and to provide for the alteration and extension of said
boundary limits, the annexation of additional territory lying adjacent to the
City, and the detachment or disannexation of territory, with or without the
consent of the owners and inhabitants of the territory annexed, detached, or
disannexed, in any manner not inconsistent with applicable procedural rules
prescribed by Law. Upon final passage of any ordinance annexing territory, the
corporate limits of the City shall thereafter include the territory annexed;
and when any additional territory has been annexed, the same shall be a part of
the City and the property situated therein shall be subject to taxes levied by
the City; and the inhabitants thereof shall be entitled to all of the rights
and privileges of all citizens, and shall be bound by this Charter and the
ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the City. Upon the final
passage of any ordinance detaching or disannexing territory from the City, the
corporate limits of the City shall be reduced by the territory detached or
disannexed.
ARTICLE II. THE CITY COUNCIL
Sec. 2.01. Number, Selection, and Term of Office.
   The City Council shall be composed of a Mayor and five Councilmembers.
Councilmembers shall be elected to and occupy positions on the City Council,
such positions being numbered one, two, three, four and five. Members of the
City Council, unless sooner removed under the provisions of this Charter or the
Laws of the State of Texas, shall serve for a term of two (2) years. Terms
shall commence the third Tuesday in May following the member’s election, and
terminate at midnight on the Monday preceding the third Tuesday in May two
years thereafter, or until the member’s successor has been elected and duly
qualified. Councilmember positions one, three, and five shall be filled each
even numbered year, and positions two and four shall be filled each odd
numbered year. The office of Mayor shall be filled each odd numbered year.
Sec. 2.02. Qualifications and Limitations.
   Each member of City Council shall be a citizen and qualified voter of the
State of Texas and the City of Sweeny at the time of his or her election to
office. No member of the City Council shall hold any other office or employment
under the City government while serving on said City Council, or hold any paid
employment under the City government within two years thereafter. Any member of
the City Council ceasing to reside in the City shall be deemed to have vacated
his or her position on the City Council.
Sec. 2.03. Compensation.
   Councilmembers shall not receive remuneration or compensation; however, they
shall be entitled to all necessary expenses incurred in the performance of
their official duties. The Mayor shall receive such remuneration or
compensation as may be established from time to time by the City Council.
Sec. 2.04. Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council and shall be
recognized as head of the City government for all ceremonial purposes, for the
purpose of receiving service of civil process, for emergency purposes, and for
military purposes, but shall have no regular administrative duties. The Mayor
shall perform such other duties and possess and exercise such other authority
as may be prescribed and conferred by the City Council. The Mayor, as a member
of the City Council, shall be entitled to vote only in the case of a tie.
   At its first regular meeting following the general municipal election each
year, the City Council shall by election designate one of its members as Mayor
Pro Tem, who shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the City Council.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall act as Mayor during the absence or disability of the
Mayor and shall have power to perform every act the Mayor could perform if
present. If the Mayor and the Mayor Pro Tem are absent from a meeting, the City
Council shall elect an attending member to preside over such meeting.
Sec. 2.05. Vacancies.
   Vacancies on the City Council arising from any cause may be filled by a
majority vote of the remaining members, or the City Council may call a special
election to fill such vacancy. The person appointed or elected to fill such
vacancy shall serve the remainder of the unexpired term for such office. The
person filling such vacancy shall possess all qualifications required for the
office as set forth in Section
2.02 of this Charter.
Sec. 2.06. Powers of the City Council.
   All powers and authority which are expressly or impliedly conferred on or
possessed by the City shall be vested in and exercised by the City Council;
provided, however, the City Council shall have no power to exercise those
powers which are expressly conferred upon other City officers by this Charter.
Sec. 2.07. Investigative Body.
   The City Council shall have the power to inquire into the official conduct
of any department, agency, office, officer or employee of the City, and for
that purpose shall have the power to administer oaths, subpoena witnesses,
compel the production of books, papers and other evidence material to the
inquiry. The City Council may provide by ordinance penalties for contempt in
failing or refusing to obey any such subpoena or to produce any such books,
papers, or other evidence, and shall have the power to punish such contempt in
the manner provided by such ordinance.
Sec. 2.08. Interference in Personnel Matters.
   Neither the City Council nor any of its members shall instruct or request
the City Manager, or any subordinate of the City Manager, to appoint to or
remove from office or employment any person except with respect to those
offices which are to be filled by appointment by the City Council under the
provisions of this Charter. Except for the purposes of inquiry and
investigation, the City Council and its members shall deal with the
administrative service of the City solely through the City Manager and shall
not give orders to any of the City Manager’s subordinates, either publicly or
privately.
Sec. 2.09. City Secretary.
   The City Council shall appoint a City Secretary. The City Secretary shall
keep the records of the City Council and shall perform such other duties and
hold such other responsibilities of office as may be assigned by this Charter
or the City Council. The City Secretary shall appoint such assistants as may be
authorized by the City Council.
Sec. 2.10. Meetings of the City Council.
   There shall be at least one regular meeting of the City Council each month.
Regular meetings shall be held at the City Hall and shall be held at such times
as shall be prescribed by ordinance or resolution. Special meetings may be
called at anytime by the City Secretary upon request of the Mayor, the City
Manager, or three members of City Council. Special meetings may be held at
locations other than at the City Hall when deemed necessary and appropriate by
the City Council, provided such special meetings are held at locations
accessible to the general public.
Sec. 2.11. Rules of Procedure.
   The City Council shall determine its own rules and order of business. A
majority of the City Council qualified and serving shall constitute a quorum
for all meetings for the transaction of business. The City Council may adopt
such rules and prescribe such penalties as it may deem proper to enforce the
attendance of its members at all regular and special meetings of the City
Council or its committees. Minutes of all meetings of the City Council shall be
taken and recorded and such minutes shall constitute a public record.
Sec. 2.12. Procedure to Enact Legislation.
   The City Council shall legislate by ordinance. The enacting clause of every
ordinance shall be, “Be it Ordained by the City Council of the City of Sweeny,
Texas.” Every ordinance enacted by the City Council shall be signed by the
Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tern, or by two members of City Council and shall be filed
with and recorded by the City Secretary. Every ordinance shall take effect
immediately upon its final passage, unless otherwise provided by Law or by the
terms of such ordinance.
Sec. 2.13. Publication of Ordinances.
   Except as otherwise provided by Law or this Charter, the City Secretary
shall give notice of the enactment of every ordinance imposing any penalty,
fine, or forfeiture for any violation of any of its provisions, and of every
other ordinance required by Law or this Charter to be published, by causing
said ordinance, or its caption and penalty, to be published at least one time
within ten days after final passage thereof in the official newspaper of the
City. The affidavit of publication by the publisher of such newspaper taken
before any officer authorized to administer oaths and filed with the City
Secretary shall be conclusive proof of the legal publication and promulgation
of such ordinance in all Courts.
Sec. 2.14. Code of Ordinances.
   The City Council shall have the power to cause all general ordinances of the
City to be compiled and printed in code form. Every general ordinance enacted
subsequent to such codification may be enacted as an amendment to the code. The
City Council shall cause all general ordinances to be codified, recodified and
reprinted whenever in its discretion such is deemed desirable, or when such
codification or recodification is required by Law. When adopted by the City
Council, the printed codes of general ordinances contemplated by this Section
shall be in full force and effect without the necessity of such code or any
part thereof being published in any newspaper. The caption, descriptive clause,
and other formal parts of the ordinances of the City may be omitted without
affecting the validity of such ordinances when they are published as a code.
ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS
Sec. 3.01. General Elections.
   The regular election of members of the City Council to the positions on the
City Council occupied by persons whose terms are expiring shall be held on the
first Saturday in May of each year and at every such election each qualified
voter shall vote for not more than one candidate for each City Council position
to be filled. Said election shall be ordered by the Mayor, and in the event of
the failure of the Mayor to order the same, the City Council shall make such
order. In the event of the inability or failure of the Mayor and the City
Council to act, the election may be called by the City Secretary, and in the
event of the inability of the City Secretary to act, by the County Judge of
Brazoria County, Texas, and in the event of the inability of the County Judge
to act, by the Governor of the State of Texas. The City Secretary shall give
notice of such election by causing said notice to be published at least thirty
days prior to the date of such election in the official newspaper of the City.
Sec. 3.02. Regulation of Election.
   All elections shall be held in accordance with the Laws of the State of
Texas regulating the holding of municipal elections, and in accordance with the
ordinances adopted by the City Council for the conduct of elections. The City
Council shall appoint the Election Judges and other election officials and
shall provide for the compensation of all election officials in City elections,
and for all other expenses of holding such elections.
Sec. 3.03. Filing of Candidates.
   Any qualified person who desires to become a candidate for election to the
City Council shall file an application with the City Secretary within the time
prescribed by Law. Such application shall clearly designate the office and, if
such office is for Councilmember, the position on the City Council, by number,
to which the candidate seeks election, and shall contain a sworn statement by
the candidate that he or she is fully qualified under the Constitution and Laws
of the State of Texas and the provisions of this Charter to hold the office he
or she seeks.
Sec. 3.04. Qualified Voters.
   All citizens of the City qualified by the Constitution and Laws of the State
of Texas to vote in City elections and registered as voters as prescribed by
Law shall be qualified voters of the City within the meaning of this Charter.
Sec. 3.05. Canvassing Election and Declaring Results.
   The City Council shall canvass the returns and declare the official results
of each municipal election in accordance with applicable provisions of Law. The
returns of every municipal election shall be recorded in the minutes of the
City Council by precinct totals.
Sec. 3.06. Election by Plurality.
   The qualified person receiving the highest number of votes cast for any
office of the City subject to election shall thereupon be declared by said City
Council elected.
Sec. 3.07. Notification and Qualifications of City Officers.
   The City Secretary shall notify all persons elected or appointed to office
of their election or appointment. Any officer elected or appointed must qualify
by taking and subscribing the oath of office within thirty days after such
election or appointment. If a person elected or appointed to an office of the
City fails to take and subscribe to such oath of office within thirty (30) days
following such election or appointment, such office may be deemed vacant by
City Council.
Sec. 3.08. Special Elections.
   The City Council may by ordinance or resolution call such special elections
as are authorized by the Laws of the State of Texas or by this Charter, fix the
time and place of holding same, and provide all means for holding such special
elections; provided, however, every special election shall be called and held
in accordance with applicable provisions of Law governing general elections.
ARTICLE IV. INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM, AND RECALL
Sec. 4.01. Power of Initiative.
   The people of the City reserve the power of direct legislation by
initiative, and in the exercise of such power may propose any ordinance, except
zoning ordinances and ordinances appropriating money or levying taxes, or
ordinances repealing zoning ordinances and ordinances appropriating money or
levying taxes, not in conflict with this Charter or the Constitution or Laws of
the State of Texas. Any initiated ordinance may be submitted to the City
Council by a petition signed by the qualified voters of the City equal in
number to at least twenty percent (20%) of the qualified voters of the City.
Sec. 4.02. Power of Referendum.
   The people reserve the power to approve or reject at the polls any
legislation enacted by the City Council which is subject to the initiative
process under this Charter, except that ordinances authorizing the issuance of
either tax or revenue bonds, whether original or refunding bonds, shall not be
subject to such referendum. Prior to or within thirty (30) days after the
effective date of any ordinance which is subject to referendum, a petition
signed by qualified voters of the City equal in number to at least twenty
percent (20%) of the qualified voters of the City may be filed with the City
Secretary requesting that any such ordinance be either repealed or submitted to
a vote of the people. When such a petition has been certified as sufficient by
the City Secretary, the ordinance specified in the petition shall not go into
effect, or further action thereon shall be suspended if it shall have gone into
effect, until and unless it is approved by the voters as herein provided.
Sec. 4.03. Form of Petitions.
   Initiative petition papers shall contain the full text of the proposed
legislation in the form of an ordinance, including a descriptive caption.
Referendum petition papers shall contain a sufficient description of the
ordinance sought to be referred to identify it, or if the ordinance has been
passed by the City Council, the full text of the ordinance sought to be
referred shall be included in such papers. The signatures to the initiative or
referendum petitions need not be all appended to one paper, but each signatory
shall sign his or her name in ink or indelible pencil, together with a notation
showing such signatory’s residence address and the precinct number and serial
number that appear on his or her voter registration certificate or such other
document as shall be prescribed by the Laws of the State of Texas to identify
qualified voters under any future legislation. No signature shall be counted
where there is reason to believe it is not the actual signature of the
purported signatory or that it is a duplication either of the name or of
handwriting used in any other signature on the petition, and no signature shall
be counted unless the residence address of the signatory is shown, or unless it
is signed exactly as the name of the voter appears on the official copy of the
current poll list or such other document as may be prescribed by the Laws of
the State of Texas to identify qualified voters under any future legislation,
or unless the precinct number and serial number that appear on the signatory’s
voter registration certificate or such other document as may be prescribed by
state Law to identify qualified voters under any future legislation are noted
as above required. Before the signatures on any petition paper may be counted,
one of the persons signing such petition paper, a qualified voter, shall make
oath before the City Secretary or other officer competent to administer oaths
that the statements made therein are true, that each signature to the paper
appended is a genuine signature of the person whose name purports to be signed
thereto, and that such signatures were placed thereon in his or her presence.
Sec. 4.04. Filing, Examination, and Certification of Petitions.
   Within thirty (30) days after an initiative or referendum petition is filed,
the City Secretary shall determine whether the same is properly signed by the
requisite number of qualified voters. The City Secretary shall declare void any
petition paper which does not have an affidavit attached thereto as required in
Section 4.03 of this Article. In examining the petition, the City Secretary
shall write the letters “D.V.” (declared void) in red ink opposite the names of
signatories found not qualified. After completing examination of the petition,
the City Secretary shall certify the results thereof to the City Council at its
next regular meeting. If the certificate of the City Secretary shall show an
initiative or referendum petition to be insufficient, the City Secretary shall
notify the person filing the petition, and it may be amended within ten days
from the date of such notice by filing a supplementary petition upon additional
papers signed and filed as provided for in the original petition. Within thirty
(30) days after such amendment is filed, the City Secretary shall examine the
amended petition and certify as to its sufficiency. If the amended petition is
then found to be insufficient, no further proceedings shall be had with regard
to it.
Sec. 4.05. City Council Consideration and Submission to Voters.
   When the City Council receives an authorized initiative petition certified
by the City Secretary to be sufficient, the City Council shall either: (a) pass
the initiated ordinance without amendment within thirty (30) days after the
date of the certification to the City Council; or (b) submit said initiated
ordinance, without amendments, to a vote of the qualified voters of the City at
d regular or special election to be held not later than the first uniform
election date after the expiration of forty-five (45) days after the date of
the certification to the City Council; or (c) at such election submit to a vote
of the qualified voters of the City said initiated ordinance without amendment,
and an alternative ordinance on the same subject proposed by the City Council.
In such event, should both such ordinances be approved by a majority of the
votes cast at such election, the ordinance receiving the highest number of
votes shall be effective as an ordinance of the City, and the other ordinance
shall be deemed rejected and shall not be effective.
   When the City Council receives an authorized referendum petition certified
by the City Secretary to be sufficient, the City Council shall reconsider the
referred ordinance and, if upon such reconsideration such ordinance is not
repealed within thirty (30) days, it shall be submitted to the qualified voters
of the City at a regular or special election to be held not later than the
first uniform election date after the expiration of forty-five (45) days after
the date of the certification to the City Council.
   Special elections on initiated or referred ordinances shall not be held more
frequently than once each six months. No ordinance on the same subject as an
initiated ordinance which has been defeated or on the same subject as a
referred ordinance which has been approved at any election may be initiated by
the voters within two years from the date of such election.
Sec. 4.06. Results of Election.
   Any number of ordinances may be voted on at the same election in accordance
with the provisions of this Article. If a majority of the legal. votes cast is
in favor of an initiated ordinance, it shall thereupon be effective as an
ordinance of the City. An ordinance thus adopted may be repealed or amended at
any time after the expiration of one year by a vote of two-thirds of the City
Council members qualified and serving. A referred ordinance which is rejected
by a majority of the legal votes cast in a referendum election shall be deemed
thereupon repealed. An ordinance thus rejected may be reenacted at any time
after the expiration of one year by a vote of two-thirds of the City Council
members qualified and serving.
Sec. 4.07. Power of Recall.
   The people of the City reserve the power to recall any elected officer of
the City and may exercise such power by filing with the City Secretary a
petition, signed by qualified voters of the City equal in number to at least
thirty percent (30%) of the qualified voters of the City, demanding the removal
of such elected officers. The petition shall be signed and verified in the
mariner required for an initiative petition.
Sec. 4.08. Recall Election.
   The provisions regulating examination, certification, and amendment of
initiative petitions shall apply to recall petitions. If the petition is
certified by the City Secretary to be sufficient, the City Council shall order
and hold an election to determine whether such officer shall be recalled in the
same manner as provided for the holding of an election on an initiative
petition.
Sec. 4.09. Results of Recall Election.
   If the majority of the legal votes cast at a recall election be for the
recall of the officer named on the ballot, the City Council shall immediately
declare such office vacant. An officer thus removed shall not be eligible to
hold office again in the City for a period of two years from the date of his or
her recall.
Sec. 4.10. Limitation on Recall.
   No recall petition shall be filed against an officer within six months after
such officer takes office, and no officer shall be subjected to more than one
recall election during such term of office.
ARTICLE V. ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
Sec. 5.01. The City Manager.
   The City Council shall appoint a City Manager, who shall be the chief
administrative and executive officer of the City. The City Manager shall be
chosen by the City Council solely on the basis of his or her executive and
administrative training, experience, and ability, and need not, when appointed,
be a resident of the City; however, during the tenure of said City Manager’s
office, he or she shall reside within the City.
   The City Manager shall not be appointed for a definite term, but may be
removed at the will and pleasure of the City Council by the vote of a majority
of all City Council members qualified and serving. The action of the City
Council in removing the City Manager shall be final, it being the intention of
this Charter to vest all authority and fix all responsibility for such removal
in the City Council. The City Manager shall receive such compensation as may be
fixed by the City Council.
   No member of the City Council shall, during the time for which he or she is
elected or for two years thereafter, be chosen as City Manager.
Sec. 5.02. Powers and Duties of the City Manager.
   The City Manager shall be responsible to the City Council for the proper
administration of all the affairs of the City. The powers herein conferred upon
the City Manager shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
   (a)   To appoint and remove any officer or employee of the City except those
officers and employees whose appointment or election is otherwise provided for
by Law or this Charter; and
   (b)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this Charter or
required by the City Council, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Charter.
Sec. 5.03. Administrative Departments.
   There shall be such administrative departments as are established by this
Charter and as may be established by ordinance, all of which shall be under the
control and direction of the City Manager. The City Council may abolish or
combine one or more departments created by it, and by ordinance may assign or
transfer duties of any departments of the City from one department to another.
Sec. 5.04. Directors of Departments.
   At the head of each department there shall be a Director who shall be
appointed, and who may be removed, by the City Manager. Such directors shall
have supervision and control over their respective departments and may serve as
chiefs of divisions within their respective departments. Two or more
departments may be headed by the same individual, and the City Manager may head
one or more departments.
Sec. 5.05. Departmental Organization.
   The work of each department shall be distributed among such divisions as may
be established by ordinance. Pending passage of ordinances establishing
department divisions, the City Manager may establish temporary divisions in any
department.
Sec. 5.06. City Attorney.
   The City Council shall appoint a City Attorney, who shall be a competent
attorney licensed to practice Law in the State of Texas. The City Attorney
shall represent the City in all litigation and legal proceedings. He or she
shall be the legal adviser of, and attorney and counsel for, the City and for
all of the offices and departments thereof. The City Council may retain special
counsel at any time it deems the same appropriate and necessary.
ARTICLE VI. MUNICIPAL COURT
Sec. 6.01. Municipal Court.
   There shall be a court known as the “Municipal Court of the City of Sweeny,
Texas,” for the trial of misdemeanor offenses with all powers and duties as are
granted and prescribed by the Laws of the State of Texas.
Sec. 6.02. Judge of the Municipal Court.
   The office of Judge of the Municipal Court shall be an elective office, for
a term of two years, with such term to run in alternation years with that of
the Mayor. The Judge of the Municipal Court may be removed from office by
majority vote of the City Council for incompetency, misconduct or malfeasance.
   In the event the Judge of the Municipal Court is temporarily unable to act
for any reason, the City Council may appoint a qualified person to act in his
or her place. The Judge, or anyone acting in his or her place, shall receive
such compensation as may be set by the City Council.
   The City Council shall have the power to create and establish additional
Municipal Courts, and to provide for more than one Judge of each Municipal
Court, whether one or more, each of whom shall be a magistrate.
(Amended 5-9-2015)
Sec. 6.03. Clerk of the Municipal Court.
   The City Secretary shall be the Clerk of the Municipal Court. He or she
shall have the power to administer oaths and affidavits, make certificates,
affix the seal of the Court thereto, and otherwise perform any and all acts
necessary in issuing process of such Court and conducting the business thereof.
   There shall be such deputy clerks of the Municipal Court as may be
authorized by the City Council, which deputy clerks shall have authority to act
for and on behalf of the Clerk of the Municipal Court.
Sec. 6.04. Costs, Process, and Procedure in the Municipal Court.
   The City Council shall determine what costs, if any, shall be charged for
proceedings in and for processes issued by the Court.
   The style of all writs issued out of the Municipal Court shall be in the
name of the “City of Sweeny.”
   All jurors shall be residents of the City and shall otherwise possess the
same qualifications as jurors in the State courts, and, they shall be summoned
in the same manner as provided for in Justice Courts.
ARTICLE VII. FINANCE
Sec. 7.01. Fiscal Year.
   The fiscal year of the City shall be as established by ordinance of the City
Council. In the event the City Council does not thus establish the fiscal year,
the fiscal year of the City shall begin on the first day of each October and
end on the last day of September of the following year. All funds collected by
the City during any fiscal year, including both current and delinquent
revenues, shall belong to such fiscal year and, except for funds derived to pay
interest and create a sinking fund on the bonded indebtedness of the City, may
be applied to the payments of expenses incurred during such fiscal year, except
as provided in this Charter. Any revenues uncollected at the end of any fiscal
year, and any unencumbered funds actually on hand, shall become resources of
the next succeeding fiscal year.
Sec. 7.02. Budget Preparation and Adoption.
   At least sixty (60) days prior to the end of each fiscal year, the City
Manager shall submit to the City Council a proposed budget presenting a
complete financial plan for the ensuing fiscal year. If the City Council fails
to adopt an annual budget before the start of the fiscal year to which it
applies, appropriations of the last budget adopted shall be considered as
adopted for the current fiscal year on a month to month, pro rata basis, until
the annual budget is adopted. No budget shall be adopted or appropriations made
unless the total of estimated revenues, income, and funds available shall be
equal to or in excess of such budget or appropriations, except as otherwise
provided in this Article.
   The annual budget shall specify appropriations for capital expenditures and
for expenditures directed by City Council for services and for the operation of
the City. It shall comply with fund requirements of bond covenants.
Sec. 7.03. Appropriation.
   From the effective date of the budget, the several amounts stated therein as
proposed expenditures shall be and become appropriated to the several objects
and purposes named therein. Except as provided in this Article, no funds of the
City shall be expended, nor shall any obligation for the expenditure of money
be incurred, except pursuant to the annual appropriation ordinance provided by
this Article. At the close of the each fiscal year any unencumbered balance of
an appropriation shall revert to the fund from which appropriated and become
available for reappropriation for the next fiscal year. The City Council may
transfer any unencumbered appropriation balance or portion thereof from one
office, department, or agency to another, at any time. The City Manager shall
have authority, without City Council approval, to transfer appropriation
balances from one expenditure account to another within a single office,
department, or agency of the City.
Sec. 7.04. Contingent Appropriation.
   Provision shall be made in the annual budget for a contingent appropriation
in an amount not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the total budget, to be used in
case of unforeseen items of expenditure. Such contingent appropriation shall be
under the control of, and distributed by, the City Manager, after approval by
the City Council. Expenditures from this appropriation shall be made only in
the event of established emergencies or public necessities, and a detailed
account of such expenditures shall be recorded and reported.
Sec. 7.05. Borrowing in Anticipation of Property Taxes.
   In any fiscal year, in anticipation of the collection of the ad valorem
property tax for such year, whether levied or to be levied in such year, the
City Council may by resolution authorize the borrowing of money, not to exceed
in any fiscal year an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the budget for that
fiscal year. Such borrowing shall be by the issuance of negotiable notes of the
City, each of which shall be designated “tax anticipation note for the year
               (stating the tax year).” Such notes shall mature and be payable
not later than the end of the fiscal year in which issued, and may be secured
by the pledge of the ad valorem property taxes for such year.
Sec. 7.06. Depository.
   All moneys received by any person, department, or agency of the City for or
in connection with affairs of the City shall be deposited promptly in the City
depository or depositories, which shall be designated by the City Council in
accordance with such regulations and subject to such requirements as to
security for deposits and interest thereon as may be established by ordinance
or by the Laws of the State of Texas. All checks, vouchers, or warrants for the
withdrawal of money from the City depositories shall be signed by the City
Manager and/or such other person or persons as the City Council shall designate
by ordinance or resolution. Provided, that the City Council, under such
regulations and limitations as it may prescribe, may by ordinance authorize the
use of machine imprinted facsimile signatures on such checks, vouchers car
warrants.
Sec. 7.07. General Obligation Bonds.
   The City shall have the power to borrow money on the credit of the City and
to issue general obligation bonds for permanent public improvements or for any
other public purpose not prohibited by the Constitution and Laws of the State
of Texas, and to issue refunding bonds to refund outstanding bonds of the City
previously issued. All such bonds shall be issued in conformity with the Laws
of the State of Texas.
Sec. 7.08. Revenue Bonds.
   The City shall have the power to borrow money for the purpose of
constructing, purchasing, improving, extending or repairing public utilities,
recreational facilities, or any other self-liquidating municipal function not
prohibited by the Constitution and Laws of the State of Texas, and to issue
revenue bonds to evidence the obligation created thereby. Such bonds shall be a
charge upon and payable solely from the properties, or interest therein,
pledged, or the income therefrom, or both, and shall never be a debt of the
City. All such bonds shall be issued in conformity with the Laws of the State
of Texas.
Sec. 7.09. Sale of Bonds.
   No bond (other than refunding bonds issued to refund and in exchange for
previously issued outstanding bonds) issued by the City shall be sold for less
than par value and accrued interest. All bonds of the City having been issued
and sold in accordance with the terms of this Section, and having been
delivered to the purchasers thereof, shall thereafter be incontestable, and all
bonds issued to refund and in exchange for outstanding bonds previously issued
shall, after said exchange, be incontestable.
Sec. 7.10. Purchase Procedure.
   All purchases made and contracts executed by the City shall be pursuant to a
requisition from the head of the office, department, or agency whose
appropriations will be charged, and no contract or order shall be binding upon
the City unless and until the City Manager certifies that there is to the
credit of such office, department or agency a sufficient unencumbered
appropriation and allotment balance to pay for the supplies, materials,
equipment, or contractual services for which the contract or order is to be
issued. All purchases made and contracts executed by the City shall be in
accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and Laws of the State of
Texas.
Sec. 7.11. Independent Audit.
   At the close of each fiscal year, and at such other times as it may be
deemed necessary, the City Council shall cause an independent audit to be made
of all accounts of the City by a certified public accountant. The certified
pubic accountant selected shall have no personal interest, directly or
indirectly, in the financial affairs of the City or any of its officers. Upon
completion of the audit, copies thereof shall be placed on file in the City
Secretary’s office as a public record.
ARTICLE VIII. TAXATION
Sec. 8.01. Powers of Taxation.
   The City, for any municipal purpose, shall have the power to levy, assess,
and collect taxes of every type and character not prohibited by the
Constitution or Laws of the State of Texas.
Sec. 8.02. Arrears of Taxes Offset to Debt Against City.
   The City shall be entitled to counterclaim and offset against any debt,
claim, demand, or account owed by the City to any person, firm, or corporation
who is in arrears to the City for taxes, in the amount of taxes in arrears, and
no assignment or transfer of such debt, claim, demand, or account after the
said taxes are due shall affect the right of the City to so offset the said
taxes against the same.
ARTICLE IX. FRANCHISES AND PUBLIC UTILITIES
Sec. 9.01. Inalienability of Control of Public Property.
   The right of control and use of the public streets, highways, sidewalks,
alleys, parks, public squares, and public places of the City is hereby declared
to be inalienable by the City, except by ordinances not in conflict with the
provisions of this Charter. No act or omission by the City Council or any
officer of agent of the City shall be construed to grant, renew, extend, or
amend, expressly or by estoppel or implication, any right, franchise, or
easement affecting said public streets, highways, sidewalks, alleys, parks,
public squares, public places, and other real property, except as provided in
this Charter.
Sec. 9.02. Power to Grant Franchise.
   The City Council shall have the power by ordinance to grant, renew, and
extend all franchises of all public utilities of every character operating
within the City and, with consent of the franchise holder, to amend the same.
Provided, however, no franchise shall be granted for an indeterminate term, and
that no franchise shall be granted for a term of more than twenty-five (25)
years.
Sec. 9.03. Ordinance Granting Franchise.
   Every ordinance granting, renewing, extending, or amending a public utility
franchise shall be read at two regular meetings of the City Council, and shall
not be finally acted upon until thirty (30) days after the first reading
thereof. Within ten (10) days following the first reading of the ordinance, the
full text thereof shall be published in the official newspaper of the City, and
the expense of such publication shall be borne by the prospective franchise
holder.
Sec. 9.04. Transfer of Franchise.
   No public utility franchise shall be transferred by the holder thereof
except with the approval of the City Council expressed by ordinance.
Sec. 9.05. Regulation of Franchise.
   Every grant, renewal, extension, or amendment of a public utility franchise,
whether provided in the ordinance or not, shall be subject to the right of the
City Council:
   (1)   To forfeit any such franchise by ordinance at any time for failure of
the holder thereof to comply with the terms of the franchise. Such power shall
be exercised only after written notice to the franchise holder stating wherein
the franchise holder has failed to comply with the terms of the franchise and
setting a reasonable time for the correction of such failure, and shall be
exercised only after hearing and after such reasonable time has expired.
   (2)   To impose reasonable regulations to insure safe, efficient, and
continuous service to the public.
   (3)   To require such expansion, extension, enlargement, and improvements of
plants and facilities as are necessary to provide adequate service to the
public.
   (4)   To require every franchise holder to furnish to the City, without cost
to the City, full information regarding the location, character, size, length,
and terminals of all facilities of such franchise holder in, over, and under
the streets, alleys, and other public property of the City; and to regulate and
control the location, relocation, and removal of such facilities.
   (5)   To collect from every public utility operating in the City such
proportion of the expense of excavating, grading, paving, repaving,
constructing, reconstructing, draining, repairing, maintaining, lighting,
sweeping, and sprinkling the streets, alleys, bridges, culverts, viaducts, and
other public places of the City as represents the increased cost of such
operation resulting from the occupancy of such public place by such public
utility, and such proportion of the costs of such operations as results from
the damage to or disturbance of such public places caused by such public
utility; or to compel such public utility to perform, at its own expense, such
operations as above listed which are made necessary by the occupancy of such
public places by such utility or by damage to or disturbance of such public
places caused by such public utility.
   (6)   To require every franchise holder to allow other public utilities to
use its poles and other facilities, including bridges and viaducts, whenever in
the judgment of the City Council such use shall be in the public interest,
provided that in such event reasonable terms of use may be imposed and a
reasonable rental shall be paid such owner of facilities for such use. Provided
further, that inability of such public utilities to agree upon terms of use and
rentals for such facilities shall not be an excuse for failure to comply with
such requirement by the City Council.
   (7)   a.   To require the keeping of accounts in such form as will
accurately reflect the value of the property of each franchise holder which is
used and useful in rendering its service to the public and the expenses,
receipts, and profits of all kinds of such franchise holder;
      b.   To examine and audit at any time during business hours the accounts
and other records of any franchise holder; and
      c.   To require reports on the operations of the utility, which shall be
in such form and contain such information, as the City Council shall prescribe.
Sec. 9.06. Regulation of Rates.
   The City Council shall have full power after notice and hearing to regulate
by ordinance the rates, charges, and fares of every public utility franchise
holder operating in the City. Every franchise holder who shall request an
increase in rates, charges, or fares, shall have, at the hearing of the City
Council called to consider such request, the burden of establishing by clear,
competent, and convincing evidence, the value of its investments properly
allocable to service in the City, and the amount and character of its expenses
and revenues connected with the rendering of such service. No public utility
franchise holder shall institute any legal action to contest any rate, charge,
or fare fixed by the City Council until such franchise holder has filed a
motion for rehearing with the City Council specifically setting out each ground
of its complaint against the rate, charge, or fare fixed by the City Council,
and until the City Council shall have acted upon such motion. Such motion shall
be deemed overruled unless acted upon by the City Council within a reasonable
time, not to exceed ninety (90) days from the filing of such motion for
rehearing; provided, however, the City Council may by ordinance or resolution
extend such time limit for acting on said motion for rehearing from ninety (90)
days to one hundred eighty (180) days.
ARTICLE X. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 10.01. Interim Government.
   Upon the adoption of this Charter, the incumbent members of the present
governing body of the City shall become the initial City Council provided for
in this Charter. Each member of the City Council thus constituted shall
continue in the place to which he or she was elected and shall hold such office
for the same term for which he or she was elected as a member of the present
City Council and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. The City
Council as thus constituted shall have all the powers provided in this Charter.
Sec. 10.02. Continuation of Government.
   Any ordinance in effect at the time this Charter is adopted, and not
otherwise in conflict with this Charter, which refers to some office or
employment of the City which ceases to exist under this Charter, shall continue
in force and the powers and duties therein prescribed shall be the powers and
duties of the office or employment which, under this Charter, succeeds to the
sane general powers and duties of such office or employment.
Sec. 10.03. Effect of Charter on Existing Law.
   All ordinances, resolutions, rules, and, regulations in force in the City as
of the effective date of this Charter, and not in conflict with this Charter,
shall remain in force until amended or repealed by the City Council. All taxes,
assessments, liens, encumbrances, and demands of or against the City, fixed or
established before such date, or for the fixing or establishing of which
proceedings have begun before such date, shall be valid when properly fixed or
established either under the ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations in
force at the time of the beginning of such proceedings or in force after the
adoption of this Charter.
Sec. 10.04. Official Oath.
   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all officers of
the City shall take and subscribe the official oath prescribed in the
Constitution of the State of Texas.
Sec. 10.05. Public Records.
   All public records of every office, department, or agency of the City shall
be open to inspection by any citizen at all reasonable times in accordance with
applicable open records laws.
Sec. 10.06. Official Newspaper.
   The City Council shall have power to contract annually with, and by
ordinance or resolution designate, a public newspaper of general circulation in
the City as the official newspaper thereof and to continue as such until
another is designated, and shall cause to be published therein all ordinances,
notices, and other matters required to be published by this Charter, by the
ordinances of the City, or by the Constitution or Laws of the State of Texas.
Sec. 10.07. Tort Liability.
   Before the City shall be liable for damages for the death or personal
injuries of any person or for damages to or destruction of property of any
kind, which does not constitute a taking or damaging of property under Article
1, Section 17, Constitution of the State of Texas, the person injured, if
living, or the person’s representatives, if deceased, or the parent or guardian
of a minor child, or the owner, or the owner’s agent or attorney, of the
property damaged or destroyed, shall give the City Manager notice in writing of
such death, injury, damage, or destruction, duly verified by affidavit, within
sixty (60) days after same has been sustained, stating specifically in such
written notice when, where, and how the death, injury, damage, or destruction
occurred, and the apparent extent of any such injury, the amount of damages
sustained, the actual residence of the claimant by street and number on the
date the claim is presented, the actual residence of such claimant for six (6)
months immediately preceding the occurrence of such death, injury, damage, or
destruction, and the names and addresses of all witnesses upon whom it is
relied to establish the claim for damages. The failure to so notify the City
Manager within the time and manner specified herein shall exonerate, excuse,
and exempt the City from any liability whatsoever. No act of any officer or
employee of the City shall waive compliance, or preclude the City from
requiring compliance, with the provisions of this Section as to notice.
Sec. 10.08. Assignment, Execution and Garnishment.
   The property, real and personal, belonging to the City shall not be liable
for sale or appropriation under any writ of execution. The funds belonging to
the City, in the hands of any person, firm or corporation, shall not be liable
to garnishment on account of any debt it may owe or funds or property it may
have on hand or owing to any person. Neither the City nor any of its officers
or agents shall be required to answer any such writ of garnishment on any
account whatever. The City shall not be obligated to recognize any assignment
of wages or funds by its employees, agents, or contractors.
Sec. 10.09. Security or Bond Not Required.
   It shall not be necessary in any action, suit, or proceeding, in which the
City shall be a party, for any bond, undertaking or security to be executed in
behalf of the City; but all actions, suits and proceedings shall be conducted
in the same manner as if such bond, undertaking or security had been given. The
City shall have all remedies by appeal, as provided by law, to all courts of
this State without bond or security of any kind. For the purposes of such
actions, suits, proceedings and appeals, the City shall be liable in the same
manner, and to the same extent, as if the bond, undertaking or security in
ordinary cases had been given and executed.
Sec. 10.10. Personal Interest in City Contracts.
   No member of the City Council, the City Manager, or other officer or
employee of the City shall have a pecuniary interest in any contract, the
expense, price, or consideration of which is paid from the City Treasury, or
have a pecuniary interest in any matter or item requiring the approval or
consent of the City, unless in compliance with applicable Laws of the State of
Texas governing conflicts of interest.
Sec. 10.11. Nepotism.
   No member of the City Council, the City Manager, or other officer of the
City shall appoint, or approve, vote for, or confirm the appointment of, any
person to any paid office, position, employment, duty, or other service of the
City if such person is related within the second degree by affinity or within
the third degree by consanguinity to the person making such appointment or to
any member of the City Council or the City Manager. No person to whom this
prohibition applies shall be permitted to embark upon any duties or commence
any employment with the City or receive any salary, fee, or other emolument
from the City. Provided, however, nothing contained in this Charter or in any
ordinance of the City shall prevent the appointment, approval, voting for, or
confirmation, of any person who shall have been continuously employed in any
office, position, employment, duty, or other service of the City for a period
of at least two (2) years prior to the election or appointment of the member or
officer appointing, approving, voting for, or confirming the appointment, or to
the election or appointment of the member or officer related to such person in
the prohibited degree.
Sec. 10.12. Health, Life, and Accident Insurance for City Employees.
   The City Council shall have the power, exercisable in its discretion, and
subject to such limitations and regulations as it shall deem proper, to create,
operate, amend, and contract for an insurance plan covering health, life, and
accident insurance, or any of them, for any or all City employees and their
dependents, and to pay the premiums or a portion thereof, therefor.
Sec. 10.13. Boards, Agencies, and Commissions.
   The City Council shall have the authority to establish by ordinance such
boards, agencies, and commissions as it may deem necessary or desirable for the
conduct of the City’s business and the management of its affairs. The
authority, duties, functions, and responsibilities of such boards, agencies,
and commissions shall be such as are specified by ordinance. The authority,
duties, functions, and responsibilities thus granted to and conferred on such
boards, agencies, and commissions shall not be incompatible with the provisions
of this Charter and shall in no manner conflict with, usurp or transfer any
privilege, authority, duty, function, or responsibility specifically granted
herein or by the Laws of the State of Texas to another officer, board, agency,
or commission of the City.
Sec. 10.14. Rearrangement and Renumbering.
   The City Council shall have the power, by ordinance, to renumber and
rearrange all Articles, Sections, and paragraphs of this Charter or any
amendments thereto, as it shall deem appropriate, and upon the passage of any
such ordinance a copy thereof, certified by the City Secretary, shall be
forwarded to the Secretary of State for filing.
Sec. 10.15. Judicial Notice.
   This Charter shall be deemed a public act, shall have the force and effect
of a general law, may be read in evidence without pleading or proof, and
judicial notice shall be taken thereof in all courts and places without further
proof.
Sec. 10.16. Construction of Charter.
   This Charter shall not be construed as a mere grant of enumerated powers,
but shall be construed as a general grant of power and as a limitation of power
on the government of the City in the same manner as the Constitution of Texas
is construed as a limitation on the powers of the Legislature. Except where
expressly prohibited by this Charter, each and every power under Article XI,
Section 5, of the Constitution of Texas which it would be competent for the
people of the City of Sweeny to grant expressly to the City, shall be construed
to be granted to the City by this Charter.
Sec. 10.17. Severability Clause.
   If any section or part of a Section of this Charter is held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall
not invalidate or impair the validity, force, or effect of any other Section or
part of a Section of this Charter.
Sec. 10.18. Submission of Charter to Voters.
   The Charter Commission in preparing this Charter finds and declares that it
is impracticable to segregate each subject so that the voter may vote “Yes” or
“No” on the same, for the reason that the Charter is so constructed that in
order to enable it to work and function it is necessary that it should be
adopted in its entirety. For these reasons the Charter Commission directs that
said Charter be voted upon as a whole and that it be submitted to the qualified
voters of the City at an election to be held for that purpose on the 6th day of
May, 2000. Such election shall be held in accordance with applicable law. After
said Charter is approved by a majority of the qualified voters voting at said
election, it shall become the Charter of the City of Sweeny upon the entering
upon the records of said City of the governing body of the City an official
order declaring the adoption of said Charter.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the municipality of Sweeny,
Texas, shall be designated as the “Code of Sweeny, Texas,” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Sweeny, Texas.
      CITY SECRETARY, CHIEF OF POLICE or OTHER CITY OFFICERS or DEPARTMENTS.
These terms shall be construed to mean the City Manager, City Secretary, Chief
of Police or other municipal officers or departments, respectively, of the
city.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code, as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNCIL. The legislative body of the city.
      COUNTY. Brazoria County, Texas.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise. See also CITY SECRETARY, CHIEF OF POLICE or OTHER
CITY OFFICERS or DEPARTMENTS. 
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Texas.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the municipality shall be by the
following rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anyway be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code, which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code, may be numbered in accordance
with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion therein. When
subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or division or any portion
thereof, those repealed portions may be excluded from the code by omission from
reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted
in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of those subsequent
ordinances until the time that this code and subsequent ordinances numbered or
omitted are readopted as a new code by the City Council.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section     of the Code of Ordinances,
City of Sweeny, Texas is hereby amended to read as follows: . . .” The new
provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to
be added, the following language shall be used: “That the Code of Ordinances,
City of Sweeny, Texas is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered
     , which said section reads as follows: . . .” The new section shall then
be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord.
20, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 31.10 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
      The city has the authority to impose penalties for ordinance violations.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      General municipality penalty, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any provision of this
code or any ordinance shall be punished by:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $2,000 in all cases arising under municipal
ordinances that govern fire safety, zoning and public health and sanitation
other than vegetation and litter violations;
      (2)   A fine not to exceed $2,000, if a motor vehicle is used in illegal
dumping or an offense under the law or city ordinance violated by the illegal
dumping; and
      (3)   A fine not to exceed $500 in all other cases, provided, however,
that no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same
or a similar offense under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. In the event that any violation is
designated as a nuisance under the provisions of this code, the nuisance may be
summarily abated by the City Manager or the Chief of Police or their assigns.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal penalties, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   CITY COUNCIL
         
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
         
32.   PERSONNEL
         
33.   CITY POLICIES
         
34.   RECORDS MANAGEMENT
         
35.   BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
         
36.   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
         
37.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
         
38.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Compensation
   
30.02   Elections
Cross-reference:
   Elections; write-in candidates, see
§ 33.02
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of City Council members shall be as set from time to time
by city government ordinance or resolution.
§ 30.02 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council hereby determines that the members of the City
Council shall be elected to office by a numbered position, with the City
Council members being numbered one through five.
      (2)   Members of the Council whose terms of office expire in even
numbered years shall be numbered one, three and five and each member shall draw
from a hat containing the numbers on separate pieces of paper to determine the
number or position which they occupy.
      (3)   Members of the Council whose terms of office expire in odd numbered
years shall be numbered two and four and each member shall draw from a hat
containing the numbers on separate pieces of paper to determine the number or
position which they occupy.
   (B)   Persons desiring to be candidates for Office of Council member shall
file for a particular place or position on the Council, such as either one,
three or five in even numbered years or two or four in odd numbered years.
(Ord. 117-88, passed 7-19-88)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Fire Marshal
   
31.02   City Administrator
   
31.03   Tax Assessor/Collector; City Secretary
   
31.04   Temporary Municipal Judge
Cross-reference:
   Chief of Police; officers, see
§ 35.70
§ 31.01 FIRE MARSHAL.
   (A)   There is hereby established an office of Fire Marshal for the city and
an Assistant Fire Marshal.
   (B)   The Office of Fire Marshal shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor
of the city, with the advice and consent of the City Council. The Mayor may
appoint with the advice and consent of the City Council, one or more Assistant
Fire Marshal.
   (C)   (1)   The Fire Marshal and any Assistant Fire Marshal shall be an
adult citizen of the city and shall have the following qualifications:
      (2)   Have a working knowledge of:
         (a)   The Fire Prevention Code and ordinance of the city and the
statutes of the state;
         (b)   Fire prevention practices;
         (c)   Fire hazards and corrective procedures:
         (d)   The proper procedures for inspecting and reinspecting properties
for potential fire hazards;
         (e)   Federal laws governing fire prevention and equipment;
         (f)   Attend Fire Marshal training at A&M or comparable school once
each year;
         (g)   The ability to enforce the Municipal Fire Code.
   (D)   (1)   The Fire Marshal shall perform the following duties of office:
         (a)   Supervise the first line of defense against fire by prevention;
         (b)   Make periodic inspections and reinspection in accordance with
sound fire prevention practices;
         (c)   Co-ordinate fire prevention education with Fire Chief; (The Fire
Marshal’s budget shall be included in the Fire Department budget.)
         (d)   Investigate all fires and to the best of his ability determine
the cause of fire or fires;
         (e)   Work with other city departments, inspectors and state agencies;
         (f)   Make and keep complete accurate records and reports;
         (g)   Submit required reports to the State Board and City Council
monthly on forms substantially comparable to the form attached hereto; and
         (h)   Enforcement of the Municipal Fire Code.
      (2)   He or she shall investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of
every fire occurring within the city by which property has been damaged or
destroyed and shall especially make investigations in conjunction with the
Police Department as to whether the fire was the result of carelessness or
design or unforeseen event. The investigation shall commence within 20 hours
following the occurrence of the fire, excluding Sundays. The Fire Marshal shall
keep in his or her office a record of all fires, together with all facts,
statistics and circumstances, including the origin or the fixes and the amount
of the loss, which may be determined by the investigation required by this
provision.
      (3)   The Fire Marshal, in making his or her investigations or in making
further investigations, shall take or cause to be taken the testimony, on oath,
of all persons who are supposed to be cognizant of any facts or to have means
of knowledge in relation to the other under investigation and shall cause the
same to be reduced to writing; and if he or she shall be of the opinion that
there is evidence sufficient to charge any person with the crime of arson, or
with the attempt to co-assist the crime of arson or of conspiracy to defraud or
of criminal conduct in connection with the fire, he or she shall furnish to the
proper prosecuting attorney all evidence together with the names of witnesses
and all of the information obtained by him or her, including copy of all
pertinent and material testimony taken in the case.
      (4)   The duty to enforce the fire prevention regulations as the
governing body may adopt.
   (E)   (1)   The Fire Marshal shall have the power to summon witness before
him or her to testify in relation to any matter which is by the provision of
this section a subject of inquiry and investigation, and may require the
production of books, papers or documents deemed pertinent thereto.
      (2)   The Fire Marshal shall have the power to cause any witness who
refuses to be sworn, or who refuses to appear or testify, or who disobeys any
lawful order of the Fire Marshal, or who to produce any books, papers or
documents touching any matter under examination, or who is guilty of any
contemptuous conduct during any of the proceedings during any of the
proceedings of the Fire Marshal in the matter of the investigation or inquiry,
after being summoned to give testimony in relation to any matter under
investigation as aforesaid, shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be fined in an
amount not less than $1 nor more than $200 from which conviction the person
charged shall have the right of appeal as provided by law.
      (3)   The Fire Marshal shall have the right to determine whether his or
her investigations or re- investigations shall be public or private. He or she
may exclude from the scene of investigation and re- investigation all persons
other than those required to be present and testify.
      (4)   He or she conducting the investigations or re-investigations, the
Fire Marshal shall have the right to invoke the rule keeping all witnesses
separate and apart and prohibiting their conversations with each other during
the hearing process.
      (5)   The Fire Marshal shall have the right and authority at all times,
day or night, when reasonably necessary in the performance of his or her duties
imposed upon him or her by the provisions of the law and this section, to enter
upon and examine any building or premises where a fire has occurred and other
buildings and premises adjoining or near the same, which authority shall be
exercised according to the State Fire Code rules.
(Ord. 101-89, passed 1-17-89)
§ 31.02 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Office of City Administrator for the
city.
   (B)   A qualified person shall be appointed City Administrator of the city
by a majority vote of those persons authorized to vote on any question before
the City Council. The City Administrator shall be chosen by the City Council
solely upon his or her executive and administrative qualifications and upon his
or her experience and knowledge. The City Administrator must establish a
residence in the city not later than 90 days following his or her selection by
the Council. No member of the City Council shall be eligible for appointment as
City Administrator during the term in which he or she was elected, nor within
one year after the expiration of his or her term.
   (C)   The City Council may remove the City Administrator from office at any
time by majority vote of its members. If requested, the governing body shall
grant the City Administrator a public hearing within 30 days following notice
of removal. During the interim period, the governing body may suspend the City
Administrator from duty, but shall continue his or her salary and, if removal
becomes final, shall, except in cases of dismissal for failure to properly
carry out the powers and duties set out in this chapter or any amendment
hereto, pay his or her salary for two calendar months following the final
removal date.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of
the city. He or her may head one or more departments of the city and shall be
responsible to the City Council for the proper administration of all the
affairs of the city. To that end, he or she is empowered and required to:
      (1)   (a)   Appoint and, when necessary for the orderly and/or efficient
administration of the city, suspend or remove all officers and employees of the
city, except as otherwise provided by the city ordinances or state or federal
law and except as he or she may authorize the head of a department or office to
appoint, suspend or remove in the department or office; and
         (b)   With the advice and consent of the City Council to appoint and
remove all heads of departments within the city, except the Fire Department,
Police Department and the Judicial Department;
      (2)   To be the budget officer and as such prepare and submit to the City
Council, prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, a budget of proposed
expenditures for the ensuing year, showing in as much detail as is practicable
the estimated amounts of required by month for the efficient operation of each
department of the city government and the reasons for the estimated
expenditures and make and file a budget as required by state and federal law;
      (3)   Prepare and submit to the City Council at the end of the fiscal
year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the
city for the preceding year;
      (4)   Cause the City Council to be advised of the financial condition and
future needs of the city and make recommendations as he or she may deem
desirable on a monthly basis at the regular meeting of the City Council;
      (5)   Recommend to the City Council a schedule of pay for each appointive
office and position in the service of the city, including minimum, intermediate
and maximum rates.
      (6)   Recommend to the City Council from time to time the adoption of
measures which he or she deems necessary or expedient to promote the health,
safety or welfare of the citizens and visitors to the city or for the
improvement of administrative services;
      (7)   With approval of the City Council, consolidator or combine offices,
positions, departments or units under his or her jurisdiction; (The City
Administrator may head one or more departments.)
      (8)   Act as chief purchasing agent of the city, and supervise the
purchase of all materials, supplies and equipment for which funds have been
provided for in the annual budget of the city; negotiate and let contracts
necessary for operation or maintenance of city services where budgeted in
amounts up to $5,000; to receive sealed bids for purchases or contracts in
excess of $5,000 and present them to the City Council for approval; advise the
City Council on the advantages and disadvantages of contract and bid proposals;
(No purchase shall be made, contract let or obligation incurred for any item or
service with exceeds current budget appropriation without a supplemental
appropriation by the Council. The Administrator may issue the rules governing
purchasing procedures within the administrative organization as the City
Council shall approve.)
      (9)   Supervise the enforcement of all laws and ordinances of the city;
      (10)   Investigate the affairs of the city or any department or division
thereof and investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the government of the city, and in regard to service
maintained by the public utilities in the city, and see that all franchises,
permits, and privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed, except the
Fire Department, Police Department and the Judicial Department;
      (11)   Perform other and further duties as may be required by the City
Council which are not inconsistent with the ordinances of the city, laws of the
state or of the United States; and
      (12)   Attend unless otherwise authorized by the City Council, all
meetings of the City Council and give his or her input on all matters before
the City Council when requested to do so.
   (E)   Except for the purpose of inquiry, the City Council and its members
shall deal with the administrative service solely through the City
Administrator and the neither the Council, or its members shall give orders to
any subordinates of the City Administrator, either publicly or privately.
   (F)   In case of accident, disaster or other circumstance creating an urgent
public necessity, the City Administrator may award contracts, with City Council
for approval, and advise the City Council on the advantages and disadvantages
of contract and bid proposals. No purchase shall be made, contract let or
obligation incurred for any item or service with exceeds current budget
appropriation without a supplemental appropriation by the City Council. The
Administrator may issue the rules governing purchasing procedures within the
administrative organization as the Council shall approve.
(Ord. 110-88, passed 10-20-87)
§ 31.03 TAX ASSESSOR/COLLECTOR; CITY SECRETARY.
   (A)   The Office of City Secretary shall and is hereby separated from the
Office of Tax Assessor/Collector of the city and the duties of the Tax
Assessor/Collector shall be hereafter performed by the person designated below.
   (B)   The Tax Assessor/Collector hereof shall perform all duties and
functions provided by law for tax assessors and collectors of municipal
corporations. The Chief Deputy, so appointed, shall perform the duties as may
be imposed upon the appointee by law, by the Tax Assessor/Collector, and in
absence of the Tax Assessor/Collector shall perform the duties and functions
provided by law for tax assessor collectors of municipal corporation for the
city.
   (C)   Before entering upon the performance of the duties of office, the
appointed Tax Assessor/Collector and Chief Deputy shall take the constitutional
oath of office required by law and shall give bond, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of office and accounting for all tax funds
coming into the hands of the appointees. The amount of the bond shall be as set
by Council.
   (D)   The Office of City Secretary shall continue to perform the duties of
Treasurer of the city until otherwise ordained by the City Council.
(Ord. 266, passed 5-1-79)
§ 31.04 TEMPORARY MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   In the event the judge of the Municipal Court is temporarily unable to act
for any reason, the City Council may appoint a qualified person to act in his
or her place. The judge, or anyone acting in his or her place, shall receive
such compensation as may be set by the City Council.
(Ord. 156, passed 10-19-67; Am. Ord. 104-14, passed 7-15-14)
CHAPTER 32: PERSONNEL
Section
   
32.01   Personnel policies adopted by reference
   
32.02   Controlled substance abuse policies adopted by reference
   
32.03   Retirement funds and policies adopted by reference
§ 32.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   City personnel rules and regulations, copies of which are maintained by the
city, for all purposes, are hereby officially adopted and approved, and where
there exists a conflict between any of the ordinances contained in this code of
ordinances and any of the city personnel rules and regulations, the city
personnel rules and regulations shall govern and prevail.
§ 32.02 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   City personnel rules and regulations concerning controlled substance
policies and regulations, copies of which are maintained by the city, for all
purposes, are hereby officially adopted and approved, and where there exists a
conflict between any of the ordinances contained in this code of ordinances and
any of the city personnel rules and regulations concerning controlled substance
policies and regulations, the city personnel rules and regulations concerning
controlled substance policies and regulations shall govern and prevail.
§ 32.03 RETIREMENT FUNDS AND POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Election to participate in the TMRS. On behalf of the city, the City
Council hereby exercises its option and elects to have the city and all of the
employees of all departments, except the fire department, participate in the
Texas Municipal Retirement System (hereafter “TMRS”) as provided in Tex. Gov’t
Code §§ 851.001 et seq., as amended; and all of the benefits and obligations of
the system are hereby accepted.
   (B)   Election to participate in the TMRS Supplemental Benefits Fund. The
City Council elects to have the employees of all participating departments of
the city participate in and be covered by the Supplemental Benefits Fund of the
Texas Municipal Retirement System, as provided by Tex. Gov’t Code §§ 851.001 et
seq.; and all the benefits and obligations of participation in the fund are
hereby accepted by the city as to the employees.
   (C)   Adoption by reference. Ordinances effecting the plan for participation
in the TMRS, employee contributions, updated service credits, increases in
benefits and retirement annuities and any other applicable legislation of the
city and state are adopted by reference into this code of ordinances as if
fully set forth herein and shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk.
CHAPTER 33: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Warrants for arrests; expenses
   
33.02   Elections; write-in candidates
   
33.03   Identity Theft Policy
   
Appendix A:    Identity Theft Prevention Program and Policies
§ 33.01 WARRANTS FOR ARRESTS; EXPENSES.
   (A)   (1)   The Municipal Court, in addition to the fines assessed by the
Court, shall, pursuant to Tex. Crim. Pro. Code, Art. 45.203, assess and collect
from the Defendant Special Services Expenses, not to exceed $25 for the
issuance and service of a warrant of arrest for an offense under Tex. Pen. Code
§ 38.10, Tex. Transp. Code § 543.00. Money collected from the special expense
shall be paid into the municipal treasury for the use and benefit of the
municipality.
      (2)   A special expense shall be levied and collected from a defendant in
the sum of not more than $10 for services performed in cases in which the laws
of the state require the case to be dismissed because of actions by or on
behalf of the defendant which were subsequent to the date of the alleged
offense, as authorized under Tex. Crim. Pro. Code, Art. 45.541(q). The actions
of the defendant shall be limited to those set forth in Tex. Crim. Pro. Code,
Art. 45.541(p).
   (B)   The Municipal Court shall account for and turn over to the Treasurer
of the city all special expenses as collected which shall be deposited to the
General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 109-87, passed 8-18-87)
§ 33.02 ELECTIONS; WRITE IN CANDIDATES.
   (A)   (1)   No write-in vote shall be valid in an election for an office of
the city unless the person for whom the write-in vote has been cast has
delivered to the City Secretary a written declaration of the person’s write-in
candidacy, at least 30 days before the election date.
      (2)   The written declaration must be signed by the write-in candidate
before filing. No write-in candidate who fails to comply with this section
shall be eligible to be elected to the office in the election.
   (B)   This section does not expressly or impliedly abolish or impair any
other qualifications or requirements existing or created under any law for any
person to be a candidate or a write-in candidate or to hold public office.
(Ord. 106-91, passed 3-19-91)
Cross-reference:
   Elections of City Council members, see
§ 30.02
§ 33.03 IDENTITY THEFT POLICY.
   (A)   The recitals found in Ord. 102-09 are hereby found to be true and
correct and are hereby adopted by the Council.
   (B)   All procedures and requirements of the Identity Theft Prevention
Program shall be implemented as outlined in Appendix A.
(Ord. 102-09, passed 2-17-09)
APPENDIX A: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM AND POLICIES
   (1)   Purpose. To ensure the city has a program in place to identify,
detect, prevent, diminish and respond to identity theft in connection with the
opening of water accounts or any other accounts and to establish written
procedures for security and storing of personal information, pursuant to the
Identity Theft Red Flags Regulation implemented pursuant to § 114 of the Fair
and Accurate Credit Transactions (FACT) Act of 2008.
   (2)   Application. This policy applies to all city employees and service
providers that have access to personal information for customers of the Utility
Billing Department, regardless of medium.
   (3)   Definitions.
      IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed using the identifying information of
another person.
      IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. Any name or number that may be used alone or
with any other information to identify a specific person (includes name, social
security number, date of birth, alien registration number, government passport
and employer/tax identification number).
      RED FLAGS. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible risk of identity theft.
   (4)   Policy.
      (A)   Red flags alert. When opening new accounts, staff needs to
carefully scrutinize documents submitted for identification or proof of
residency for red flags such as:
         1.   Documents provided for identification appear to be altered or
forged;
         2.   The photograph or physical description on the identification is
not consistent with the appearance of the customer requesting service;
         3.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person requesting service;
         4.   Other information is not consistent with information that is on
file (i.e. previous application submitted with driver’s license);
         5.   Lease or deed submitted to proof of residency appears to be
altered or forged;
         6.   Personal information submitted is associated with known
fraudulent activity;
         7.   The social security number is the same as another customer’s;
         8.   Notification of a chargeback received from the bank;
         9.   New account requested immediately after disconnection for non-
payment;
         10.   Report of fraud accompanying a consumer credit report;
         11.   Notice or report from a consumer credit agency of a credit
freeze on a customer or applicant;
         12.   Notice or report from a consumer credit reporting agency of an
active duty alert for an applicant;
         13.   Indication from a consumer credit report of activity that is
inconsistent with a customer’s usual pattern of activity;
         14.   Change of address for an account followed by a request to change
the account holder’s name;
         15.   Payments stop on an otherwise consistently up-to-date account;
         16.   Mail sent to the account holder that is repeatedly returned as
undeliverable;
         17.   Notice to the Utility that a customer is not receiving mail sent
by the Utility;
         18.   Notice to the Utility that an account has unauthorized activity;
         19.   Breach in the Utility’s computer system security;
         20.   Unauthorized access to or use of customer account information;
and/or
         21.   Notice to the Utility from a customer, identity theft victim,
fraud detection service, law enforcement or other person that it has opened or
is maintaining a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
      (B)   New account application.
         1.   To ensure proper identification verification, effective March 1,
2009, all requests for new service must be completed in person.
         2.   Applicants must show a government issued photo ID (or two forms
of picture identification) in person to initiate service.
         3.   Applications may be submitted by fax, e-mail or mail, but will
not be processed until proper identification verification is completed in
person.
         4.   Applications must be completed by the person seeking to open an
account. The name on the application must match the submitted identification
and lease agreement/deed.
         5.   The city reserves the right to refuse service in the event of
inability to provide sufficient identification.
      (C)   Credit card transactions. The city accepts credit card payments via
service vendor official payments. Customers paying with a credit card must show
valid identification that matches the name and/or address on the credit card.
      (D)   Data security and storage.
         1.   Employees and confidentiality. Employees are required to maintain
a high level of confidentiality as it relates to utility customer’s personal
information. Release of information is limited to the account holder(s) or as
permitted by law. Customers are given the opportunity to indicate if they wish
their account information be kept confidential.
         2.   Access into the billing system.  Access into the billing system
requires a user name assigned by the System Administrator. A password is also
required, which is determined by the user and is CJIS (Criminal Justice
Information Systems) compliant based on the city’s IT Security Policy that has
been implemented. The system will permit three sign on attempts and then will
temporarily disable the password. Upon termination, employee passwords are
immediately disabled.
         3.   Disclosure of personal information. Personal information is, or
could be used as a means of identification, for internal verification, or
administration purposes, credit checks and for debt collection purposes.
Information submitted to the city’s debt collection agency is on file in the
Utility Billing office.
         4.   Data storage. Hard copy information is stored in filing cabinets
in the Utility Billing office. The office is monitored by security cameras and
locked doors. Cash receipt information is stored in the locked safe and account
storage areas.
      (E)   Data retention/access.
         1.   Records are disposed on in accordance with state and federal law
including the local records retention schedule issued by the Texas State
Library and Archives Commission and City Code.
         2.   All city records are subject to the Texas Public Information Act.
Requests for information that falls within confidentiality conditions are
forwarded to the Attorney General’s office for an official ruling for the
information to be withheld.
      (F)   Identity theft notification. A zero tolerance policy is in effect
for all fraudulent transactions pertaining to the Utility Billing Department.
Once written notification and verification is received of fraudulent activity
from a customer, banking institution and/or collection agency, the Utility
Billing Department will:
         1.   Proceed with notating and taking corrective actions on the
account;
         2.   Gather all pertinent information that is available; and
         3.   Immediately contact the Police Department to initiate a criminal
investigation.
      (G)   Periodic review and reporting. The City Manager will conduct an
annual review of the current policy to determine the existence of any
fraudulent activity. The City Manager shall approve any recommended changes in
policy.
(Ord. 102-09, passed 2-17-09)
CHAPTER 34: RECORDS MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   Definition of records
   
34.02   Records declared public property
   
34.03   Policy
   
34.04   Records management officer
   
34.05   Records control schedules
§ 34.01 DEFINITION OF RECORDS.
   All documents, papers, letters, books, maps, photographs, sound, or video
recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape, electronic media, or other information
recording media, regardless of physical form or characteristic and regardless
of whether public access to it is open or restricted under the laws of the
state, created or received by the city or any of its officers or employees
pursuant to law or in the transaction of public business are hereby declared to
be the records of the city and shall be created, maintained, and disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of the ordinance or procedures authorized by it
and in no other manner.
(Ord. 100-17, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 34.02 RECORDS DECLARED PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All records as defined in §
34.01 of this plan are hereby declared to be the property of the city. No
offficial or employee of the city has, by virtue of his or her position, any
personal or property right to such records even though he or she may have
developed or complied them. The unauthorized destruction, removal from files,
or use of such records is prohibited.
(Ord. 100-17, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 34.03 POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to provide for efficient,
economical, and effective controls over the creation, distribution,
organization, maintenance, use, and disposition of all for the management of
records from their creation to their ultimate disposition, consistent with the
requirements of the Local Government Records Act and accepted records
management practice.
(Ord. 100-17, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 34.04 RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Secretary will serve as records management officer of the city as
provided by law and will ensure that hte maintenance, destruction, electronic
storage, or other disposition of the records of this office are carried out in
accordance with the requirements of the Local Government Records Act.
(Ord. 100-17, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 34.05 RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES.
   Appropriate records control schedules issued by the Texas State Library and
Archives Commission shall be adopted by the records management officer for use
in the city, as provided by law. Any distruction of records of the city, will
be in accordance with these schedules and the Local Government Records Act.
(Ord. 100-17, passed 10-18-2016)
CHAPTER 35: BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Park and Recreation Board
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Members; terms
   
35.03   Active participation required
   
35.04   Election of officers; procedure
   
35.05   Powers and duties
   
35.06   Representative; appointment
Reserve Police Force
   
35.35   Establishment
   
35.36   Composition; qualifications
   
35.37   Application for membership
   
35.38   Minimum physical, mental and similar requirements
   
35.39   Uniforms
   
35.40   Action; powers; restrictions
   
35.41   Compensation
Fire Hazard Inspection Committee
   
35.55   Establishment
   
35.56   Members sworn in
   
35.57   Powers and duties; authority
   
35.58   Reports and public hearings
Police Department
   
35.70   Chief of Police; officers
Capital Improvement Committee
   
35.85   Establishment
   
35.86   Members
   
35.87   Terms
   
35.88   Election of officers; quorum
   
35.89   Power and duties
PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The City Council shall establish a Park and Recreation Board by appointing a
five-member Board. Members appointed to the Board must live within ten miles of
the center of the City of Sweeny.
(Ord. 102-94, passed 10-19-93; Am. Ord. 100-22, passed 2-15-22; Am. Ord. 24-
104, passed 7-23-24)
§ 35.02 MEMBERS; TERMS.
   Of the five members of the Park and Recreation Board, three members shall be
appointed in each even-numbered year and two members shall be appointed in each
odd-numbered year, within 30 days after each regular city election, to serve
terms of two years each.
(Ord. 102-94, passed 10-19-93; Am. Ord. 100-22, passed 2-15-22; Am. Ord. 24-
104, passed 7-23-24)
§ 35.03 ACTIVE PARTICIPATION REQUIRED.
   Active participation on the Park and Recreation Board is required. Any
member who is absent from three consecutive meetings of the Board without valid
excuse, as determined by the Board, shall automatically be dismissed from
membership. The Board shall, at once, notify the City Council that a vacancy
exists. Vacancies occurring in the Board, for whatever reason, shall be filled
within 30 days by appointment by the City Council for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
(Ord. 102-94, passed 10-19-93)
§ 35.04 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; PROCEDURE.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall elect annually one of its members as
Chairperson and shall establish its own rules of procedure. A quorum shall
consist of a majority of the members of the Board and an affirmative vote of a
majority of those present shall be necessary to pass upon pending questions.
The Chairperson shall be entitled to vote upon any question. Regular meetings
shall be held as determined by the Board. The meetings shall be open to the
public and a record of all proceedings shall be kept. The record shall be filed
with the City Secretary and shall be a public record.
(Ord. 102-94, passed 10-19-93)
§ 35.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall have the power and shall be required to:
   (A)   Draft and recommend to the City Council policies for use of all city
park facilities;
   (B)   Assist the city in processing all park grant reports, preparing forms,
obtaining proposals, conducting park planning, supervising construction and
researching and securing matching funds;
   (C)   Make reports of its activities and recommendations to the City
Council; and
   (D)   Perform other duties and be vested with other powers as the City
Council may, from time to time, authorize.
(Ord. 102-94, passed 10-19-93; Am. Ord. 100-22, passed 2-15-22)
§ 35.06 REPRESENTATIVE; APPOINTMENT.
   The City Council shall appoint a representative to attend the meetings of
the Park and Recreation Board and serve as liaison between the Park Board and
the City Council.
(Ord. 102-94, passed 10-19-93)
RESERVE POLICE FORCE
§ 35.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a special police force for the city to be known
as the Police Reserve Force.
(Ord. 203, passed 4-2-74)
§ 35.36 COMPOSITION; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Police Reserve Force shall consist of a maximum number of persons as
determined by the Chief of Police of the city. Each member of the Police
Reserve Force shall be at least 21 years of age and shall be a resident citizen
of the city. The membership of the Police Reserve Force shall be appointed by
the Chief of Police and shall serve under his or her direction and supervision.
The Chief of Police shall have the right to remove the reserve police officers
from office and he or she shall appoint new members to the Force as vacancies
occur.
(Ord. 203, passed 4-2-74)
§ 35.37 APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP.
   Any person desiring to make application for membership shall be required to
make application on a form prescribed by the Chief of Police before being
considered for membership in the Police Reserve Force. All questions contained
in the application shall be truthfully answered by the applicant and, should
the applicant fail to answer the information in the application truthfully,
then, in that event, the applicant shall not be considered for membership in
the Police Reserve Force.
(Ord. 203, passed 4-2-74)
§ 35.38 MINIMUM PHYSICAL, MENTAL AND SIMILAR REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons appointed by the Chief of Police to the Police Reserve Force
shall meet the minimum physical, mental, educational, moral and training
standards established by the Commission on Law Enforcement Officers’ Standards
and Education; provided, however, that any person serving as an auxiliary
police officer of the city on or before August 30, 1971, may be appointed to
serve as a police reserve officer without fulfilling the minimum training
standards established by the Commission on Law Enforcement Officers’ Standards
and Education. In no case shall any person serve as a police reserve officer
after January 1, 1973, unless he or she has fulfilled the minimum physical,
mental, educational, moral and training standards established by the Commission
on Law Enforcement Officers’ Standards and Education.
(Ord. 203, passed 4-2-74)
§ 35.39 UNIFORMS.
   The city will provide uniforms for the members of the Police Reserve Force
which shall consist of trousers, shirt, cap and badge and which the uniforms
are to be returned to the Chief of Police when the person ceases to function as
a police reserve officer. The uniforms shall be worn at all times when on duty
unless otherwise directed by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 203, passed 4-2-74)
§ 35.40 ACTION; POWERS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Members of the Police Reserve Force of the city shall act only upon
the request and under the direction of the Chief of Police of the city, and
when on duty they shall have all powers of other members of the Police
Department of the city, including the power to make arrests. However, no person
appointed to the Police Reserve Force may carry a weapon or otherwise act as a
peace officer until he or she has been approved by the City Council.
   (B)   After approval, he or she may carry a weapon only when authorized by
the Chief of Police and when discharging official duties as a duly constituted
peace officer.
(Ord. 203, passed 4-2-74)
§ 35.41 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Police Reserve Force shall receive regular patrol person’s
pay when ordered to active duty by the Chief of Police or during periods of
emergency. There will be no remuneration for their tour of training or for
services voluntarily performed.
(Ord. 203, passed 4-2-74)
FIRE HAZARD INSPECTION COMMITTEE
§ 35.55 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The City Council hereby forms a committee to be known as the Fire
Hazard Inspection Committee of the city.
   (B)   The Committee shall be composed of the Building Inspector of the city,
the Fire Marshal, the Fire Chief of the Fire Department and the Health Officer
of the city.
(Ord. 119A, passed 3-17-64; Am. Ord. 154, passed 9-5-67)
§ 35.56 MEMBERS SWORN IN.
   Before entering upon the performance of the duties imposed upon the
Committee, the members of the Committee shall be duly sworn in the manner
provided by the Constitution of the state by the Mayor of the city.
(Ord. 119A, passed 3-17-64; Am. Ord. 154, passed 9-5-67)
§ 35.57 POWERS AND DUTIES; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Fire Hazard Inspection Committee shall have and perform the duty
and responsibility of investigating and reporting to the City Council, in
writing, the conditions of buildings situated within the city, as defined by
the
Chapter 94 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The written report shall contain the following:
      (1)   The legal description of the land upon which the structure reported
upon is situated;
      (2)   The name of the owner or other, if known, together with their
mailing address;
      (3)   The type of construction of the structure;
      (4)   The contents of the structure, if any;
      (5)   Whether or not the structure is occupied;
      (6)   The general condition of the structure with reference to fire
hazard and health hazard;
      (7)   The visible dangers of fire to the structure, if any;
      (8)   The visible dangers to public health of the structure, if any;
      (9)   The condition of the structure in reference to its state of repair;
      (10)   The location of the structure with reference to other buildings;
      (11)   The condition of the wiring of the structure, if any;
      (12)   The exit and entrance locations in the structure;
      (13)   The approximate area of the structure;
      (14)   Whether or not the structure can be repaired without substantial
reconstruction of the structure;
      (15)   All fires known to have originated in the structure, their dates
and times, if any;
      (16)   The use to which the structure has heretofore been put, if any;
      (17)   The state of repair of sanitary facilities in the structure, if
any; and
      (18)   Any other information or condition of the structure concerning the
danger of fire or danger to public health.
   (C)   The Committee shall make a monthly report of its findings and
recommendations, in writing, to the City Council.
(Ord. 119A, passed 3-17-64; Am. Ord. 154, passed 9-5-67)
§ 35.58 REPORTS AND PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   After the report of the Fire Hazard Inspection Committee has been
filed with the City Council, the City Council shall consider the same at its
next regular meeting of the City Council, and if, after considering the report
and recommendation of the Fire Hazard Inspection Committee at the regular
meeting, the City Council is of the opinion that the report and recommendations
justify a public hearing, a public hearing shall be ordered by the City Council
and shall be held at a regular or special meeting of the City Council on a date
not less than ten nor more than 30 days from the date of the order for a public
hearing at the City Hall of the city, at 7 p.m., at which time and place all
persons interested in the structure being considered shall have an opportunity
to appear and be heard and present evidence and witnesses on their behalf.
   (B)   At least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing, the City Secretary
shall cause a notice of the hearing, together with a copy of the report of the
Fire Hazard Inspection Committee, to be mailed by Registered Mail, return
receipt requested, to the owner or owners of the structure involved, properly
addressed to the last undress of the owner of the premises shown on the tax
rolls of the city, giving notice of the time, place and nature of the hearing.
   (C)   The public hearing may be adjourned from time to time or from day to
day until the hearing shall have been completed.
   (D)   If, after the closing of the hearing, the City Council, based upon the
evidence presented at the hearing, is of the opinion that the structure
involved is a serious fire hazard to life and property, or is a serious hazard
to health or both, or that corrective measures may be taken to remove the
dangerous conditions aforesaid and render the structure safe without the
necessity of a substantial reconstruction of the structure, the City Council
may order the owner of the structure to correct the dangerous conditions,
specifying the measures to be taken to render the structure safe; and give the
owner thereof a reasonable time of 60 days within which to take and complete
the corrective measures. In the event, the owner shall commence repairs of the
structure within ten days from the date of the order ordering the repairs and
at least ten days prior to the expiration of the 60-day period determines that
the 60-day time is insufficient to allow the completion of the repairs, the
owner may make application to the City Council to extend the period of time to
complete the repairs to an additional 60 days. In connection with the aforesaid
extension of time, the owner or owners shall have the burden to show to the
City Council that they have used reasonable diligence to complete the repairs
requested within the 60-day period. If, however, after the closing of the
hearing, the City Council finds that building is a serious fire hazard or
serious health hazard and cannot be corrected as stated above, the City Council
may declare the building to be a nuisance and order its demolition, giving the
owner 60 days within which to cause the structure to be removed from the
premises involved.
   (E)   In the event that the owner or owners of the building fail to comply
with the order of the City Council within the time specified or the extension
of time as authorized by the City Council, then in that event, the City
Attorney is hereby ordered and directed to file a suit in a court of competent
jurisdiction against the owners to obtain the necessary orders and processes of
the court to enforce the orders of the City Council.
   (F)   In the event that the owner or owners of the structure shall fail and
refuse to take the corrective measures ordered by the City Council to remove
the dangerous conditions to render the structure safe, as herein provided,
then, in such event, the City Attorney is directed and ordered to bring suit in
a court of competent jurisdiction to cause the structure to be demolished or
removed from the premises.
(Ord. 119A, passed 3-17-64; Am. Ord. 154, passed 9-5-67)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.70 CHIEF OF POLICE; OFFICERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Chief of Police of the City of
Sweeny. The Chief of Police shall head the city Police Department and perform
the duties of that position and perform such other duties as determined by the
City Manager.
   (B)   The city shall employ such number of duly licensed police officers as
determined by the Chief of Police and City Manager, and in accordance with the
budget adopted by the City Council. All police officers shall be paid in
accordance with the salary scale duly adopted by the city.
   (C)   The Chief of Police and all police officers employed by the city,
before entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall take an oath of
office as required by law and post such bond for the faithful performance of
their duties, as required by law.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the City Manager, but only
after consultation with the City Council.
(Ord. 34, passed 1-19-49; Am. Ord. 106-10, passed 7-20-10)
Cross-reference:
   Reserve Police Force, see §§
35.35 through
35.41
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT COMMITTEE
§ 35.85 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The City Council hereby establishes a Capital Improvement Committee within
the city which shall have the power to recommend to the City Council the
specific capital improvement projects on which the funds identified in Ord. 25-
113, and including other funds identified or designated by the city for capital
improvements, shall be prioritized for construction and completion.
(Ord. 25-113, passed 9-30-25)
§ 35.86 MEMBERS.
   The Capital Improvement Committee shall consist of seven members. Five of
the members will be citizen members who shall either reside in the city, or own
property subject to taxation by the city and who will serve without
compensation. Two of the members of the Capital Improvement Committee shall be
City Council persons. The City Manager and City Public Works Director shall
serve as advisory members of the Committee.
(Ord. 25-113, passed 9-30-25)
§ 35.87 TERMS.
   The five citizen members of the Capital Improvement Committee, shall be
appointed by the City Council for two year terms. Three of the citizen members
shall be appointed in odd-numbered years and two of the citizen members shall
be appointed in even-numbered years. The appointments shall be made by the City
Council in October of each year. Any member may be removed from Committee
membership by the City Council at will. The two City Council members shall be
appointed to the Committee in October of each year.
(Ord. 25-113, passed 9-30-25)
§ 35.88 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; QUORUM.
   The Capital Improvement Committee shall elect a Chairman and Secretary
annually in October after new members are appointed by the City Council. A
quorum shall consist of four members. An affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum shall be necessary to pass on any question. Meetings shall be held as
needed and all meetings shall be subject to the Open Meetings Act. A record of
all proceedings shall be kept and filed with the person performing the duties
of secretary.
(Ord. 25-113, passed 9-30-25)
§ 35.89 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Capital Improvement Committee shall serve in an advisory capacity. The
Committee shall advise and assist the city in any proposed capital expenditures
for streets, drainage and parks and make
recommendations to the City Council of those projects it determines will be
best for the city. The City Manager and City Public Works Director shall assist
the Capital Improvement Committee with any information or data necessary for
the Committee to make its recommendations to the City Council. Any
recommendations from the Capital Improvement Committee shall be forwarded to
the City Council which shall make all final decisions regarding capital
improvements.
(Ord. 25-113, passed 9-30-25)
CHAPTER 36: EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
Section
   
36.01   Emergency Management Director; powers and duties
   
36.02   Emergency Management Council; authority
   
36.03   Organization; composition
   
36.04   Unauthorized operation of siren and the like
   
36.05   Conflict
   
36.06   Exercise of governmental functions
   
36.07   Expending public funds
   
36.08   Obstruction or hindrance of organization
   
36.09   Support and defense
§ 36.01 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   There exists the Office of Emergency Management Director of the
city, which shall be held by the Mayor in accordance with state law.
      (2)   An Emergency Management Coordinator may be appointed by and serve
at the pleasure of the Director.
      (3)   The Director shall be responsible for conducting a program of
comprehensive emergency management within the city and for carrying out the
duties and responsibilities set forth in division (C) below. He or she may
delegate authority for execution of these duties to the Coordinator, but
ultimate responsibility for the execution shall remain with the Director.
   (B)   (1)   The powers and duties of the Director shall include an on-going
survey of actual or potential major hazards which threaten life and property
within the city; and an on-going program of identifying and requiring or
recommending the implementation of measures which would tend to prevent the
occurrence or reduce the impact of the hazards if a disaster did occur. As part
of his or her responsibility in hazard mitigation, the Director shall supervise
the development of an emergency management plan for the city and shall
recommend that plan for adoption by the City Council along with any and all
mutual aid plans and agreements which are deemed essential for the
implementation of the emergency management plan.
      (2)   The powers of the Director shall include the authority to declare a
“state of disaster,” but the action may be subject to confirmation by the City
Council at its next meeting. The duties of the Director shall also include the
causing of a survey of the availability of existing personnel, equipment,
supplied and services which could be used during a disaster, as provided for
herein, as well as a continuing study of the need for amendments and
improvements in the emergency management plan.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Emergency Management Director
shall include the following:
      (1)   The direction and control of the actual disaster operations of the
emergency management organization as well as the training of emergency
management personnel;
      (2)   The determination of all questions of authority and responsibility
that may arise within the emergency management organization of the city;
      (3)   The maintenance of necessary liaison with other municipal, county,
district, state, regional, federal or other emergency management organization;
      (4)   The marshaling, after declaration of a disaster as provided for
above, of all necessary personnel, equipment or supplied from any department of
the city to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the emergency
management plan;
      (5)   The issuance of all necessary proclamations as to the existence of
a disaster and the immediate operational effectiveness of the city emergency
management plan;
      (6)   The issuance of reasonable rules, regulations or directives which
are necessary for the protection of life and property in the city; (The rules
and regulations shall be filed in the office of the City Secretary and shall
receive widespread publicity unless publicity would be of aid and comfort to
the enemy.)
      (7)   The supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid
agreements, in cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other
local political subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if
deemed desirable, of an agreement with the county in which the city is located
and with other municipalities within the county, for the county-wide
coordination of emergency management efforts;
      (8)   The supervision of, and final authorization for the procurement of
all necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private
contribution which may be offered for the purpose of improving emergency
management within the city; and
      (9)   The authorizing of agreements, after approval by the City Attorney,
for use of private property for public shelter and other purposes.
(Ord. 317, passed 3-1-83)
§ 36.02 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COUNCIL; AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to join with the County Judge and the mayors
of the other cities in the county in the formation of an Emergency Management
Council for the county and shall have the authority to cooperate in the
preparation of a joint emergency management plan and in the appointment of a
joint Emergency Management Coordinator, as well as all persons necessary to
participate in a county-wide program of emergency management insofar as the
program may affect the city.
(Ord. 317, passed 3-1-83)
§ 36.03 ORGANIZATION; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The operational emergency management organization of the city shall
consist of the officers and employees of the city so designated by the Director
in the emergency management plan, as well as all organized volunteer groups.
   (B)   The functions and duties of the organization shall be distributed
among the officers and employees in accordance with the terms of the emergency
management plan.
   (C)   The plan shall set forth the form of the organization, establish and
designate divisions and functions, assign tasks, duties and powers and
designate officers and employees to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
Insofar as possible, the form of organization, titles and terminology shall
conform to the recommendations of the State Division of Emergency Management
and of the Federal Government.
(Ord. 317, passed 3-1-83)
§ 36.04 UNAUTHORIZED OPERATION OF SIREN AND THE LIKE.
   Any unauthorized person who shall operate a siren or other device so as to
simulate a warning signal or the termination of a warning shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the penalties
imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. 317, passed 3-1-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 36.05 CONFLICT.
   (A)   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and
promulgated pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede
and override all existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as
the latter may be inconsistent therewith.
   (B)   This chapter shall not be construed so as to conflict with any state
of federal statute or with any military or naval order, rule or regulation.
(Ord. 317, passed 3-1-83)
§ 36.06 EXERCISE OF GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTIONS.
   This chapter is an exercise by the city of its governmental functions for
the protection of the public peace, health and safety and neither the city, the
agents and representatives of the city, nor any individual, receiver, firm,
partnership, corporation, association or trustee, nor any of the agents
thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to comply
with, any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to persons as the result
of the activity. Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises
who voluntarily and without compensation grants to the city a license of
privilege, or otherwise permits the city to inspect, designate and use the
whole or any part or parts of the real estate or premises for the purpose of
sheltering persons during an actual, impending or practice enemy attach shall,
together with his or her successors in interest, if any, not be civilly liable
for the death of, or injury to, any person on or about the real estate or
premises under the license, privilege or other permission or for loss of, or
damage to, the property of the person.
(Ord. 317, passed 3-1-83)
§ 36.07 EXPENDING PUBLIC FUNDS.
   No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city in
carrying out any emergency management activity authorized by this chapter
without prior approval by the City Council, nor shall any person have any right
to bind the city by contract, agreement or otherwise without prior and specific
approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 317, passed 3-1-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 36.08 OBSTRUCTION OR HINDRANCE OF ORGANIZATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder or delay
any member of the emergency management organization in the enforcement of any
rule or regulation issued pursuant to this chapter or to do any act forbidden
by any rule or regulation issued pursuant to the authority contained in this
chapter. It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or display
any emblem, insignia or any other means of identification as a member of the
emergency management organization of the city unless authority to do so has
been granted to the person by the proper officials.
(Ord. 317, passed 3-1-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 36.09 SUPPORT AND DEFENSE.
   Each employee or any individual that is assigned a function or
responsibility shall solemnly swear or affirm to support and defend the
Constitution of the United States, laws of the state and the ordinances of the
city.
(Ord. 317, passed 3-1-83)
CHAPTER 37: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Municipal Court Technology Fund
   
37.02   Municipal Court Building Security Fund
   
37.03   Fee on all debts and accounts receivable
   
37.04   Dishonored check penalty fee
Taxation
   
37.15   Exemption for persons over 65 or totally disabled
   
37.16   Taxable property rate
   
37.17   Telecommunications services; tax
   
37.18   General exemptions; last date
   
37.19   Delinquent taxes
   
37.20   Homestead exemption
   
37.21   Crime Control and Prevention District
Juvenile Case Manager Fee
   
37.30   Juvenile Case Manager Fee/Fund
   
37.31   Fee assessed
   
37.32   Fund purpose
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FUND.
   (A)   The City Council hereby creates the Municipal Court Technology Fund in
the city, which shall be used only for technological enhancements for the
Municipal Court of the city.
   (B)   (1)   A defendant convicted of a misdemeanor offense in the Municipal
Court shall pay a technology fee of $4 as a cost of court.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         PERSON CONVICTED. A person is considered CONVICTED if:
            1.   A sentence is imposed on the person;
            2.   The person is placed on community supervision, including
deferred adjudication community supervision; or
            3.   The court defers final disposition of the person’s case.
   (C)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall collect the costs described herein,
and promptly pay the funds to the proper officials of the city and all funds
collected under this section shall be deposited in a fund to be known as the
Municipal Court Technology Fund. The Municipal Court Technology Fund shall be
administered by or under the direction of the City Council. This Fund shall be
used only to finance the purchase of technological enhancements for the
Municipal Court, including:
      (1)   Computer systems;
      (2)   Computer networks;
      (3)   Computer hardware;
      (4)   Computer software;
      (5)   Imaging systems;
      (6)   Electronic kiosks;
      (7)   Electronic ticket writers; and
      (8)   Docket management systems.
(Ord. 107-99, passed 8-17-99)
§ 37.02 MUNICIPAL COURT BUILDING SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   The City Council hereby creates a Municipal Court Building Security
Fund which shall be used only for providing financing for items used for the
purpose of providing security services in the municipal court building.
   (B)   (1)   A defendant convicted of a misdemeanor offense in the Municipal
Court of the city shall pay a Building Security Fund fee in the amount required
by the city fee schedule.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         PERSON CONVICTED. A person is considered CONVICTED if:
            1.   A sentence is imposed on that person;
            2.   The person receives community supervision, including deferred
adjudication; or
            3.   The court defers final disposition of the person’s case.
   (C)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall collect the costs described herein,
and promptly pay the funds to the proper officials of the city and all funds
collected under this section shall be deposited in a fund to be known as the
Municipal Court Building Security Fund. The Municipal Court Building Security
Fund shall be administered by or under the direction of the City Council. This
Fund shall be used only to finance items used for the purpose of providing
security services for the municipal court building, as appropriate, including:
      (1)   The purchase or repair of X-ray machines and conveying systems;
      (2)   Handheld metal detectors;
      (3)   Walk-through metal detectors;
      (4)   Identification cards and systems;
      (5)   Electronic locking and surveillance systems;
      (6)   Bailiffs, deputy sheriffs, deputy constables, police offices or
contract security personnel during times when they are providing appropriate
security services;
      (7)   Signage;
      (8)   Confiscated weapon inventory and tracking systems;
      (9)   Locks, chains, alarms or similar security devices;
      (10)   The purchase or repair of bullet-proof glass; and
      (11)   Continuing education on security issues for court personnel and
security personnel.
(Ord. 104-01, passed 6-7-01; Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 37.03 FEE ON ALL DEBTS AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE.
   In accordance with Tex. Gov’t Code § 140.009, there shall be imposed an
additional fee of 30% on all debts and accounts receivable, including, but not
limited to fines, fees, restitution, other debts, and costs that are more than
60 days past due and have been referred to a private firm for collection.
(Ord. 106-13, passed 8-20-13)
§ 37.04 DISHONORED CHECK PENALTY FEE.
   Whenever any person pays to the city a fine, bill, tax, license or any
required fee by check or other similar instrument and such instrument is
returned from the bank or otherwise dishonored for any reason, a service charge
shall be assessed in the maximum amount permitted by Texas state law. At the
present time that amount is set by the city fee schedule, which said sum shall
be assessed each time a check is returned from the bank.
(Ord. 102-14, passed 12-17-13; Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
TAXATION
§ 37.15 EXEMPTION FOR PERSONS OVER 65 OR TOTALLY DISABLED.
   (A)   The homestead of any person who is 65 years of age or older which is
situated within the city limits shall be exempt from taxation by the city for
the first $25,000 of the appraised value thereof as determined by the county
and appraisal district. The homestead of any person who is totally disabled
which is situated within the city limits shall be exempt from taxation by the
city for the first $20,000 of the appraised value thereof as determined by the
county and appraisal district.
   (B)   For example, the home owner of the senior citizen aged 65 or older or
a disabled person has been appraised by the appraisal district at $70,000.
There shall be deducted from the appraised sum the amount of $25,000 for a
person over age 65 and the property shall be taxed at $45,000, or there shall
be deducted from the appraised sum the amount of $20,000 for a totally disabled
person, and the property shall be taxed at $50,000.
(Ord. 106-89, passed 9-19-87; Am. Ord. 109-13, passed 9-17-13)
§ 37.16 TAXABLE PROPERTY RATE.
   (A)   There shall be annually levied a tax on each $100 valuation of taxable
property, real, personal or mixed, situated within the incorporated city limits
for the purposes of:
      (1)   Current expenses of the city;
      (2)   Construction of or purchase of public buildings, water works,
sewers, other permanent improvements, streets; and
      (3)   To provide for the retirement of authorized bonded or warrant
indebtedness.
   (B)   The tax rate shall remain in full force and effect and shall be
collected annually until altered, changed or amended by statute of the state or
by ordinance of the City Council.
   (C)   It is hereby found and determined that the tax rate so established
will not create a surplus of funds beyond the need of the city for the purposes
enumerated.
   (D)   A sufficient amount of the funds will be applied to the tax
indebtedness of the city and the remainder will be applied to the General Fund
of the city.
   (E)   (1)   There is hereby established, and there shall be collected a tax
of $0.901224 on each $100 of evaluation on all taxable property situated within
the city limits, for the fiscal year 2025-2026; such tax shall be delinquent on
the first day of February, 2026, and shall thereafter be subject to the maximum
penalty and interest permitted by the laws of the State of Texas, including but
not limited to reasonable attorney's fees designated by the Tax Code of the
State of Texas. The rate established herein exceeds the no new revenue rate and
the voter approval rate but is not greater than the de minimis rate.
      (2)   Said tax so collected shall be apportioned as follows:
         (a)   The sum of $0.172801 shall be collected and utilized to pay the
principal, interest and sinking fund on the city 2011 Certificate of
Obligation, 2012 Certificate of Obligation, 2017 Certificate of Obligation, and
the 2019 Certificate of Obligation.
         (b)   The sum of $0.728423 of each sum so collected shall be
designated for the General Fund of the city to pay the maintenance and general
operations of the city.
      (3)   This tax rate will raise more taxes for maintenance and operations
than last year's tax rate.
      (4)   This tax rate will effectively be raised by 32.78% and will raise
taxes for maintenance and operations on a $100,000 home by approximately
$170.53.
(Am. Ord. 106-03, passed 9-16-03; Am. Ord. 25-109, passed 8-26-25)
§ 37.17 TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES; TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby authorized on all telecommunications services sold
within the city. For the purposes of this section, the sale of
telecommunications services is consummated at the location of the telephone or
other telecommunications device from which the call or other communication
originates. If the point of origin cannot be determined, the sale is
consummated at the address to which the call or other communication is billed.
   (B)   The application of the exemption, provided for in Tex. Tax Code, §
321.210(a), is hereby repealed by the city, as authorized by Tex. Tax Code, §
321.210(b) thereof.
   (C)   The rate of tax imposed by this section shall be the same as the rate
imposed by the city for all other local sales and use taxes as authorized by
the legislature of the state.
   (D)   The City Secretary shall forward to the Comptroller of the state by
United States Registered or Certified Mail a copy of this section along with a
copy of the minutes of the City Council’s vote and discussion on this section.
(Ord. 108-87, passed 8-18-87)
§ 37.18 GENERAL EXEMPTIONS; LAST DATE.
   (A)   Any qualified person, firm or corporation, desiring to file a claim
for exemption from ad valorem taxes of the city, in whole or in part, for any
calendar year, shall file the claim for exemption in writing with the Tax
Assessor/Collector at the City Hall on or before April 30 of the year.
   (B)   Should any person, firm or corporation fail to file the claim for
exemption on or before April 30 of the year, the person, firm or corporation
shall forfeit the right to claim exemption for the year and no exemption shall
be allowed.
(Ord. 264, passed 2-20-79)
§ 37.19 DELINQUENT TAXES.
   The City Council hereby adopts the provisions of Tex. Tax Code, Chapters 31
through 34, insofar as they are applicable to cities and towns, including, but
not limited to Tex. Tax Code, §§ 31.02, 31.03, 33.01, 33.03, 33.07, 33.08,
33.41, 33.42, 33.47, 33.53, 34.01, and all penalty, interest and attorney’s
fees provisions applicable to delinquent taxes.
(Am. Ord. 101-04A, passed 10-21-03)
§ 37.20 HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION.
   In addition to any other exemptions provided by state law or city ordinance,
the owner of a residential homestead who makes application for said exemption
shall be entitled to an exemption for the 2023 tax year and all future tax
years, unless revised by subsequent ordinance, from city ad valorem taxation of
an amount equal to 10% of the appraised value of the homestead.
(Ord. 23-105, passed 6-26-23)
§ 37.21 CRIME CONTROL AND PREVENTION DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to Proposition A, which was adopted at a special election on 5-6-
2023, there is hereby established a Crime Control and Prevention District,
comprising the City of Sweeny, and dedicated to crime reduction purposes. There
is here by adopted a sales and use tax for said district at a rate of 1/8 of
1%.
(Res. passed 5-16-2023)
JUVENILE CASE MANAGER FEE
§ 37.30 JUVENILE CASE MANAGER FEE/FUND.
   There is created a Juvenile Case Manager Fee, as set forth in the Tex. Crim.
Pro. Code, Art. 102.0174 (“Fee”).
(Ord. 110-08, passed 8-19-08)
§ 37.31 FEE ASSESSED.
   (A)   A defendant convicted of a “fine-only misdemeanor offense” in
Municipal Court shall pay a Juvenile Case Manager Fee of $5, as a court cost.
The Fee does not apply to parking citations. For purposes of this section, a
person is considered to be CONVICTED if:
      (1)   A sentence is imposed on the defendant by the Court; or
      (2)   The defendant receives deferred disposition from the Court,
including deferred proceedings under Tex. Crim. Pro. Code, Art. 45.052 or
45.053.
   (B)   The Municipal Court Judge is authorized to waive the Juvenile Case
Manager Fee in cases of demonstrated financial hardship on the part of a
convicted defendant. For example, the Municipal Court Judge may waive the Fee
if the Judge has determined that the defendant is: indigent; has insufficient
resources or income to pay the Fee; or, is otherwise unable to pay all or part
of the underlying fine or costs.
(Ord. 110-08, passed 8-19-08)
§ 37.32 FUND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall collect the Fee and pay it to the City
Treasurer to be kept in a separate fund known as the “Juvenile Case Manager
Fund.”
   (B)   The Fund may be used to finance the salary and benefits of a Juvenile
Case Manager that is employed by the Municipal Court under Tex. Crim. Pro.
Code, Art. 45.056.
   (C)   The Fund shall be administered by or under the direction of the City
Council.
   (D)   The Juvenile Case Manager Fee shall be charged to and applied only to
conduct that occurs on or after the adoption of this subchapter.
(Ord. 110-08, passed 8-19-08)
CHAPTER 38: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
38.01   Fee schedule
§ 38.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   From and after the passage of this section, the fees to be charged in the
City of Sweeny, Texas, for the issuance of administrative fees, zoning fees,
animal control fees, building rental fees, trash bag fees, all city permit
fees, culvert installation fees, police department fees, and utility fees, are
established in accordance with the City of Sweeny fee schedule attached to Ord.
25-102, as amended, and incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
(Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21; Am. Ord. 25-102, passed 2-18-25)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
         
51.   GARBAGE
         
52.   DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
         
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Reserved
   
50.02   Deposit of funds
Complaint Procedure; Administration
   
50.15   Director of Public Works to hear complaints
   
50.16   Filing of complaint
   
50.17   Complaint hearing
Cross-reference:
   Utility service rates, see §
38.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 RESERVED.
§ 50.02 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   In addition to any current requirement of a deposit to secure utility
service for the city from and after the passage of this section, any commercial
or residential user of any of the utility services of the city, who defaults in
the payment of one or more utility billings of the city, beyond the date or
dates established for cutting off the particular utility service, shall, before
the utility service is reconnected and service restored, pay all past due
delinquencies, penalties and costs of collection, if any, and deposit with the
city, a deposit equal to double the largest billings of the utilities during
the immediate service year or part thereof, preceding the date of default.
   (B)   All utility service bills for the utility service from the city shall
bear interest at the rate or 10% per annum following the date the utility
billing is due and payable.
   (C)   In the event that any customer fails to pay the utility billing when
due, such customer shall be liable for all costs and fees of collection which
are reasonable and necessary as a result of the default.
(Ord. 111-95, passed 5-16-95)
COMPLAINT PROCEDURE; ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.15 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS TO HEAR COMPLAINTS.
   The Director of Public Works of the city or his or her designee is hereby
nominated, constituted and appointed as the person to hear the complaints of
citizens, persons, firms or corporations concerning the public utilities and
garbage collection service.
(Ord. 258, passed 7-5-78)
§ 50.16 FILING OF COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or citizen of the city, who has a
complaint concerning the public utilities owned by the city or concerning the
garbage service provided by the city may either in person or by written
complaint file the complaint with the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee. If the complaint is filed in person, the complaint shall be reduced
to writing and shall be filed with the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
   (B)   After the filing of the complaint, it shall be the duty of the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee to investigate the complaint
and report his or her findings and his or her decision concerning the complaint
in writing to the person, firm or corporation filing the complaint within six
days.
   (C)   In the event that the complaint does not concern a delinquent bill
which has resulted in an order to disconnect service, and in the event that the
complaining person, firm or corporation is not satisfied with the decision of
the Director of Public Works or his or her designee, then in the event the
complaining party may appeal the complaint to the City Council within 30 days
from the date of the decision and findings of the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee. The decision of the City Council shall be final; provided,
however, the complaining person, firm or corporation shall have the right to
appeal the decision of the City Council to any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   In the event that the city shall determine to disconnect service of
the public utility because of non-payment of bill for the service or shall
determine not to provide the garbage service because of the non-payment of the
bill for the service, then in that event, the Director of Public Works or his
or her designee, shall, before disconnecting the service, give written notice
to the person, firm or corporation in default of the payment of the bill,
either in person, or by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the
person, firm or corporation is in truth and fact delinquent, the amount of the
delinquency, and that unless the person, firm or corporation in default
notifies the Director of Public Works or his or her designee in writing that
the person, firm or corporation desires to be heard by the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee on the question of amount of the default, or the
default in payment of the bill, the city will discontinue service to the
person, firm or corporation within days.
(Ord. 258, passed 7-5-78)
§ 50.17 COMPLAINT HEARING.
   (A)   In the event that the person, firm or corporation in default in the
payment of the bill, or claimed to be in default in the payment of the bill for
the service notifies the Director of Public Works or his or her designee that
the person, firm or corporation alleged to be in default desires to appear and
be heard on the matter of the bill or the discontinuance of the service, then
in that event, the Director of Public Works or his or her designee, shall
forthwith, within five days, proceed to hear the complaint and reasons if any,
for the default, if any.
   (B)   After hearing the evidence, the Director of Public Works shall
investigate the complaint or the problem concerning the default and shall,
within three days following the hearing, report his or her findings to the
person, firm or corporation alleged to be delinquent. If the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee determines that billing of the city is fully due
and owing, then, in such event, he or she shall notify the person, firm or
corporation alleged to be in default in writing that he or she so finds the
bill due and owing and that the service will be discontinued within three days
following the last mentioned written notice unless the person, firm or
corporation alleged to be in default deposits the amount of the bill then due
with the Treasurer of the city under protest and notifies the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee that the person, firm or corporation
desires to appeal the decision of the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee to the City Council at the next regular meeting of the City Council to
be held at the City Hall of the city.
   (C)   The decision of the City Council shall be final and binding, but the
person, firm or corporation alleged to be in default in the payment of the bill
may appeal the decision of the City Council to any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 258, passed 7-5-78)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Separation of brush from heavy trash pickup
   
51.02   Containers
§ 51.01 SEPARATION OF BRUSH FROM HEAVY TRASH PICKUP.
   (A)   The City Council finds that environmental regulations and increased
efficiency make it necessary for the city to require a separation of various
kinds of trash in the heavy trash pickup program.
   (B)   Citizens of the city who desire to participate in the heavy trash
pickup program of the city shall separate their heavy trash so that brush,
which includes trees, tree trimmings, limbs, sticks and other related
materials, shall be placed near the curb into a separate stack from the heavy
trash which is not brush.
(Ord. 115-93, passed 9-21-93)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.02 CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning, managing,
operating, leasing or renting any premises or any place where kitchen garbage
accumulates or any residence to fail to provide and place the garbage in a
disposable container made of plastic, paper or other disposable material of
sufficient strength so as to hold the contents without tearing or breaking and
so as not to otherwise break or come apart under exposure to rain, windstorm,
freezing temperatures or other adverse weather conditions. No garbage container
shall exceed a gross weight of 50 pounds when filled. Trash, rubbish, leaves or
grass clippings shall also be placed in the disposable containers. If non-
disposable containers (metal, hard plastic or any other type of garbage cans)
are used to place the disposable containers at curb side, such containers must
be removed from curb side within 24 hours following scheduled garbage pickup.
Any person, firm or corporation who violates this provision shall be issued a
citation and subject the offender to the general penalties provided by this
code of ordinances and shall also be subject to the confiscation of the non-
disposable container or both such fine and confiscation.
(Ord. 261, passed 10-3-78; Am. Ord. 105-10, passed 6-15-10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 52: DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
Section
   
52.01   Declaration of policy, purpose and intent
   
52.02   Public involvement
   
52.03   Public education
   
52.04   Coordination with regional water planning groups
   
52.05   Authorization
   
52.06   Application
   
52.07   Definitions
   
52.08   Criteria for initiation and termination of response stages
   
52.09   Drought response stages
   
52.10   Enforcement
   
52.11   Variances
§ 52.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   In order to conserve the available water supply and protect the
integrity of water supply facilities, with particular regard for domestic water
use, sanitation, and fire protection, and to protect and preserve public
health, welfare, and safety and minimize the adverse impacts of water supply
shortage or other water supply emergency conditions, the city hereby adopts the
following regulations and restrictions on the delivery and consumption of
water.
   (B)   Water uses regulated or prohibited under this plan are considered to
be non-essential and continuation of such uses during times of water shortage
or other emergency water supply conditions are deemed to constitute a waste of
water which subjects the offender(s) to penalties as defined in § 52.10.
(Ord. 24-103, passed 6-18-24)
§ 52.02 PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT.
   Opportunity for the public to provide input into the preparation of the plan
was provided by the city by means of scheduling and providing public notice of
a public meeting to accept input on the plan.
(Ord. 24-103, passed 6-18-24)
§ 52.03 PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The city will periodically provide the public with information about the
plan, including information about the conditions under which each stage of the
plan is to be initiated or terminated and the drought response measures to be
implemented in each stage. This information will be provided by means of news
media, social media, radio broadcasts on local radio stations, local
newspapers, telephone calls, person to person conversations, and notices mailed
to all utility customers.
(Ord. 24-103, passed 6-18-24)
§ 52.04 COORDINATION WITH REGIONAL WATER PLANNING GROUPS.
   The service area of the city is located within the Region (H) and the city
has provided a copy of this plan to the Region H.
(Ord. 24-103, passed 6-18-24)
§ 52.05 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Mayor, or his or her designee is hereby authorized and directed to
implement the applicable provisions of this plan upon determination that such
implementation is necessary to protect public health, safety, and welfare. The
Mayor or his or her designee shall have the authority to initiate or terminate
drought or other water supply emergency response measures as described in this
plan.
(Ord. 24-103, passed 6-18-24)
§ 52.06 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this plan shall apply to all persons, customers, and
property utilizing water provided by the city. The terms PERSON and CUSTOMER as
used in the plan include individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
and all other legal entities.
(Ord. 24-103, passed 6-18-24)
§ 52.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this plan, the following definitions shall apply.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE. Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such as
fountains, reflecting pools, and water gardens.
   COMMERCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE. Water use which is integral to the
operations of commercial and non-profit establishments and governmental
entities such as retail establishments, hotels and motels, restaurants, and
office buildings.
   CONSERVATION. Those practices, techniques, and technologies that reduce the
consumption of water, reduce the loss or waste of water, improve the efficiency
in the use of water or increase the recycling and reuse of water so that a
supply is conserved and made available for future or alternative uses.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, company, or organization using water supplied by the
city.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE. Water use for personal needs or for household or
sanitary purposes such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation, or
for cleaning a residence, business, industry, or institution.
   EVEN NUMBER ADDRESS. Street addresses, box numbers, or rural postal route
numbers ending in 0, 2, 4, 6, or 8 and locations without addresses.
   FOUNDATION WATERING. An application of water to the soils directly abutting
(within two feet) the foundation of a building, structure.
   INDUSTRIAL WATER USE. The use of water in processes designed to convert
materials of lower value into forms having greater usability and value.
   LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION USE. Water used for the irrigation and maintenance of
landscaped areas, whether publicly or privately owned, including residential
and commercial lawns, gardens, golf courses, parks, and rights-of-way and
medians.
   NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Water uses that are not essential nor required for
the protection of public, health, safety, and welfare, including:
      (1)   Irrigation of landscape areas, including parks, athletic fields,
and golf courses, except otherwise provided under this plan;
      (2)   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat, trailer,
airplane or other vehicle;
      (3)   Use of water to wash down any sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts, or other hard-surfaced areas;
      (4)   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for purposes
other than immediate fire protection;
      (5)   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in any
gutter or street;
      (6)   Use of water to fill, refill, or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools or Jacuzzi-type pools;
      (7)   Use of water in a fountain or pond for aesthetic or scenic purposes
except where necessary to support aquatic life;
      (8)   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a reasonable period
after having been given notice directing the repair of such leak(s); and
      (9)   Use of water from hydrants for construction purposes or any other
purposes other than firefighting.
   ODD NUMBERED ADDRESS. Street addresses, box numbers, or rural postal route
numbers ending in l, 3, 5, 7, or 9.
(Ord. 24-103, passed 6-18-24)
§ 52.08 CRITERIA FOR INITIATION AND TERMINATION OF DROUGHT RESPONSE STAGES.
   (A)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall monitor water supply and/or
demand conditions on a daily basis and shall determine when conditions warrant
initiation or termination of each stage of the plan, that is, when the
specified “triggers” are reached.
   (B)   The triggering criteria described below are based on daily consumption
in relation to the total water production capacity of the wells in service at
any time or in relation to the total firm high service (booster) pump capacity
in the system. The well capacity shall mean the rate of production from all
wells over a 24-hour period and the total firm booster pump capacity shall mean
the total volume of water that can be pumped in a 24-hour period assuming the
largest pump is out of service. The city has a master water meter on each well,
which monitors the total daily water demand.
   (C)   Utilization of alternative water sources and/or alternative delivery
mechanisms. There are no alternative water source(s) available to the city.
   (D)   Stages.
      (1)   Stage 1 triggers; mild water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be requested to
voluntarily conserve water and adhere to the prescribed restrictions on certain
water uses, defined in §
52.07, when total daily water demand equals or exceeds 40% of the total well
capacity or firm booster pump capacity for seven consecutive days.
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 1 of the plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of seven consecutive days.
      (2)   Stage 2 triggers; moderate water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain nonessential water
uses provided in §
52.09 of this plan when total daily water demand equals or exceeds 50% of the
total well capacity or firm booster pump capacity for seven consecutive days.
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 2 of the plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of seven consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 2,
Stage 1, or the applicable drought response stage based on the triggering
criteria, becomes operative.
      (3)   Stage 3 triggers; severe water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain nonessential water
uses for Stage 3 of this plan when total daily water demand equals or exceeds
60% of the total well capacity or firm booster pump capacity for three
consecutive days.
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 3 of the plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of three consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 3,
Stage 2, or the applicable drought response stage based on the triggering
criteria, becomes operative.
      (4)   Stage 4 triggers; critical water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain nonessential water
uses for Stage 4 of this plan when total daily water demand equals or exceeds
70% of the total well capacity or firm booster pump capacity for three
consecutive days.
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 4 of the plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of three consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 4,
Stage 3, or the applicable drought response stage based on the triggering
criteria, becomes operative.
      (5)   Stage 5 triggers; emergency water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions for Stage 5 of this plan when the
Mayor, or his or her designee, determines that a water supply emergency exists
based on:
            1.   Major water line breaks, or pump or system failures occur,
which cause unprecedented loss of capability to provide water service; or
            2.   Natural or man-made contamination of the water supply source
(s).
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 5 of the plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of three consecutive days.
(Ord. 24-103, passed 6-18-24)
§ 52.09 DROUGHT RESPONSE STAGES.
   (A)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, shall monitor water supply and/or
demand conditions on a daily basis and, in accordance with the triggering
criteria set forth in §
52.08, shall determine that a mild, moderate, severe, critical, emergency or
water shortage condition exists and shall implement the following notification
procedures:
   (B)   Notification.
      (1)   Notification of the public. The Mayor or his or her designee shall
notify the public by means of: news media, social media, radio broadcasts on
local radio station, local newspapers, telephone calls, posting notices at
public buildings, and person to person conversations. Notices mailed to all
utility customers may be used at the discretion of the Mayor or his or her
designee.
      (2)   Additional notification. The Mayor or his or her designee shall
notify directly, or cause to be notified directly, the following individuals
and entities:
 
Entity                              Notification Stage
City Council                        All stages
TCEQ                                All stages
Street Superintendent               Stage 4: Critical
                                    Stage 5: Emergency
Water and Wastewater Superintendent All stages
Fire Chief                          All stages
Major water uses                    Stage 5: Emergency
 
   (C)   Stages.
      (1)   Stage 1 response; mild water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Target. Achieve a voluntary reduction in the total well capacity
or firm booster pump capacity to less than 40%.
         (b)   Best management practices for supply management. The city will
reduce water demand by system water loss control and reduced or discontinued
irrigation of public landscaped areas.
         (c)   Voluntary water use restrictions for reducing demand.
            1.   Water customers are requested to voluntarily limit the
irrigation of landscaped areas to between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
            2.   All operations of the city shall adhere to water use
restrictions prescribed for Stage 1 of the plan.
            3.   Water customers are requested to practice water conservation
and to minimize or discontinue water use for non-essential purposes.
      (2)   Stage 2 response; moderate water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Target. Achieve a voluntary in the total well capacity or firm
booster pump capacity to less than 50%.
         (b)   Best management practices for supply management. The city will
reduce water demand by system water loss control and reduced or discontinued
irrigation of public landscaped areas.
         (c)   Water use restrictions for demand reduction. Under threat of
penalty for violation, the following water use restrictions shall apply to all
persons.
            1.   Irrigation of landscaped areas with hose-end sprinklers or
automatic irrigation systems shall be limited to Monday, Wednesday, and Friday
for customers located west of Hackberry Street, and Tuesday, Thursday, and
Saturdays for water customers located east of Hackberry Street and no one shall
water between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Sundays. However,
irrigation of landscaped areas is permitted on a daily basis by means of a
hand-held hose, a faucet filled bucket or watering can of five gallons or less,
or drip irrigation system before 8:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m.
            2.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle is prohibited except on designated watering
days between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m.
and 12:00 midnight. Such washing, when allowed, shall be done with a hand-held
bucket or a hand-held hose equipped with a positive shutoff nozzle for quick
rises. Vehicle washing may be done at any time on the immediate premises of a
commercial car wash or commercial service station. Further, such washing may be
exempted from these regulations if the health, safety, and welfare of the
public is contingent upon frequent vehicle cleansing, such as garbage trucks
and vehicles used to transport food and perishables.
            3.   Use of water to fill, refill, or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools, wading pools, or Jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited except on
designated watering days between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. and
between 8:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight.
            4.   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a recirculation system.
            5.   Use of water from hydrants shall be limited to firefighting,
related activities, or other activities necessary to maintain public health,
safety, and welfare, except that use of water from designated fire hydrants for
construction purposes may be allowed under special permit from the city.
            6.   Use of water for the irrigation of golf course greens, tees,
and fairways is prohibited except on designated watering days between the hours
12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight.
However, if the golf course utilizes a water source other than that provided by
the city, the facility shall not be subject to these regulations.
            7.   All restaurants are prohibited from serving water to patrons
except upon request of the patron.
            8.   The following uses of water are defined as non-essential and
are prohibited:
               a.   Wash down of any sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking
lots, tennis courts, or other hard-surfaced areas;
               b.   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for
purposes other than immediate fire protection;
               c.   Use of water for dust control;
               d.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate
in any gutter or street; and
               e.   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a
reasonable period after having been given notice directing the repair of such
leak(s).
      (3)   Stage 3 response; severe water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Target. Achieve a voluntary reduction in the total well capacity
or firm booster pump capacity to less than 60%.
         (b)   Best management practices for supply management. The city will
reduce water demand by system water loss control and reduced or discontinued
irrigation of public landscaped areas.
         (c)   Water use restrictions for demand reduction. All requirements of
Stage 2 shall remain in effect during Stage 3 except:
            1.   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be further limited to a
designated watering day.
               a.   NW: Customers located north of 4th Street and Brockman and
west of Hackberry Street shall water on Mondays.
               b.   SE: Customers located south of 4th Street and Brockman and
east of Hackberry Street shall water on Tuesdays.
               c.   NE: Customers located north of 4th Street and Brockman and
east of Hackberry Street shall water on Thursdays.
               d.   SW: Customers located south of 4th Street and Brockman and
west of Hackberry Street shall water on Fridays.
            2.   No one may water on Wednesdays, Saturdays, or Sundays. No one
may water on any assigned day between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Hand
watering flowers, flowerbeds, and potted plants may be done on any day before
8:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m. Watering shall be done by means of hand-held
hoses, hand-held buckets, drip irrigation, or permanently installed automatic
sprinkler system only. The use of hose-end sprinklers is prohibited at all
times.
            3.   The watering of golf course tees is prohibited unless the golf
course utilizes a water source other than that provided by the city.
            4.   The use of water for construction purposes from designated
fire hydrants under special permit is to be discontinued.
            5.   Foundation watering (within two feet) may take place on the
assigned water day only. Watering of trees may occur for two hours one day per
week with a handheld hose or with a dedicated zone using a drip irrigation
system and/or soaker hose, provided no runoff occurs.
            6.   Anyone using more than 20,000 gallons of water per month at
the time this stage is implemented will be charged a rate of $5 per 1,000
gallons of water over the 20,000 gallons used.
      (4)   Stage 4 response; critical water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Target. Achieve a voluntary reduction in the total well capacity
or firm booster pump capacity to less than 70%.
         (b)   Best management practices for supply management. The city will
reduce water demand by system water loss control and reduced or discontinued
irrigation of public landscaped areas.
         (c)   Water use restrictions for reducing demand. All requirements of
Stage 2 and 3 shall remain in effect during Stage 4 except:
            1.   No one may perform outdoor watering on any given day other
than providing water for pets and livestock.
            2.   Foundations may be watered every two weeks. Customers located
west of Hackberry Street may soak their foundation on the first and third
Wednesday of the month between 6:00 p.m. and midnight. Customers located east
of Hackberry Street may soak their foundation on the second and fourth
Wednesday of the month between 6:00 p.m. and midnight. The increased rates
implemented in Stage 3 will remain in effect through this stage.
            3.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle not occurring on the premises of a
commercial car wash and commercial service stations and not in the immediate
interest of public health, safety, and welfare is prohibited. Further, such
vehicle washing at commercial car washes and commercial service stations shall
occur only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. and between 6:00 p.m.
and 10:00 p.m.
            4.   The filling, refilling, or adding of water to swimming pools,
wading pools, and Jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited.
            5.   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a recirculation system.
            6.   No application for new, additional, expanded, or increased-in-
size water service connections, meters, service lines, pipeline extensions,
mains, or water service facilities of any kind shall be approved, and time
limits for approval of such applications are hereby suspended for such time as
this drought response stage or a higher-numbered stage shall be in effect.
      (5)   Stage 5 response; emergency water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Target. Achieve a voluntary reduction in the total well capacity
or firm booster pump capacity to less than 75% or reduce water use to prevent
more than 50% depletion of stored water volumes at any time.
         (b)   Best management practices for supply management. The city will
reduce water demand by system water loss control and reduced or discontinued
irrigation of public landscaped areas.
         (c)   Water use restrictions for reducing demand. All requirements of
Stage 2, 3, and 4 shall remain in effect during Stage 5 except:
            1.   All non-essential water use shall be prohibited unless
necessary for the preservation of health, safety, and welfare of residents.
            2.   Water usage for livestock is exempt.
(Ord. 24-103, passed 6-18-24)
§ 52.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally allow the use of water from
the city for residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, governmental,
or any other purpose in a manner contrary to any provision of this plan, or in
an amount in excess of that permitted by the drought response stage in effect
at the time pursuant to action taken by Mayor, or his or her designee, in
accordance with provisions of this plan.
   (B)   Any person who violates this plan is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction shall be punished by a fine. Each day that one or more of the
provisions in this plan is violated shall constitute a separate offense. If a
person is convicted of three or more distinct violations of this plan, the
Mayor shall, upon due notice to the customer, be authorized to discontinue
water service to the premises where such violations occur. Services
discontinued under such circumstances shall be restored only upon payment of a
re-connection charge, hereby established within the city’s established fee
schedule and any other costs incurred by the city in discontinuing service. In
addition, suitable assurance must be given to the Mayor that the same action
shall not be repeated while the plan is in effect. Compliance with this plan
may also be sought through injunctive relief in the district court.
   (C)   Any person, including a person classified as a water customer of the
city, in apparent control of the property where a violation occurs or
originates shall be presumed to be the violator, and proof that the violation
occurred on the person’s property shall constitute a rebuttable presumption
that the person in apparent control of the property committed the violation,
but any such person shall have the right to show that he or she did not commit
the violation. Parents shall be presumed to be responsible for violations of
their minor children and proof that a violation, committed by a child, occurred
on property within the parents’ control shall constitute a rebuttable
presumption that the parent committed the violation, but any such parent may be
excused if he or she proves that he or she had previously directed the child
not to use the water as it was used in violation of this plan and that the
parent could not have reasonably known of the violation.
   (D)   Any employee of the city, police officer, or other employee designated
by the Mayor, may issue a citation to a person he or she reasonably believes to
be in violation of this chapter. The citation shall be prepared in duplicate
and shall contain the name and address of the alleged violator, if known, the
offense charged, and shall direct him or her to appear in the municipal court
on the date shown on the citation for which the date shall not be less than
three days nor more than five days from the date the citation was issued. The
alleged violator shall be served a copy of the citation. Service of the
citation shall be complete upon delivery of the citation to the alleged
violator, to an agent or employee of a violator, or to a person over 14 years
of age who is a member of the violator’s immediate family or is a resident of
the violator’s residence. The alleged violator shall appear in municipal court
to enter a plea of guilty or not guilty for the violation of this plan. If the
alleged violator fails to appear in municipal court, a warrant for his or her
arrest may be issued. A summons to appear may be issued in lieu of an arrest
warrant. These cases shall be expedited and given preferential setting in
municipal court before all other cases.
(Ord. 24-103, passed 6-18-24)
§ 52.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, may, in writing, grant temporary
variance for existing water uses otherwise prohibited under this plan if it is
determined that failure to grant such variance would cause an emergency
condition adversely affecting the health, sanitation, or fire protection for
the public or the person requesting such variance and if one or more of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   Compliance with this plan cannot be technically accomplished during
the duration of the water supply shortage or other condition for which the plan
is in effect.
      (2)   Alternative methods can be implemented which will achieve the same
level of reduction in water use.
   (B)   Persons requesting an exemption from the provisions of this chapter
shall file a petition for variance with the city within five days after the
plan or a particular drought response stage has been invoked. All petitions for
variances shall be reviewed by the Mayor, or his or her designee, and shall
include the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the petitioner(s).
      (2)   Purpose of water use.
      (3)   Specific provision(s) of the plan from which the petitioner is
requesting relief.
      (4)   Detailed statement as to how the specific provision of the plan
adversely affects the petitioner or what damage or harm will occur to the
petitioner or others if petitioner complies with this chapter.
      (5)   Description of the relief requested.
      (6)   Period of time for which the variance is sought.
      (7)   Alternative water use restrictions or other measures the petitioner
is taking or proposes to take to meet the intent of this plan and the
compliance date.
      (8)   Other pertinent information.
(Ord. 24-103, passed 6-18-24)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
Repair of Sanitary Sewer Leaks
   
53.01   Responsibility and application
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Inspection
   
53.04   Notification
   
53.05   Repairs
   
53.06   Appeals
   
53.07   Violations; appeal
REPAIR OF SANITARY SEWER LEAKS
§ 53.01 RESPONSIBILITY AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Maintaining the integrity of the sanitary sewer system shall be the
responsibility of the City Administrator or his or her designee for the city.
   (B)   This chapter applies to all customer sewer service lines on private
property which flow into public lines in the city’s streets, alleys and
easements, including, but not limited to single-family or duplex residences,
manufactured homes and/or trailer parks, apartments, places of business,
schools, hospitals, churches, strictures of any kind, vacant buildings or
vacant land.
(Ord. 113-88, passed 12-15-87)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INFILTRATION. As defined by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, the
water entering a sewer system and service connections from the ground through
such means as, but not limited to defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or
manhole walls.
   INFLOW. As defined by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, the water
discharged into a sewer system and service connections from such sources as,
but not limited to roof leaders, cellars, swimming pool and/or spa drains, yard
and area drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm sewers
and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff and street wash
waters or drainage.
   SANITARY SEWER. A public sewer that conveys domestic waste water or
industrial wastes or a combination of both, and into which storm water, surface
water, groundwater and other unpolluted wastes are not intentionally passed.
   STORM SEWER. A public sewer which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage and into which domestic waste water or industrial wastes are not
intentionally passed.
(Ord. 113-88, passed 12-15-87)
§ 53.03 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Prior to original connection, reconnection or transfer of water and/or
sewer service to a tenant or property owner, the city, at its option, shall
inspect the customer’s private sanitary sewer service line and verify the
integrity thereof. Any defects discovered in the private line shall be repaired
by the property owner or his or her agent prior to obtaining original
connection, reconnection or transfer of city water and/or sewer service.
   (B)   The city has already surveyed and identified existing infiltration and
inflow on private sanitary sewer lines and will continue to inspect private
lines suspected of infiltration and inflow.
(Ord. 113-88, passed 12-15-87)
§ 53.04 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   The Utilities Department of the city will notify, in writing, by
registered mail, return receipt requested, each property owner on whose
property a source of inflow or infiltration of water into the city’s sanitary
sewer systems exists, as well as the nature and location of the sources. The
property owner shall, within three calendar months of date of notification,
have the sources repaired at his or her expense.
   (B)   A reminder notice will be sent in one month if the repairs have not
been satisfactorily completed.
   (C)   A cut off notice will be sent in two months if the repairs have not
been satisfactorily completed.
   (D)   Penalties provided from herein may be enforced at the end of the third
calendar month from the original notice.
(Ord. 113-88, passed 12-15-87)
§ 53.05 REPAIRS.
   (A)   If line in question is vitreous clay pipe and cannot be satisfactorily
repaired, the property owner may be required to replace the entire private clay
sewer service line with PVC pipe Schedule 40.
   (B)   All repairs must be made by a plumber licensed by the state or by a
resident property owner residing upon the property in question. Both the
plumber or owner must have a valid city plumbing permit for these specific
repairs prior to work commencing. A homeowner may install or maintain plumbing
and/or sewer equipment within his or her own property boundaries, provided that
the work done is done by himself or herself and used exclusively by him or her
or his or her family. The privilege does not convey the right to violate any
provision of this code nor is it to be construed as exempting any property
owner from obtaining a permit any paying the required fees therefor.
   (C)   After the repair has been completed and before it has been covered,
the City Plumbing Inspection Department shall be notified to inspect and
approve its adequacy and workmanship. If the City Plumbing Inspector leaves a
green tag signifying a satisfactory repair, the plumber or owner may replace
the cover.
   (D)   However, if the City Plumbing Inspector leaves a red tag, the plumber
or owner must contact the designated city official on the red tag and correct
the repairs as specified and then notify the City Plumbing Inspection
Department to reinspect the corrected repairs. No cover may be placed until a
green tag is attached to the repairs by the City Plumbing Inspection
Department. Otherwise owner and/or plumber shall be required to excavate and
the city shall reinspect the repairs, and if still defective turn off water
and/or sewer service.
(Ord. 113-88, passed 12-15-87)
§ 53.06 APPEALS.
   Appeals from a decision of the City Council shall be to the appropriate
court of the state having jurisdiction of the subject matter.
(Ord. 113-88, passed 12-15-87)
§ 53.07 VIOLATIONS; APPEAL.
   (A)   Should the property owner fail to make the necessary repairs within
the three-month period as set out above, the city shall have the option of
thereafter:
      (1)   Assessing a surcharge fee to his or her monthly wastewater charge;
and (The charge shall be determined by the city’s existing formula for
calculating domestic wastewater charges with exclusion of the gallon maximum
charge.)
      (2)   Terminating water and/or sewer service to the property.
   (B)   If, after exercising reasonable diligence, the city is unable to
locate the property owner or his or her agent or the property owner or his or
her agent refuses to make the necessary repairs, the city or its agent shall
have the right to go on the land or property upon which the source of inflow or
infiltration exists and make the repairs and inspection as above provided. The
owner of the property shall be liable to the city for the cost of the work and
the cost upon demand, which cost may be included upon the property owner’s next
monthly waste water charge with a reasonable service charge added for each
month the bill remains unpaid or the city may cut off the water and/or sewer
upon 30 days written notice to the customer.
   (C)   Within 30 days after notification that the water and/or sewer will be
cut off, the customer may:
      (1)   Arrange with the Utility Department to extend his or her payout
period without interest up to 60 months with the monthly payments added to his
or her regular water/sewer bill; or
      (2)   Appeal to the City Council for a hardship variance. The appeal
shall be submitted in writing to the Mayor’s office for hearing at a regular
scheduled Council meeting.
   (D)   If the property owner is unknown or does not pay the charge, the city
shall file a lien upon the land for the cost of the repair and a fine for the
extraneous water disposed of through the city’s sanitary sewer system and
wastewater treatment plant.
(Ord. 113-88, passed 12-15-87)
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   PARADES AND MOTORCADES
         
74.   RAILROADS
         
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
         
77.   GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic-control signs and signals
   
70.03   Traffic-control study adopted
   
70.04   Traffic-control map adopted
   
70.05   Obstructions of traffic prohibited
   
70.06   Enforcement
Pedestrians
   
70.20   Right-of-way
   
70.21   Overtaking and passing; crosswalks
Vehicle Equipment
   
70.35   Muffler required
   
70.36   Lights
   
70.37   Lights on parked vehicles
   
70.38   Flag at end of load
   
70.39   Mirrors
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the city.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation of curb and property lines at intersections or any other portion
of a roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
   HAND SIGNALS. All signals used by the operator by use of the hand and
forearm for the purpose of indicating his or her intentions of turning,
stopping or changing the course of the vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two or more streets or
highways which join one another at an angle whether or not one street or
highway crosses the other.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle, as herein defined, which is self-propelled.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. All signals, not inconsistent with this traffic
code, placed or erected by the city for the purpose of directing, warning or
regulating traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS. All signs, markings and devices, other than signals,
not inconsistent with this traffic code, placed or erected by the city for the
purpose of guiding, directing, warning or regulating traffic.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon a roadway,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and actually engaged in loading
or unloading or in obedience of traffic regulations or traffic signs and
signals.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Municipal Police Department or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or highway.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property lines.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. Every way set apart for public travel, except foot paths.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, busses and other
conveyances whether singly or together while using any street for purposes of
travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drained upon a public highway, excepting devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracts.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   The Council is to determine character and location of signs and
signals.
      (1)   The City Council shall, by resolution, determine and designate the
character or type of all official traffic signs and signals and shall designate
the location where the same shall be installed. Subject to this selection, the
Chief of Police is hereby authorized, and as to those signs and signals
required hereunder, it shall be his or her duty, to place and maintain or cause
to be placed and maintained all official traffic signs and signals. All signs
and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall so far as
practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the city.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, the sign herein required was not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that signs are required, the section shall be
effective without signs being erected to give notice thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any operator or driver of any motor vehicle
or vehicles of any kind to disobey any instruction of any official traffic sign
or signal placed in accordance with the provisions of this traffic code unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or to display upon or in
view of any street any unofficial sign, signal or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic sign or signal or signal
or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every
prohibited sign, signal or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
and the Chief of Police is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to
be removed, without notice.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, move,
obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
   (E)   The Chief of Police authorized to designate crosswalks. The Chief of
Police is hereby authorized to establish and to designate and shall thereafter
maintain or cause to be maintained, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in his or her
opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at
other places as he or she may deem necessary.
   (F)   The Chief of Police authorized to designate safety zones and lanes for
traffic.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to establish safety zones
of a kind and character and at such places as he or she may deem necessary for
the protection of pedestrians.
      (2)   The Chief of Police is also authorized to mark lanes for traffic on
street pavements at such places as he or she may deem advisable consistent with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.03 TRAFFIC-CONTROL STUDY ADOPTED.
   (A)   The traffic engineering study is hereby made a part hereof by
reference to the same extent as if fully copied herein and is hereby adopted by
the City Council, with the exception of the recommendations with regard to the
traffic-control lights situated on Main Street within the city.
   (B)   The Chief of Police of the city is hereby ordered and directed to
cause the traffic-control devices recommended in the traffic engineering study,
with the exception of the recommendations concerning traffic-control lights on
Main Street within the city, to be installed in accordance with the
recommendation of the traffic engineering study, and to indicate upon the
traffic-control map of the city and the date the traffic-control device or
devices were installed according to the ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 256, passed 7-5-78)
§ 70.04 TRAFFIC-CONTROL MAP ADOPTED.
   (A)   The City Council hereby adopts a traffic-control map for the city
which is identified in part as follows. The map is an official map of the city,
prepared by the City Engineer, S. A. Russell. The map is titled “Traffic-
Control Map of the City of Sweeny, Texas,” and is adopted with this section.
The map has indicated thereon in their approximate locations each and every
traffic-control sign or device now in place in the city, the type of sign or
device and, in general terms their purpose, such as: stop, yield, speed zone of
a number of miles per hour, school zone and the like. The map has been signed
by the Mayor of the city and is herewith filed with the City Secretary to be a
part of the business records of the city.
   (B)   The traffic-control signs and devices so indicated on the traffic-
control map have been installed as a result of traffic engineering studies and
their installation as indicated on the traffic-control map is hereby ordained,
ratified, affirmed, authorized and are found to be lawfully in place.
   (C)   (1)   The Chief of Police of the city is hereby directed to cause
appropriate traffic-control signs or devices to be installed (or removed from)
in, upon and along the public streets, roadways and other public rights-of-way
of the city, when authorized by the City Council by motion duly passed and
adopted by the City Council at an authorized meeting thereof at the City Hall.
      (2)   In connection herewith, the Chief of Police is hereby authorized
and directed to cause the installation or removal to be entered upon the
aforesaid traffic-control map, and indicate thereon the date the authority was
so granted, the date installed or removed, the type and general purpose of the
sign or traffic-control device and shall sign his or her name near the
approximate location thereof, and when so installed, and so indicated upon the
traffic-control map all persons, firms and corporations shall be required to
obey traffic-control signs or devices as a part of the laws of the city.
   (D)   Unless otherwise indicated by appropriate signs or signal devices in
place and indicated on the traffic-control map, the speed limit on streets,
roadways and other public rights-of-way within the city shall be in accordance
with the laws of the state.
(Ord. 209, passed 9-3-74)
§ 70.05 OBSTRUCTIONS OF TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby found and determined by the City Council that many
owners of corner lots abutting street intersections within the incorporated
city limits have permitted the growth of vegetation near the street
intersections thereby obstructing the view of the street intersection to the
traveling public endangering life and property creating a nuisance.
Accordingly, it shall be and is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation, to permit the growth of vegetation, whether trees, flowers
shrubs or other plant life, at or near any street intersection above the height
of two feet above ground elevation, in a manner as to obstruct the view of the
operator of a vehicle approaching any street intersection. Trees presently in
place shall not be deemed a violation hereof provided the trees are spaced at
least 15 feet apart and are trimmed from the ground elevation to a height of
six feet above ground elevation in a manner that the limbs and branches of the
tree do not come below the minimum six-foot elevation from the ground upward.
      (2)   In addition to the criminal punishment provided hereby, the City
Council may cause the institution of a civil case in the District Court of the
county against the violator of this division to abate the nuisance created by
the obstruction as is described in division (A)(1) above.
   (B)   It shall be and it is hereby ordained to be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation, their agents, servants or employees, to obstruct travel
upon any public street or alley within the incorporated city limits for a
period of time greater than ten minutes without clearing the obstruction of the
street or alley for a period of time not less than ten minutes thereby
permitting unobstructed travel of the street or alley during the time.
(Ord. 161, passed 5-21-68; Am. Ord. 171, passed 3-7-70)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Police to direct traffic. It shall be the duty of the Police
Department of the city to enforce the provisions of this traffic code. Officers
of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all traffic either in
person or by means of visible or audible signal in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter, provided that in the event of a fire or other
emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, officers of the
Police or Fire Department may direct traffic, as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of this traffic code.
      (2)   Adoption of emergency regulations. The Chief of Police is hereby
empowered to make and enforce regulations necessary to make more effective the
provisions of this chapter and to make and enforce temporary regulations to
cover emergencies or special conditions.
      (3)   Obedience to police. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse
to or fail to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police
officer.
      (4)   Public employees to obey traffic regulations. The provisions of
this traffic code shall apply to the operator of any vehicle owned by or used
for the service of the U.S. Government, the state, the county or the city and
it shall be unlawful for any operator to violate any of the provisions of this
traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this traffic code.
      (5)   Exemptions to authorized emergency vehicles. The provisions of this
traffic code regulating the movement, parking and standing of vehicles shall
not apply to Fire Department or Police Department vehicles or to ambulances,
while the operator of the vehicle if operating the same in an emergency in the
necessary performance of public duties. This exception shall not, however,
protect the driver of any vehicle from the consequences of a reckless disregard
for the safety of others, or of the property of others.
      (6)   Police authorized to tow cars to pound. Any official of the city or
any police officer or any agent of the city is hereby given authority to tow or
cause to be towed to the city pound or other place designated as a pound any
vehicle which is parked in violation of any of the provisions of this traffic
code.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be lawful for and mandatory upon the Police Department
of the city to enforce the traffic-control signs which have been placed upon or
adjacent to public school property designed to control traffic entering into or
exiting from the public school property onto the public streets of the city.
The signs must, however, be in conformity with the Uniform Traffic Safety Code
concerning Traffic- Control Signs and Traffic-Control Devices and be approved
by the Chief of Police.
      (2)   The traffic signs so installed shall have the meaning attributed to
them by the Uniform Traffic Code of the state, as amended.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, to fail
to obey traffic-control signs when and where installed do govern motor vehicle
traffic into the public school grounds in the city and to govern motor vehicle
traffic exiting from public school grounds in the city.
(Ord. 101-93, passed 12-15-92)
Penalty, see § 70.99
PEDESTRIANS
§ 70.20 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The operator or driver of any vehicle, motor or otherwise, shall yield
the right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked
crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at the end of a block, except at
intersections where the movement of traffic is being regulated by police
officers or traffic-control signals. After the operator or driver shall have
stopped his or her vehicle, or brought it safely under control, so as to permit
the pedestrian to safely pass, he or she may cross the marked crosswalk or
intersection without waiting for other pedestrians not endangered thereby.
   (B)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked or unmarked crosswalk shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles upon the
roadway, provided that this section shall not relieve the driver of a vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care for the safety of pedestrians.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
§ 70.21 OVERTAKING AND PASSING; CROSSWALKS.
   Whenever any vehicle has stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, it shall be unlawful
for the operator or driver of any vehicle approaching from the rear to overtake
and pass the stopped vehicle, but the operator or driver of the stopped vehicle
shall not impede the progress of vehicles in the rear any longer than is
reasonably necessary under the circumstances, and safety is to be considered.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
§ 70.35 MUFFLER REQUIRED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon any roadway unless the vehicle is
provided with muffler which is in efficient and actual working condition.
   (B)   The use of a cutout is prohibited.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.36 LIGHTS.
   (A)   All motor vehicles, with the exception of motorcycles, must be
provided with at least two suitable lights for the front and one for the rear
of the vehicles.
   (B)   All motor vehicles shall be provided with at least one light in the
front and rear, when being operated or moved along the road after dare.
   (C)   All lights shall be lighted during the period of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.37 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped on a street during the times between
one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise or at any other
time when there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible any
vehicle upon the street from a distance of 200 feet, there shall be displayed
upon the vehicle one or more lamps, projecting a light visible under normal
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to 18 feet in front of the vehicle and
projecting a red light visible under like conditions from a distance of 500
feet to the rear, except that the parking light or lights need not be displayed
upon any vehicle stopped or parked in accordance with other provisions of this
traffic code upon any street mere there is sufficient light to reveal any
person within a distance of 200 feet upon the street.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.38 FLAG AT END OF LOAD.
   Whenever the load of any vehicle shall extend more than four feet beyond the
rear of the bed or body thereof, there shall be displayed at the end of the
load, in a position as to be clearly visible at all times from the rear of the
load, a red flag not less than 12 inches in length and width.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.39 MIRRORS.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public roadway unless the
vehicle is equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the operator a
view of the roadway for a distance of 200 feet to the rear of the vehicle.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this title, an act is prohibited or is made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or wherever in this title the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, and no specific penalty is otherwise provided in this code of
ordinances, the violation shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500,
provided, however, that no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty
provided for the same or a similar offense of the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day a violation of this code or of any ordinance continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Traffic-control signal; legend
Operation Regulations
   
71.15   Driving on right side of street
   
71.16   Overtaking other vehicles
   
71.17   Turning at intersections and other places
   
71.18   U-turns
   
71.19   Stopping vehicles at intersection
   
71.20   Right-of-way
   
71.21   Hand signals
   
71.22   Stopping, turning and backing
   
71.23   Passing trains, inter-urbans and street cars
   
71.24   Passing on hills and curves
   
71.25   Approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.26   Following fire apparatus
Service Cars, Taxicabs and Delivery Trucks
   
71.40   Permit required
   
71.41   Permit and certificate
Prohibited Activity
   
71.55   Driving through processions
   
71.56   Emerging from alley or private driveway
   
71.57   Driving on sidewalks
   
71.58   Vehicles left unattended; brakes and engine stopped
   
71.59   Intoxicated operators
   
71.60   Obstruction of traffic
   
71.61   Unnecessary noise
   
71.62   Speed limits
   
71.63   Riding outside vehicles
   
71.64   Railway trains blocking traffic
   
71.65   Operating neighborhood electric vehicles and motor assisted scooters
   
71.66   Skateboarding on public rights-of-way
Cross-reference:
   Manufactures Homes and Home Parks; Recreational Vehicle Parks, see
Chapter 151
   Parades and Motorcades, see
Chapter 73
   Traffic Schedules, see
Chapter 75
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL; LEGEND.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever traffic at an intersection is controlled by traffic-
control signals exhibiting colored lights or the words “go,” “caution” and
“stop.”
      (2)   The lights and terms shall indicate as follows:
         (a)   Green or “go.” Traffic facing the signal may proceed, except
that vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and vehicles
lawfully within a crosswalk or the intersection at the time the signal was
exhibited.
         (b)   Yellow or “caution.” When shown alone following the green or
“go,” traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk at the intersection unless so close to the intersection that a stop
cannot be made in safety.
         (c)   Red or “stop.” Traffic facing the signal shall stop before
entering the nearest crosswalk at the intersections or at other point as may bb
designated and remain standing until green or “go” is shown alone.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle (or bus) intending to turn to the left at an
intersection where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals or by a
police officer shall proceed to make the left turn with proper garb to avoid
accident and only upon the “go” signal unless otherwise directed by a police
officer.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
OPERATION REGULATIONS
§ 71.15 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF STREET.
   Upon all streets and other public roadways, the operator of a vehicle shall
drive the same upon the right-half of the roadway, and the operator of a slowly
moving vehicle shall drive the vehicle as close as possible to the right-hand
edge or curb of the roadway unless it is impracticable to travel on the side of
the roadway and except when overtaking and passing another vehicle.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
§ 71.16 OVERTAKING OTHER VEHICLES.
   Vehicles proceeding in the same direction shall pass to the left thereof and
shall not again drive to the right of the roadway until the roadway is
reasonably clear of the overtaken vehicle. It is the duty of the operator of
the overtaking vehicle to sound audible and suitable signal before passing a
vehicle proceeding in the same direction. It is the duty of the operator of any
vehicle about to be overtaken and passed to give to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on suitable and addible signal, given by or on behalf of the
operator of the overtaking vehicle.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
§ 71.17 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS AND OTHER PLACES.
   (A)   Right turns. The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the right
at an intersection or into an alley or driveway shall approach the point of
turning on that portion of the roadway nearest the right hand edge or curb of
the roadway.
   (B)   Turning left. The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left
at an intersection cat into a driveway shall. Approach the point of turning on
that part of the roadway next to the center thereof. Unless otherwise directed
by “turning markers,” the operator of a vehicle in turning left at an
intersection shall pass to the right of the center of the intersection before
turning left.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
§ 71.18 U-TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in a manner
as to make a U-turn upon the streets and at the street intersection within the
corporate city limits. This section shall not apply at any location in any
street or street intersection within the incorporated city limits where a sign
has been installed under the direction of the Police Chief of the city, which
authorizes a U-turning movement.
(Ord. 144, passed 12-6-66; Am. Ord. 146, passed 1-3-67)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.19 STOPPING VEHICLES AT INTERSECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any operator of a vehicle to approach any street
intersection without bringing the vehicle to a full stop within a distance of
five feet from the line of intersection and before crossing the line of
intersection when and where a “stop” sign shall be displayed by being plainly
marked or painted and displayed in the street in full view of the operator or
operators of vehicles at the street intersections.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.20 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Except where traffic is controlled by official sign or signal, or by
police officers, the operator of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from his or her right when
the vehicle is within 50 feet of the intersection.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle entering a public street from a private road
or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
public roadway.
   (C)   The operator of a vehicle on a roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the operators thereof sound audible signal by bell, siren or
exhaust whistle.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
§ 71.21 HAND SIGNALS.
   If an operator wishes to turn, stop or back his or her vehicle or to move
from one lane of traffic to another, and is unable to use the motor vehicle’s
turn signals, he or she shall indicate the intention by a signal of the hand
and forearm made as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Extend a hand and the forearm beyond the operator’s side of
the vehicle in a horizontal position.
   (B)   Right turn. Extend a hand and the forearm beyond the operator’s side
of the vehicle at an angle of 45 degrees pointing upward.
   (C)   Stop. Extend a hand and the forearm beyond the operator’s side of the
vehicle at an angle of 45 degrees pointing downward.
   (D)   Back. Extend a hand and the forearm beyond the operator’s side of the
vehicle moving same in an up and down motion.
   (E)   Turning from one lane of traffic to another. Same as for a turn in the
same direction.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
§ 71.22 STOPPING, TURNING AND BACKING.
   The operator of any vehicle upon any public highway before turning, stopping
or changing the course of the vehicle shall see first that there is sufficient
space for the movement to be made in safety and if the movement or operation of
other vehicles may reasonably be affected at the turning, stopping or changing
the course, shall give plainly visible signal to the operator of the vehicle of
his or her intentions to turn, stop or change the course in accordance with the
§
71.21.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
§ 71.23 PASSING TRAINS, INTER-URBANS AND STREET CARS.
   Before attempting to pass any railroad train, inter-urban car or street car
stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers, every operator
of a vehicle approaching the same from the rear and proceeding in the same
direction shall bring the vehicle to a full stop and shall not again start up
or attempt to pass until the railroad train, inter-urban car or street car has
finished receiving and discharging its passengers.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
§ 71.24 PASSING ON HILLS AND CURVES.
   Every vehicle, when moving along such portions of the roadway where the
curvature of the roadway prevents a clear view for a distance ahead of 100
yards shall be held under control.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
§ 71.25 APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles giving
audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle, the operator of every other
vehicle shall immediately drive the same to a position as near as possible and
parallel to the right-hand edge or curb of the street, clear of any
intersection and shall stop and remain in the position until the authorized
emergency vehicles or vehicles shall have passed unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
§ 71.26 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   Upon the sounding of gongs or warning devices used upon firs apparatus,
operators shall stop their vehicles as near to the right curb as possible and
shall remain standing until the fire apparatus has passed or until five minutes
after the official fire siren has started sounding. It shall be unlawful for
the operator of any vehicle to follow any fire apparatus in response to the
fire alarm closer than 300 feet from the rear of the apparatus.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SERVICE CARS, TAXICABS AND DELIVERY TRUCKS
§ 71.40 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or cause to be operated within
the city any of the following classes of motor vehicles without first
obtaining, from the City Secretary, a permit to do so:
   (A)   Service cars or taxicabs which carry passengers for hire; or
   (B)   Commercial trucks which are used for the purpose of delivering
laundry, clothes, bread, ice, dairy products, petroleum products, bottled
drinks, merchandise or any other commodity and ambulances.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.41 PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE.
   When the City Clerk issues the permit, as provided for in §
71.40, he or she shall furnish the applicant or owner with a certificate for
each vehicle showing that all of the provisions of this subchapter have been
fulfilled. This certificate shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
vehicle, or carried in a holder within the vehicle so that it will be
accessible for inspection at all times. Failure to carry the certificate shall
be deemed sufficient cause for revocation of the permit for that particular
vehicle to operate on the streets of the city.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
PROHIBITED ACTIVITY
§ 71.55 DRIVING THROUGH PROCESSIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive between the
vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are in
motion. This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic-control signals or by police officers.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.56 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across the alleyway.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.57 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area, except
at permanent or temporary driveways.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.58 VEHICLES LEFT UNATTENDED; BRAKES AND ENGINE STOPPED.
   No person having control or charge of any motor vehicle shall allow the
vehicle to stand on any street unattended without first setting the brakes
thereon and stopping the motor of the vehicles and when standing upon a
perceptible grade, without turning the front wheels of the vehicle to the curb
or the side of the street or highway.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.59 INTOXICATED OPERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person while in an intoxicated condition or
under the influence of narcotic drugs to operate or attempt to operate any
vehicle.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.60 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon any street in a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.61 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud
unnecessary noise.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.62 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Any operator of a vehicle on a roadway shall operate the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than is reasonable and proper, having due
regard to the traffic, surface and width of the roadway and of any other
conditions then existing, and no operator shall drive any vehicle upon a
roadway at a speed as to endanger the life, limb or property of any person.
Rates of speed in excess of the following are prima facie evidence of violation
of this section.
      (1)   In the business district: 25 miles per hour.
      (2)   In a residence district: 25 miles per hour.
      (3)   When passing a school building or the grounds thereof during school
recess or while children are going to or leaving school during opening and
closing hours: 25 miles per hour.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle upon a
roadway carelessly and heedlessly in wilful or wanton disregard of the rights
of safety of others, or without due caution or circumspection and at a speed or
in a manner as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed Limits, see Traffic Schedule IV
§ 71.63 RIDING OUTSIDE VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on any portion of any vehicle
not designated or intended for the use of passengers while the vehicle is in
motion. This provision does not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of his or her duty, nor to persons riding within truck bodies
intended for merchandise.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.64 RAILWAY TRAINS BLOCKING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for the directing officer of the operator of any stem
railway train or car to direct the operation of or to operate the same in a
manner as to prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period
of time longer than five minutes, except that this provision shall not apply to
trains or care in motion other than those engaged in switching.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.65 OPERATING NEIGHBORHOOD ELECTRIC VEHICLES AND MOTOR ASSISTED SCOOTERS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) hereof, neighborhood electric
vehicles and motor assisted scooters as defined in Tex. Trans. Code, § 551.301
are prohibited and shall not be operated on the following heavily traveled
streets due to the hazards presented by the vehicles for those operators and
other motorists and in the interest of public safety:
      (1)   The entire length of Main Street within the city limits,
      (2)   On FM 1459 (known as Seventh Street, McKinney Street and Second
Street) from the city limits to its intersection with Main Street,
      (3)   The entire length of Hackberry Street within the city limits,
      (4)   The entire length of Elm Street within the city limits, and
      (5)   The entire length of Ashley-Wilson Road within the city limits.
   (B)   In all areas of the city, pedestrians shall have the right of way on
sidewalks versus any neighborhood electric vehicle or any motor assisted
scooter.
   (C)   Any person who possesses a valid driver's license to operate a motor
vehicle in this state and is over the age of 18 years of age, shall be exempt
from the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Any person, firm, corporation, association or other entity that
violates this section shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each
violation.
(Ord. 102-04, passed 12-16-03; Am. Ord. 109-04, passed 8-17-04)
§ 71.66 SKATEBOARDING ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The use of a skateboard or skateboarding of any kind is hereby
prohibited and shall not be permitted on any portion of the public right-of-
way, including sidewalks, within the downtown district of the City of Sweeny,
on and along Main Street beginning at the railroad right-of-way at Anderson
Park and extending to the intersection of Main Street and Seventh Street, due
to the hazards presented by the use of skateboards to their operators and other
citizens and in the interest of public safety.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, association or other entity that
violates this section shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each
violation.
(Ord. 110-04, passed 8-17-04)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Stopping prohibited in certain places
   
72.02   Loading and unloading
   
72.03   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
72.04   Parking prohibited in certain places
   
72.05   Restricted hours
   
72.06   All-night parking
   
72.07   Standing or parking close to curb
   
72.08   Parking vehicles for sale prohibited
   
72.09   Using vehicles for advertising purposes prohibited
§ 72.01 STOPPING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand or park
the vehicle in any of the following places or in compliance with the directions
of a police officer or traffic-control device or signal:
   (A)   In the center of the streets;
   (B)   Within a street intersection;
   (C)   On a crosswalk;
   (D)   Upon any bridge or viaduct or in any subway and the approach thereto;
   (E)   Within 25 feet from the intersection of curb lines, or if none, then
within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines at an intersection, except
at alleys;
   (F)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadways;
   (G)   Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station;
   (H)   Within ten feet of any fire hydrant;
   (I)   In front of any private driveway, except with the consent of the
owner;
   (J)   On a sidewalk;
   (K)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when the
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (L)   At any places where official traffic signs have been erected
prohibiting standing and parking; and
   (M)   On the roadway beside any vehicle stopped or parked at the right hand
edge or curb of a street. It is the intention of this division (M) to prohibit
what is commonly known as double parking or double line parking.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.02 LOADING OR UNLOADING.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have authority by and with the consent of
the City Council to determine the location of passenger zones and loading zones
and shall erect and maintain or cause to be maintained appropriate signs
indicating the same.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand or
park the vehicle for a period of time longer than necessary for the expeditions
loading or unloading of passengers in any space marked as a passenger zone.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand or
park the vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the
expeditious loading or unloading of passenger or for the unloading and delivery
or pick up and loading or unloading or passengers or for the unloading and
delivery or pick up and loading materials, in any place marked as a loading
zone. In no case shall the stop for loading and for unloading of materials
exceed 30 minutes.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.03 BUS STOP AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the right to establish bus stops and
taxicab stands on the public streets in the places and in the number as it
shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public,
and every bus stop and taxicab stand so established shall be designated by
appropriate signs.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator or driver of any vehicle other
than a bus to stand or park in an officially designated bus stop, or for any
vehicle other than a bus or taxicab to stand or park in an officially
designated taxicab stand, except that the operator or driver of any passenger
vehicle may temporarily stop in any stop or stand for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operators of any bus or taxicab to stand
or park upon any street in any business district at any place other than at a
bus stop or taxicab stand respectively, except that this provision shall not
prevent the operator of any vehicle from temporarily stopping in accordance
with other stopping or parking regulations at any place for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.04 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any operator to stop, stand or park any
vehicle upon a street, other than an alley in a manner or under conditions as
to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway free for
movement of vehicular traffic, except on streets on which no parking is allowed
during the actual unloading or loading of passengers or when necessary in
obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs or signals or a police
officer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any operator to park a vehicle within an
alley in a manner or under conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any operator to park any vehicle within 300
feet of any burning building or structure or thing where fire-fighting
apparatus is being used for the purpose of extinguishing same, except under the
direction of the Chief or other officer of the Fire Department or a police
officer of the city.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.05 RESTRICTED HOURS.
   The operator or driver of any vehicle shall not park the vehicle between the
hours of 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. of any day within the district or streets designated
by the City Council by resolution, except in accordance with the time limit
specified on the official signs and signals and other provisions of this
chapter. Sundays and legal holidays are excepted. Signs shall be placed or
erected and maintained in each block designating the provisions of this section
upon the passage of the resolution.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.06 ALL-NIGHT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to park the vehicle for
a period of time longer than 30 minutes between the hours of 12 midnight and 6
a.m. on any street designated by the City Council.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.07 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   (A)   Except when necessary, in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic
signs or signals, the operator of a vehicle shall not stop, stand or park the
vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed
in the direction of the traffic, and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle
within six inches of the edge of the curb, except upon those streets which have
been marked or signed for angle parking, in which case, vehicles shall be
parked at the angle to the cub indicated by the sign.
   (B)   The City Council shall determine, by resolution, upon what street
angle parking shall be permitted and shall, at the time of the determining,
provide for the marking or signing of the streets.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.08 PARKING VEHICLES FOR SALE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon a street any vehicle
displayed for the purpose of selling same.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.09 USING VEHICLES FOR ADVERTISING PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park on any street any vehicle for
the primary purpose of displaying advertising.
(Ord. 33, passed 11-23-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARADES AND MOTORCADES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Permits
   
73.03   Commercial purposes
   
73.04   Interference prohibited
   
73.05   Application for permit
   
73.06   Issuance or denial of permit
   
73.07   Contents of permit
   
73.08   Appeal procedure
   
73.09   Officials to be notified
   
73.10   Revocation of permit
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORCADE. An organized procession containing 25 or more vehicles, except
funeral processions, upon any public street, sidewalk or alley.
   PARADE. Any march or procession consisting of people, animals or vehicles,
or combination thereof, except funeral processions, upon any public street,
sidewalk or alley, which does not comply with normal and usual traffic
regulations or controls.
(Ord. 187, passed 2-1-72)
§ 73.02 PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a parade or motorcade in or
upon any public street, sidewalk or alley in the city or knowingly participate
in any parade or motorcade unless and until a permit to conduct the parade or
motorcade has been obtained from the Chief of Police, or, as hereinafter
provided, from the City Council.
(Ord. 187, passed 2-1-72)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.03 COMMERCIAL PURPOSES.
   No permit shall be issued authorizing the conduct of a parade or motorcade
which the Chief of Police finds is proposed to be held for the sole purpose of
advertising any product, goods, wares, merchandise or event, and is designed to
be held purely for private profit.
(Ord. 187, passed 2-1-72)
§ 73.04 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly join or participate in any parade or motorcade
conducted under permit from the Chief of Police in violation of any of the
terms of the permit, nor knowingly join or participate in any permitted parade
or motorcade without the consent and over the objection of the permittee, nor
in any manner interfere with its progress or orderly conduct.
(Ord. 187, passed 2-1-72)
§ 73.05 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person who wants to conduct a parade or motorcade shall apply to
the Chief of Police for a permit at least 30 days in advance of the date of the
proposed parade or motorcade. The Chief of Police may, in his or her
discretion, consider any application for a permit to conduct a parade or
motorcade which is filed less than 30 days prior to the date the parade or
motorcade is to be conducted. The application for the permit shall be made in
writing on a form approved by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   In order that adequate arrangements may be made for the proper
policing of the parade or motorcade, the application shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name of the applicant, the sponsoring organization, the parade
or motorcade chairperson and the addresses and telephone numbers of each;
      (2)   The purpose of the parade or motorcade, the date when it is
proposed to be conducted, the location of the assembly area, the location of
the disbanding area, route to be traveled and the approximate time when the
parade or motorcade will assemble, start and terminate;
      (3)   A description of the individual floats, marching units, vehicles,
bands, including a description of any sound amplification equipment to be used;
and
      (4)   Other information as the Chief of Police may deem reasonably
necessary.
(Ord. 187, passed 2-1-72)
§ 73.06 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall issue a parade or motorcade permit
conditioned upon the applicant’s written agreement to comply with the terms of
the permit unless the Chief of Police finds that:
      (1)   The time, route and size of the parade or motorcade will disrupt,
to an unreasonable extent, the movement of other traffic;
      (2)   The parade or motorcade is of a size or nature that requires the
diversion of so great a number of police officers of the city to properly
police the line of movement and the areas contiguous thereto that allowing the
parade or motorcade would deny reasonable police protection to the city; and
      (3)   The parade or motorcade will interfere with another parade or
motorcade for which a permit has been issued.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall deny an application for a parade or
motorcade permit and notify the applicant of the denial where:
      (1)   The Chief of Police makes any finding contrary to the findings
required to be made for the issuance of a permit;
      (2)   The information contained in the application is found to be false
or nonexistent in any material detail; and
      (3)   The applicant refuses to agree to abide by or comply with all
conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 187, passed 2-1-72)
§ 73.07 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   (A)   In each permit, the Chief of Police shall specify:
      (1)   The assembly area and time therefor;
      (2)   The starting time;
      (3)   The minimum and maximum speeds;
      (4)   The route of the parade or motorcade;
      (5)   What portions of streets to be traversed may be occupied by the
parade or motorcade;
      (6)   The maximum number of platoons or units and the maximum and minimum
intervals of space to be maintained between the units of the parade or
motorcade;
      (7)   The maximum length of the parade or motorcade in miles or fractions
thereof;
      (8)   The disbanding area and disbanding time;
      (9)   The number of persons required to monitor the parade or motorcade;
      (10)   The number and type of vehicles, if any;
      (11)   The material and maximum size of any sign, banner, placard or
carrying device therefor;
      (12)   The materials used in the construction of floats used in any
parade shall be of fire retardant materials and shall be subject to the
requirements concerning fire safety, as may be determined by the Fire Chief;
      (13)   That the permittee advised all participants in the parade or
motorcade, either orally or by written notice, of the terms and conditions of
the permit, prior to the commencement of the parade or motorcade;
      (14)   That the amplification of sound permitted to be emitted from sound
trucks or bull horns, be fixed and not variable;
      (15)   That the parade or motorcade continue to move at a fixed rate of
speed and that any willful delay or willful stopping of the parade or
motorcade, except when reasonably required for the safe and orderly conduct of
the parade or motorcade, shall constitute a violation of the permit; and
      (16)   Other requirements as are found by the Chief of Police to be
reasonably necessary for the protection of persons or property.
   (B)   All conditions of the permit shall be complied with so far as
reasonably practicable.
(Ord. 187, passed 2-1-72)
§ 73.08 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon a denial by the Chief of Police of an application made pursuant
to §
73.05, the applicant may appeal from the determination of the Chief of Police
within five days thereafter to the City Council by filing a written notice of
appeal for hearing by the Council at its next meeting. Upon the appeal, the
City Council may reverse, affirm or modify, in any regard, the determination of
the Chief of Police.
   (B)   In the event an application is not filed within the required time, as
specified in §
73.05, the applicant may request a waiver of the requirement by the City
Council at its next regular meeting, or at a special meeting which may be
called prior thereto by the City Council to consider the matter, and the City
Council, if it finds unusual circumstances and in the exercise of its sound
discretion, may waive the requirement.
(Ord. 187, passed 2-1-72)
§ 73.09 OFFICIALS TO BE NOTIFIED.
   Immediately upon the granting of a permit for a parade or motorcade, the
Chief of Police shall send a copy thereof to the following:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Secretary;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The Director of General Services; and
   (E)   The Public Works Director.
(Ord. 187, passed 2-1-72)
§ 73.10 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit for a parade or motorcade issued pursuant to this chapter may be
summarily revoked by the Chief of Police at any time when, by reason of
disaster, public calamity, riot or other emergency, the Chief of Police
determines that the safety of the public or property requires the revocation.
Notice of the action revoking a permit shall be delivered in writing to the
permittee by personal service or by certified mail.
(Ord. 187, passed 2-1-72)
CHAPTER 74: RAILROADS
Section
   
74.01   Dangerous crossing
   
74.02   Parking near intersection
   
74.03   Avoidance of provisions
Cross-reference:
4   Railway trains blocking traffic, see
§ 71.64
§ 74.01 DANGEROUS CROSSING.
   The City Council hereby determines, based upon evidence before it, that
street crossings of railroad tracks which are not protected by signals and
which have railroad engines, cars, motor cars or railroad equipment standing or
parked on sidings near the main line of the railroad and within 300 feet of the
street intersection of the street right-of-way line with the railroad is a
dangerous crossing exposing the traveling public to harm and damage to their
property and their persons and exposes the train crew to injury.
(Ord. 69, passed 2-17-59; Am. Ord. 103-69B-90, passed 12-19-89)
§ 74.02 PARKING NEAR INTERSECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any engineer or employee of a railroad to park or
cause to be parked or stand any railroad engine, railroad car, railroad tank
car, railroad motor car or railroad equipment on siding rails within 300 feet
of the intersection of the rights-of-way lines of any public street crossing a
railroad track within the city limits, which is not guarded or protected by a
signal devise approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 69, passed 2-17-59; Am. Ord. 103-69B-90, passed 12-19-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 74.03 AVOIDANCE OF PROVISIONS.
   Any railroad operating within the city may avoid the provisions of this
chapter by stopping all trains going through the unsignaled street crossing
within 75 feet of the nearest intersection of the railroad with the nearest
right-of-way line of the intersecting street, posting flagpersons equipped with
signal devises on either side of the railroad tracks to signal the approach of
the train, and by then proceeding across the intersection at a speed of not
more than ten miles per hour; by retraining from parking or standing of
railroad engines, railroad cars, railroad tank cars, railroad motor cars or
other railroad equipment within the prohibited area; or by providing a signal
at the crossing which is approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 69, passed 2-17-59; Am. Ord. 103-69B-90, passed 12-19-89)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   “No through truck” routes
   
III.   “No entrance” areas
   
IV.   Speed limits
   
V.   “Through truck” routes
   
VI.   Turn restrictions
   
VII.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   All persons operating motor vehicles in the city shall stop at the following
marked intersections.
 
Street          Location                      Type of Stop Ord. No. Date Passed
                Intersection of West Ashley
                Wilson Road and the extension              113-93   3-22-93
                of Texas Avenue
Brockman Street Intersection with Meador      Two-way      104-95   11-15-94
                Street
Kent Street     Intersection with Shady Drive Two-way      104-95   11-15-94
Orange Street   Intersection with Fourth      Two-way      102-96   11-21-95
                Street
Third Street    Intersection with Orange      Two-way      102-96   11-21-95
                Street
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II. “NO THROUGH TRUCK” ROUTES.
   The following are designated “no through truck” routes in the city.
 
Street     Location                             Direction  Ord. No. Date Passed
Avenue A   Intersection with Main Street                   102-95   10-18-94
           Intersection with Main Street                   102-95   10-18-94
Elm Street Intersection with Second Street      Southbound 102-95   10-18-94
           Intersection with Second Street      Northbound 102-95   10-18-94
           Intersection with Ashley Wilson Road Southbound 102-95   10-18-94
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III. “NO ENTRANCE” AREAS.
   The following are designated “no entrance” areas in the city.
 
Street       Location          Special Provisions      Ord. No. Date Passed
             Intersection with Between the hours of 7:
School Drive Sixth Street      30 a.m. and 9 a.m. and  113-93   3-22-93
                               2:30 p.m. and 4 p.m.
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
   A driver of a motor vehicle in the city shall operate the vehicle at the
speeds listed below.
Street Location Speed Limit Special Provisions Ord. No. Date Passed
Street       Location         Speed Limit Special          Ord. No. Date Passed
                                          Provisions
                                          All railway
                             20 mph      equipment,       106-90   2-20-90
                                          trains and cars
             From its
             intersection
Calvie Brown with FM 524 to
Road         the termination  20 mph                      25-M100  5-20-25
             of said road
             inside the
             Industrial Park
             From the
             northern limits
             of the city to a
             point 1,056 feet
             south of the     55 mph                      101-01   1-22-01
             northern limits
             of the city, a
             distance
             approximately
             .200 mile
             From a point
             1,056 feet south
             of the northern
             limits of the
             city to a point
             2,112 feet south 45 mph                      101-01   1-22-01
             of the northern
             city limits, a
             distance
             approximately
             .200 mile
             From a point
             2,112 feet south
FM 1459      of the northern
             limits of the
             city to the      35 mph                      101-01   1-22-01
             centerline of FM
             524, a distance
             of approximately
             1.244 miles
             From the
             northeast city
             limit to a point
             1,056 feet
             southwest of the 50 mph                      272      8-21-79
             northeast city
             limit, a
             distance of
             approximately
             .200 mile
             From a point
             1,056 feet
             southwest of the
             northeast city   35 mph                      272      8-21-79
             limit to FM 524,
             a distance of
             1.444 miles
             From the
             northwest city
             limit to a point
             1,320 feet
             southeast of the 50 mph                      272      8-21-79
             northwest city
             limit, a
             distance of
             approximately
             .250 mile
             From a point
             1,320 feet
             southeast of the
             northwest city
             limit to a point
             1,400 feet       45 mph                      272      8-21-79
             southeast of
             Ashley Wilson
             Road, a distance
             of approximately
             .530 mile
             From a point
             1,400 feet
             southeast of
FM 524       Ashley Wilson
             Road to a point
             332 feet         40 mph                      272      8-21-79
             southeast of
             Avenue A, a
             distance of
             approximately
             .233 mile
             From a point 332
             feet southeast
             of Avenue A to
             the south city   40 mph                      272      8-21-79
             limit, a
             distance of
             approximately
             .233 mile
             From a point 132
             feet southeast
             of Seventh
             Street to a                  When light is
             point 16 feet    20 mph      flashing, school 272      8-21-79
             southeast of                 speed zone
             Fifth Street, a
             distance of
             approximately
             .200 mile
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE V. “THROUGH TRUCK” ROUTES.
   The following are designated “through truck” routes.
 
Street  Location                                           Ord. No. Date Passed
FM 1459 From the city limit sign as traffic enters the     113-95   8-15-95
        city until its intersection with Main Street
        From the city limit sign as FM 524 enters the city
FM 524  from the north to the city limit sign as FM 524    113-95   8-15-95
        enters the city from the south
 
SCHEDULE VI. TURN RESTRICTIONS.
   The following turns shall be restricted in the designated location.
 
Location               Type of Turn Special Provisions   Ord. No. Date Passed
                       Restricted
Intersection of School              Between the hours of
Drive and Sycamore     Left turn    7:30 a.m. and 9 a.m. 113-93   3-22-93
Street                              and 2:30 p.m. and 4
                                    p.m.
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VII. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following are designated one-way streets. It shall be unlawful to
operate a motor vehicle contrary to the following.
 
Street       Location          Special Provisions     Ord. No. Date Passed
             Intersection with Between the hours of 7
School Drive North Avenue L    a.m. and 9 a.m. and 2: 113-93   3-22-93
                               30 p.m. and 4 p.m.
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking
   
II.   Restricted spaces
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   The following areas shall be designated “no parking” areas in the city.
 
Street                  Location    Side(s) Ord. No. Date Passed
Ashley Wilson Road West 1,000 block North   107-93   2-16-93
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II. RESTRICTED SPACES.
   The following are designated spaces that have been restricted by the city.
 
Location             Number of Spaces Special Provisions   Ord. No. Date Passed
In front of the City Six              During library hours 114-93   5-18-93
Branch Library                        only
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 77: GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES
Section
   
77.01   Definitions
   
77.02   Required equipment regulations
   
77.03   Operation requirements
   
77.04   Exceptions
   
77.05   Registration permit
   
77.06   Revocation of permit
   
77.07   Registration permit is not transferrable
 
   
77.99   Penalty
§ 77.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases when used in this chapter shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. As referenced hereafter, shall have the meaning assigned by the
VTCA Transportation Code Section 502.001(7) as it exists or may be amended and
includes a motor vehicle designed by the manufacturer primarily for
transporting persons on a golf course. The term, as used herein, shall include
a specific restriction that a permitted golf cart shall have an attainable
speed of not greater than 25 miles per hour. Specifically excluded from this
definition are those motorized conveyances commonly referred to as ATVs, NEVs,
and the like.
   GOLF CART REGISTRATION PERMIT. A privilege granted upon compliance with the
terms of this chapter to legally operate a golf cart upon a public highway or
parking area within the boundaries of the city for the term that the permit was
issued.
   GOLF CART REGISTRATION PERMIT DECAL. A certificate for attachment to a golf
cart identifying the golf cart as permitted by the city and giving an
expiration date.
   OPERATOR. The person operating and having physical control over the golf
cart. An OPERATOR must carry a valid state driver's license.
   OWNER. Shall have the meaning assigned by the Tex. Trans. Code § 502.001 and
shall mean the person who has legal title to the golf cart, has the legal right
of possession of the golf cart, or has the legal right of control of it.
   PUBLIC HIGHWAY. Shall have the meaning assigned by the Tex. Trans. Code §
502.001(18) as it exists or may be amended, and includes a road, street, way,
thoroughfare or bridge:
      (1)   That is in the state,
      (2)   That is for use of vehicles,
      (3)   That is not privately owned or controlled, and
      (4)   Over which the state has legislative jurisdiction under its police
power.
   UTILITY VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is not a golf cart, as defined in Tex.
Trans. Code § 502.001(7), or a lawn mower, and is:
      (1)   Equipped with side by side seats for the use of the operator and
passenger.
      (2)   Designed to propel itself with at least four tires in contact with
the ground.
      (3)   Designed by the manufacturer for off highway use only.
      (4)   Designed by the manufacturer primarily for utility work and not for
recreational purposes.
(Ord. 101-20, passed 2-18-20; Am. Ord. 104-21, passed 9-21-21)
§ 77.02 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts and utility vehicles shall display a 'slow moving vehicle'
emblem that has a reflective surface designed to be clearly visible in daylight
and at night from the light of standard automobile headlamps at a distance of
at least 500 feet (as provided for in §§ 551.404 and 547.703, Tex. Trans. Code,
and shall be mounted base down on the rear of the vehicle at a height of three
to five feet above the road surface and shall be maintained in a clean,
reflective condition.
   (B)   Golf carts and utility vehicles shall be equipped with front and rear
turn signal lamps and rear view exterior mirror mounted on the driver's side of
the vehicle and either an exterior rear view mirror mounted on the passenger
side of the vehicle or an interior rear view mirror, a parking brake and a
vehicle identification number.
   (C)   Golf carts utility vehicles shall be equipped with two head lamps, two
tail lamps and one red reflector on each side as far to the rear as practicable
or red and white reflective tape one inch width parallel with the lower portion
of the golf cart.
   (D)   Every golf cart and utility vehicle powered by gasoline shall at all
times be equipped with an exhaust system in good working order and shall comply
with all state, federal and city regulations.
(Ord. 101-20, passed 2-18-20; Am. Ord. 104-21, passed 9-21-21)
§ 77.03 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All operators of golf carts and utility vehicles shall be licensed to
operate a motor vehicle as provided by the Tex. Trans. Code and shall carry a
valid state driver's license while operating the golf cart.
   (B)   All operators of golf carts and utility vehicles shall abide by all
traffic regulations applicable to vehicular traffic when using any public
roadway in the city, including proof of financial responsibility (vehicle
insurance), the use of seat belts and the prohibition of alcohol open
containers.
   (C)   Golf carts and utility vehicles shall not be operated on public
sidewalks at any time.
   (D)   Golf carts and utility vehicles may only be operated upon a public
street with a posted speed limit of not more than 30 miles per hour unless
otherwise restricted. Golf carts and utility vehicles will not be allowed to
operate on a state highway, specifically FM 1459 and FM 524, unless crossing at
a controlled intersection or permitted functions such as parades. Golf carts
and utility vehicles will not be allowed to operate on CR 332 except between
the Texas Avenue and Camellia Street intersections and between the Azalea
Street and Forest Park Court Street intersections.
   (E)   A golf cart or utility vehicle may cross a street or highway with a
posted speed limit of more than 30 miles per hour if such crossing occurs at an
intersection, such crossing is perpendicular to the street or highway with a
posted speed limit of more than 25 miles per hour, and such crossing is
controlled by stop lights.
   (F)   The operator of a golf cart or utility vehicle on a public street may
cross a multi lane or a county or state route only at a signalized
intersection.
   (G)   All golf carts and utility vehicles are entitled to a full use of a
lane on a public street and no motor vehicle shall be operated in such a manner
as to deprive any golf cart of the full use of the lane.
   (H)   The operator of a golf cart or utility vehicle shall not overtake or
pass in the same lane occupied by the vehicle being overtaken.
   (I)   No operator shall operate a golf cart or utility vehicle between lanes
of traffic or between adjacent lines of rows of vehicles.
   (J)   Golf carts and utility vehicles shall move to the right and yield
right-of-way to faster moving vehicles.
   (K)   Golf carts and utility vehicles are prohibited from towing any other
device or vehicles, including but not limited to skateboards, scooters,
trailers, boats and jet skis.
   (L)   The operator and every occupant of a golf cart or utility vehicle
shall be limited to the seating capacity as designed by the manufacturer and
all occupants shall remain seated in a seat designed to hold passengers while
the golf cart is in motion.
   (M)   Children under the age of five years may not ride on a golf cart or
utility vehicle unless they are in child restraints required by law for motor
vehicles.
(Ord. 101-20, passed 2-18-20; Am. Ord. 104-21, passed 9-21-21)
§ 77.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts and utility vehicles owned and/or operated for official
government purposes by the city or any other governmental entity are exempt
from regulation by this code.
   (B)   Golf carts and utility vehicles used while evacuating persons during a
declared emergency are exempt from regulation by this code during the declared
emergency and for 72 hours after the emergency unless otherwise ordered by the
city.
(Ord. 101-20, passed 2-18-20; Am. Ord. 104-21, passed 9-21-21)
§ 77.05 REGISTRATION PERMIT.
   Before any golf cart or utility vehicle may be operated on the streets and
highways of the city, it must be registered with and provided a permit by the
Police Department of the city. The city registration permit process includes
the following:
   (A)   The applicant shall complete the city supplied registration permit
application which shall contain the:
      (1)   Name and physical and mailing address of the applicant owner;
      (2)   Location where the vehicle is regularly stored overnight;
      (3)   Model, make and golf cart or utility vehicle identification number;
      (4)   Current driver's license information of the owner;
      (5)   A statement that the applicant has been furnished a copy of these
regulations and that he or she agrees to comply with all conditions contained
in this chapter and to any local, state or federal laws governing the use of
golf carts and utility vehicles;
      (6)   A statement that the registration permit holder and any user shall
indemnify and hold harmless the city for any and all civil liability associated
with the registration and that the permit holder and user waive any and all
rights to sue or allow subrogation by the insurance company; and
      (7)   Any other information that the city may reasonably require.
   (B)   The registration permit application shall be:
      (1)   Accompanied by the permit fee of $50 for the first time applicants
and $50 for annual renewals thereafter to defray administrative and inspection
costs.
      (2)   Accompanied by proof of financial responsibility consistent with
the minimum requirements of the Tex. Trans. Code for the operation of motor
vehicles. A copy of the insurance shall be attached to the application.
      (3)   Accompanied by a copy of the applicant's state driver's license.
      (4)   Signed by the applicant/owner.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the completed application and permit fee, a member of
the Police Department shall make arrangements to inspect the golf cart or
utility vehicle for adherence to this chapter.
   (D)   When the inspector has approved the vehicle, the annual permit decal
shall be issued to the owner. The decal shall be immediately affixed to the
front panel of the driver's side of the golf cart or utility vehicle so as to
be clearly visible.
   (E)   The registration permit shall be effective for one year from the date
of issuance or until such time as revoked for noncompliance or when the golf
cart or utility vehicle is transferred to a new owner.
(Ord. 101-20, passed 2-18-20; Am. Ord. 104-21, passed 9-21-21)
§ 77.06 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The registration permit may be revoked if:
   (A)   The owner or operator of the golf cart or utility vehicle fails to
abide by the rules and regulations of this chapter, including failure to
maintain liability insurance.
   (B)   The owner of or driver of the golf cart or utility vehicle fails to
abide by the traffic laws and/or operates the golf cart or utility vehicle in
an unauthorized area.
(Ord. 101-20, passed 2-18-20; Am. Ord. 104-21, passed 9-21-21)
§ 77.07 REGISTRATION PERMIT IS NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   The city registration permit is not transferrable. Upon transfer of
ownership to another person who intends to operate the golf cart or utility
vehicle in the city, the new owner must register the golf cart or utility
vehicle in his or her name and pay the required permit fee as outlined in this
chapter.
(Ord. 101-20, passed 2-18-20; Am. Ord. 104-21, passed 9-21-21)
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount of not more
than $500 per offense. Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 101-20, passed 2-18-20; Am. Ord. 104-21, passed 9-21-21)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   JUNKED VEHICLES
         
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
         
93.   FIREWORKS
         
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
95.   ANIMALS
         
96.   RESERVED
         
97.   SMOKING IN PUBLIC FACILITIES
         
98.   RESTRICTED SMOKING MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS
         
99.   CAMPING IN PUBLIC PARKS
         
100.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Adoption of removal procedure
   
90.02   Definition
   
90.03   Abatement and removal
   
90.04   Notice; procedure
   
90.05   Hearings
§ 90.01 ADOPTION OF REMOVAL PROCEDURE.
   The city hereby adopts procedures for the abatement and removal, from
private and public property or a public right-of-way, of a junked vehicle or
part of a junked vehicle as a public nuisance, in conformity with the
provisions of Tex. Trans. Code, §§ 683.071 et seq., as hereafter amended.
(Ord. 107-96, passed 4-16-96)
§ 90.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNKED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle that is self-propelled and inoperable and:
         (a)   Does not have lawfully attached to it:
            1.   An unexpired license plate; and
            2.   A valid motor vehicle inspection certificate.
         (b)   Is wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled or discarded; or
         (c)   Has remained inoperable for more than 45 consecutive days.
      (2)   A JUNKED VEHICLE, as defined herein, is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 107-96, passed 4-16-96)
§ 90.03 ABATEMENT AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The following provisions shall govern the abatement and removal of
junked vehicles.
      (1)   After removal, in accordance with this chapter, a vehicle may not
be reconstructed or made operable.
      (2)   A public hearing, in accordance with this chapter, shall be
required before removal of the public nuisance.
      (3)   A notice, identifying the vehicle or part of the vehicle, be given
to the State Department of Transportation not later than the fifth day after
the date of removal by the person authorized to administer the procedures under
this chapter.
      (4)   Procedures for abatement and removal of a public nuisance under
this chapter shall be administered by regularly salaried, full-time employees
of the city, except that any authorized person may remove the nuisance.
      (5)   A person authorized to administer the procedures may enter private
property to examine a public nuisance, to obtain information to identify the
nuisance and to remove or direct the removal of the nuisance.
      (6)   The State Department of Transportation is instructed to immediately
cancel the certificate of title issued for the vehicle, upon receipt of notice
of removal pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In accordance with the provisions of this chapter, a junked vehicle,
including a part of a junked vehicle, may be removed to a scrap yard, a motor
vehicle demolisher or a suitable site operated by a municipality or county.
Final disposition of a junked vehicle, removed in accordance with this chapter,
may be made in accordance with the provisions of Tex. Trans. Code, § 683.078.
(Ord. 107-96, passed 4-16-96)
§ 90.04 NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon learning that a junked vehicle is or may be a public nuisance
under the provisions of this chapter, a person authorized to administer the
procedures, shall provide not less than ten days notice of the nature of the
nuisance, which shall be sent by certified mail, with a five-day return
requested, to:
      (1)   The last known registered owner of the nuisance;
      (2)   Each lienholder of record of the nuisance; and
      (3)   The owner or occupant of:
         (a)   The property on which the nuisance is located; or
         (b)   If the nuisance is located on a public right-of-way, the
property adjacent to the right-of- way.
   (B)   The notice shall state that:
      (1)   The nuisance must be abated and removed not later than the tenth
day after the date on which the notice was mailed; and
      (2)   Any request for hearing must be made before the ten-day period
expires.
   (C)   If the post office address of the last known registered owner of the
nuisance is unknown, notice may be placed on the nuisance or, if the owner is
located, hand delivered.
   (D)   If the notice is returned undelivered, action to abate the nuisance
shall be continued to a date not earlier than the eleventh day after the date
of the return.
(Ord. 107-96, passed 4-16-96)
§ 90.05 HEARINGS.
   Hearings conducted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be held
by the City Council or by an official designated by the City Council to conduct
the hearings. If a hearing is requested by the owner or occupant of the
property on which the nuisance is located, or the owner of occupant of the
property adjacent to the right-of-way, if the nuisance is located on a public
right-of-way, the hearing shall be held not earlier than the eleventh day after
the date of the service of the notice. At any hearing held pursuant to this
chapter, the junked vehicle is presumed, unless demonstrated otherwise by the
owner, to be inoperable. If the information is available at the location of the
nuisance, a resolution or order requiring rival of the nuisance must include
the vehicle’s description, vehicle identification number and license plate
number.
(Ord. 107-96, passed 4-16-96)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalk Construction
   
91.01   Building code amended
   
91.02   Required platting
   
91.03   Minimum acceptable standards
   
91.04   Permit
Overweight Trucks
   
91.10   Definitions
   
91.11   Load limits
   
91.12   Oversize/overweight permit
   
91.13   Truck routes
   
91.14   Loading and unloading
   
91.15   Exceptions
   
91.16   Enforcement; weighing
Civil Work
   
91.30   Permits
   
91.31   Enforcement
Utility Use of Right-of-Way
   
91.40   Utility companies using city right-of-way
   
91.41   Right-of-way permit procedures
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Delivery trucks, see §§
71.40 et seq.
   Permit fees, see §
38.01
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 BUILDING CODE AMENDED.
   The International Building Code which has been officially adopted as the
building code for the city shall be and is hereby amended as set out in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 103-01, passed 5-15-01)
§ 91.02 REQUIRED PLATTING.
   Sidewalks shall be required for any new construction in any new subdivision
platted after the date of this subchapter. The sidewalk shall be placed
adjacent to the front property line of each lot or tract in the subdivision and
it shall be required to tie in uniformly with sidewalks or future sidewalks on
adjacent lots or tracts in the subdivision.
(Ord. 103-01, passed 5-15-01)
§ 91.03 MINIMUM ACCEPTABLE STANDARDS.
   The minimum acceptable standards for sidewalks constructed as required by
this subchapter shall be as follows:
   (A)   Width: four feet.
   (B)   Length: it shall be placed along the entire length of developed street
frontage on both open ditch and curb and gutter sections.
   (C)   Reinforcing:
      (1)   Material: open hearth new billet steel.
      (2)   Yield strength: 60,000 pounds per square inch minimum.
      (3)   Splices: 24 bar diameters.
      (4)   Bar size and spacing: No. 3 bars at 18-inch centers, each way.
      (5)   Bar support: metal or plastic “chairs” shall be used to hold bars
in position during placement of concrete.
   (D)   Concrete mixture:
      (1)   Flexural strength: 650 pounds per square inch minimum modulus of
rupture at 28 days (American Society of Testing and Materials, C-78, 3d point
loading).
      (2)   Slump: four inches maximum.
      (3)   Cement factor: five bags per cubic yard, minimum.
   (E)   Cement: Type I (normal) Portland cement, or with engineer’s approval,
Type III (high early strength).
   (F)   Aggregate: course and fine aggregate shall meet the requirements of
State Highway Department Standard Specification Item 360 for concrete pavement.
   (G)   Jointing:
      (1)   Depth of contraction joints: one-fourth of slab thickness.
      (2)   Transverse spacing: 20 feet.
      (3)   Expansion joints: at intersections.
      (4)   Wood joints: Sound Heart Redwood.
      (5)   Joint seal: ASTM 0920, Type S, Grade P or NS.
   (H)   Curing: curing method shall retain at least 97% of moisture at 24
hours, at least 95% at three days and at least 91% at seven days. American
Society of Testing and Materials Procedure C-5.
   (I)   Tests: flexural strength, three molds per 200 linear feet
   (J)   Placement: concrete shall not be placed on frozen subgrade; when air
temperature is 38°F or below; when air temperature is below 42°F declining;
when finishing cannot be completed during natural daylight.
   (K)   ADA requirements: at the junction of the sidewalk with each driveway
and street, the sidewalk must be transitioned to meet any requirements of the
Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA).
(Ord. 103-01, passed 5-15-01)
§ 91.04 PERMIT.
   A permit shall be required prior to the construction of each sidewalk
required by this subchapter. A fee as set in the city fee schedule shall be
charged for each sidewalk inspection permit.
(Ord. 103-01, passed 5-15-01; Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21)
OVERWEIGHT TRUCKS
§ 91.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Sweeny, Texas.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   TRUCK. Any vehicle designed or operated for the transportation of property,
and whose payload rating is over one ton.
(Ord. 105-03, passed 4-15-03)
§ 91.11 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any truck on any public
street or right-of-way in the city, other than on state highways, which has a
gross weight in excess of 50,000 pounds unless permitted by the city to do so.
In the event a permit is required, an indemnity bond may be required to be
posted with the city to cover possible damage to its streets, bridges, culverts
or drainage easements, which may be damaged by the moving of said excessive
weight loads over and along these streets.
   (B)   The indemnity bond of no less than $50,000 shall remain in force and
effect for 90 days from the initial execution date of the permit. The amount of
the bond shall be determined by guidelines established by the City Manager with
reasonable consideration of the type of vehicle, the amount of excess weight,
the distance to be traveled on the streets and the condition of the streets to
be traveled.
(Ord. 105-03, passed 4-15-03)
§ 91.12 OVERSIZE/OVERWEIGHT PERMIT.
   A permit may be issued under the direction of the City Manager or his or her
designee for the travel of trucks over city streets within the city with loads
in excess of the load limits provided in §
91.11, but only when it is impossible or impractical to reduce the weight of
the load or use a truck capable of hauling the load within the prescribed
limit. Such permit shall be issued for a maximum period of 90 days. The City
Manager shall determine route of travel of said truck and the amount of the
bond, if any, but the amount shall not be less than $50,000. The permit shall
specify the date of the trip, the license plate number of the truck and the
route of travel. A permit fee as set by the fee schedule for the issuance of
the permit shall be paid to the city by the applicant prior to issuance.
(Ord. 105-03, passed 4-15-03; Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21)
§ 91.13 TRUCK ROUTES.
   All trucks shall confine their travel within the city to the designated
"truck route."
(Ord. 105-03, passed 4-15-03)
Cross-reference:
   Truck routes, see
Chapter 75
§ 91.14 LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   In the event that a truck must completely or partially load and/or unload at
a point which does not lie on a designated truck route, the truck may proceed
to and from such points of loading and/or unloading, providing that the truck
follows the shortest route from a designated truck route to and from each point
of loading or unloading or otherwise as may be specified by the City Manager.
(Ord. 105-03, passed 4-15-03)
§ 91.15 EXCEPTIONS.
   This section shall not prohibit:
   (A)   The operation of emergency vehicles upon any street in the city;
   (B)   The operation of trucks owned or operated by the city, or contracted
by the city, upon any street in the city; or
   (C)   The operator of any tractor by a resident in transit between his or
her home and place of employment.
(Ord. 105-03, passed 4-15-03)
§ 91.16 ENFORCEMENT; WEIGHING.
   The city shall keep and maintain accurate maps setting out truck routes
andstreets upon which truck traffic is permitted. The maps shall be kept on
file at the City Hall and Police Department and shall be made available to the
public. The Chief of Police shall have the authority to require any person
driving or in control of a truck to proceed to any public or private scale
available for the purpose of weighing and determining whether this subchapter
has been complied with. Upon such weighing, if it is determined that the truck
so weighed is in excess of the load limit, then the cost of such weighing shall
be immediately due and payable by the operator of such truck and such truck may
be lawfully detained by the Police Department until such charge has been paid.
In the event that the weight of such truck is not in excess of the load limit,
any charges for weighing shall be paid by the city. Any charge for weighing
under the terms of this subchapter shall be in addition to any fine imposed for
a violation of its provisions.
(Ord. 105-03, passed 4-15-03)
CIVIL WORK
§ 91.30 PERMITS.
   (A)   Prior to the pouring or construction of any civil work, driveways,
parking areas or other flatwork, whether new, altered, modified, or re-
constructed, the owner of the property, builder, general contractor or
individual or company completing the construction shall be required to obtain a
permit. Except as provided in this section, all civil work, including
modifications to existing civil work, is required to obtain an approved permit
for construction. Compliance with this subchapter includes a site plan
including footages notated of proposed construction, all existing and proposed
drainage structures on site and mitigation, a survey of the property and
drainage and/or traffic studies as indicated below. It is provided however,
that no permit shall be required for work done by a resident on his residential
property if the project is under 1,000 square feet in size.
   (B)   No person shall construct, reconstruct, repair or alter any parking
space or complete any ground civil/flatwork to include dirt moving, spreading
caliche, asphalting or concreting parking areas of over 50% of the property for
said construction without engineering and Drainage District approvals.
   (C)   If necessary for flood prevention, the City Manager may require a
drainage study that can prove no negative impact on the floodplain or
neighboring properties will be affected in completing the proposed and applied
for project.
      (1)   Any civil/flatwork/driveway/new build containing civil work over
1,000 square feet is required to have a drainage study showing drainage
calculations and/or a runoff study proving no adverse effects of the proposed
or remediation for the impervious runoff. All flood assessments will be
reviewed by City Engineers and the Brazoria County Drainage District.
      (2)   If the property is located in a flood prone area or flood zone, a
drainage study with the above information will be required for permit.
   (D)   (1)   Prior to the issuance of the permit the Building Official shall
check locations, confirm the drawing, and confirm the survey submitted as
required upon application for permit.
      (2)   Any construction may be subject to submitting a traffic study at
the discretion of the City Manager due to obstruction of views and/or safety
concerns.
   (E)   Any studies required shall be completed at the applicants expense.
   (F)   All civil/flatwork, driveways, parking areas, construction, and the
like must adhere to the Zoning Ordinance,
Chapter 155, and meet the minimum yard setbacks as the principal building.
   (G)   Any construction on a TxDot roadway (FM 1459, 2nd Street, FM 524, Main
Street) being constructed, modified, repaired, or altered in any way must
submit a permit approved by the Texas Department of Transportation prior to
issuance of a driveway access permit from the city.
   (H)   The city may require the property owner to replace and/or enlarge
existing culverts as needed prior to issuing driveway access permits.
   (I)   The contractor or property owner is required to request line locates
prior to construction and within the guidelines set forth by Texas 811. In
addition, if there are water or sewer lines located under where the driveway or
flatwork will be located, then the owner, or applicant, shall be required to
install expansion joints. The city shall require all slabs to meet city code
requirements.
   (J)   The master fee schedule will reflect current civil/flatwork fees to
include driveway permits. Said permits will expire six months from issuance
date. Any modifications from the issued permit must be approved by the Director
of Public Works and/or City Manager.
   (K)   Responsibility of city. If a permit is obtained for construction over
city utilities, then if the city has to break apart the driveway because of a
leak or to repair said lines, the city will not be responsible for repairing
the driveway or other flatwork into the condition it was in prior to the city
repairs. The city will only cover with sand and/or caliche as needed to cover
said repair/replacement. The owner assumes all responsibility if completing
construction over city utilities.
(Ord. 108-22, passed 6-21-22)
§ 91.31 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city shall not allow any deviation from the requirements of this
subchapter that either results in detriment to the public good or impairs the
desirable general development and operation of the street in accordance with
sound planning principles and policies.
   (B)   Variance requests must be submitted to the City Council for approval,
approval with modifications or denial. The City Engineer may also be consulted
if deemed necessary.
   (C)   The City of Sweeny shall be responsible for enforcing this subchapter
and assessing and collecting a fee for each driveway or civil/flatwork permit
as laid out in the fee schedule of the City of Sweeny. In the event that a
driveway or other flatwork is poured or constructed without obtaining a permit,
the City of Sweeny shall assess a fee. The violation of the terms of this
subchapter by any person, firm or corporation is declared to be a misdemeanor
and upon adjudication of guilt, a fine not to exceed the maximum allowable
under state statute shall be assessed against such violator in accordance with
the provisions of this code. Each continuing day of violation shall be deemed a
separate offense for which a separate fine may be assessed. Unless otherwise
specifically set forth in state law as adopted, allegation and evidence of
culpable mental state are not required for the proof of an offense defined by
this subchapter. Should a driveway be constructed in violation of this
subchapter and not voluntarily removed or modified by the owner in accordance
with a notice by the city or a court of law, the city reserves the right to
remove it at the owner's expense. Responsibility of the owner if a permit is
not obtained: if a driveway or other flatwork is poured or constructed without
a permit from the city as required above and if the city has to break apart the
driveway or other flatwork to repair the water or sewer lines under said
driveway or flatwork, the owner of the property shall be responsible for all
costs incurred. The cost of the work by the city referred to above shall be
paid to the City of Sweeny and shall include all costs of the city, including
labor and material. The owner shall contract with the city or someone of his or
her choice for placing the driveway or other flatwork back into the condition
it was in prior to the work by the city. In either event, the owner shall pay
to the city all amounts billed to him or her by the city within 30 days or a
lien will be placed upon his property by the city, or the city may elect to
pursue other collection remedies, or both.
(Ord. 108-22, passed 6-21-22)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
UTILITY USE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 91.40 UTILITY COMPANIES USING CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Utility companies and other users of the rights-of-way of the City of
Sweeny, Texas, must abide by the city’s ordinances and the rules and
regulations established in this subchapter prior to performing any work in the
right-of-way.
(Ord. 109-22, passed 7-25-22; Ord. 25-106, passed 5-20-25)
§ 91.41 RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All right-of-way users, other than certified telecommunications
providers, shall complete and submit a right-of-way permit application (a copy
of which is attached as an exhibit to Ord. 109-22). In addition, the permit
applicant must provide proof of liability insurance coverage in the amount of
$300,000 with the City of Sweeny being listed as an additional insured. A
certified telecommunications provider shall meet the requirements established
in Tex. Local Gov't Code Chapter 283 in lieu of this division. If the
application contains a request for lane closures, the applicant must also
furnish a traffic control plan.
   (B)   In addition to the submittal of a completed application, applicants
who are applying for a permit to perform work for franchised utilities must pay
a permit fee as set in the fee schedule to the city. Applicants who are
applying to perform work for non-franchised utilities shall be required to pay
a minimum fee as set in the fee schedule. All permit fees required to be paid
by this subchapter shall be non-refundable.
   (C)   Prior to beginning work in the city’s right-of-way, the applicant must
have a preconstruction meeting with city staff that includes staff members from
Public Works, and possibly the City Engineer. Pre-construction meetings need to
be requested in writing by emailing the city staff.
   (D)   Construction/site plans in accordance with accepted industry standards
must be included with the permit application. Plans must be made accordingly
for water needed during construction as the City of Sweeny does not sell bulk
water.
   (E)   No person shall perform any construction or installation of structures
of facilities in the rights-of-way without notifying the city at least five
working days prior to the commencement of the project or as approved by the
City Manager or City Manager designee. In all cases where plan review is
required and in all major projects, the notification must be provided at least
30 days prior to commencement of the project. For purposes of this section,
MAJOR PROJECTS shall mean any construction that requires a pavement cut of a
length of 300 linear feet or greater within any single street or alley.
Notification will be required in the name of the person who will own the
facilities to be constructed. This notification must be completed and signed by
a representative of the owner of the facilities to be constructed. An exception
to the notification requirements stated herein is construction, repair,
maintenance or installation of facilities necessary to install or restore
service to a customer’s property or to address a public health or safety
emergency.
   (F)   It is provided that calling 8-1-1 to locate utilities is not
sufficient notification. The right-of-way user MUST contact Sweeny Public Works
and schedule utility location for the site. Registered users working in the
right-of-way are responsible for obtaining line locations for all affected
utilities ad verifying prior to any excavation or boring. An exception to the
notification requirements stated herein is construction, repair, maintenance or
installation of facilities necessary to install or restore service to a
customer’s property or to address a public health or safety emergency.
   (G)   The contractor performing the work described in this subchapter is
prohibited from working between the hours of 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. on
weekdays. No work is permitted on Saturdays or Sundays or on any municipal
holidays. The City Manager or the Public Works Department reserve the right to
shorten work hours and/or modify work hours based on staffing and response
capacity.
   (H)   It is the contractor’s responsibility to contact and obtain permits
from any entity other than the city which requires additional permitting within
rights-of-way located in the city. For example, the Texas Department of
Transportation is such an entity independent from the city which requires
permits to operate with State of Texas rights-of-way. The city grants right-of-
way permits only on City of Sweeny rights-of-way.
(Ord. 109-22, passed 7-25-22; Ord. 25-106, passed 5-20-25)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   An person violating any provision of §§
91.10 et seq. shall be found guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   A violation of any of the terms of §§
91.40 et seq. is declared a Class C misdemeanor. Any person firm or corporation
who violates a term of §§
91.40 et seq. shall upon adjudication be adjudged guilty. A maximum fine of
$500 shall be assessed against such violator in accordance with §§
91.40 et seq. Each day of continuing day of violation shall be deemed a
separate offense for which a separate fine may be imposed.
(Ord. 105-03, passed 4-15-03; Ord. 109-22, passed 7-25-22)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Outdoor burning of waste; combustible material
   
92.02   Obstructions, blockage and the like; drainage
   
92.03   Unsightly and objectionable matter
   
92.04   Ditches
   
92.05   Maintenance of public property adjacent to owner’s property
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks, see
Chapter 93
   Garbage, see
Chapter 51
§ 92.01 OUTDOOR BURNING OF WASTE; COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, to knowingly and
intentionally burn outdoors within the corporate city limits, any waste or any
combustible material in violation of any of the rules and regulations of the
State Natural Resource Conservation Commission, as the rules and regulations
are adopted by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of the Clean Air Act
of the state.
(Ord. 107-92, passed 7-21-92)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.02 OBSTRUCTIONS, BLOCKAGE AND THE LIKE; DRAINAGE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
obstruct, divert, block or interfere with the natural drainage within the city
limits or to allow any obstruction, diversion, blockage or interference to
remain on the premises, in a manner as to impair the natural drainage within
the city.
      (2)   This section, however, shall not apply to any operation of the city
in improving the drainage within the city.
   (B)   Any obstruction, blockage, diversion or interference with the natural
drainage within the city is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 223, passed 3-16-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.03 UNSIGHTLY AND OBJECTIONABLE MATTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning real
property within the city limits to permit weeds, rubbish, brush or other
objectionable, unsightly or objectionable matter of whatever nature to grow, be
placed upon, remain upon the person’s, firm’s or corporation’s real property
situated within the city limits.
   (B)   If the owner of property in the municipality does not comply with §
92.03(A) within seven days of notice of a violation, the City of Sweeny may:
      (1)   Do the work or make the improvements required; and
      (2)   Pay for the work done or improvements made and charge the expenses
to the owner of the property.
   (C)   The notice must be given:
      (1)   Personally to the owner in writing;
      (2)   By letter addressed to the owner at the owner's address as recorded
in the appraisal district records of the appraisal district in which the
property is located; or
      (3)   If personal service cannot be obtained:
         (a)   By publication at least once;
         (b)   By posting the notice on or near the front door of each building
on the property to which the violation relates; or
         (c)   By posting the notice on a placard attached to a stake driven
into the ground on the property to which the violation relates.
   (D)   If the city mails a notice to a property owner in accordance with
division (C) and the United States Postal Service returns the notice as
“refused” or “unclaimed,” the validity of the notice is not affected, and the
notice is considered as delivered.
   (E)   In a notice provided under this section, the city may inform the owner
by regular mail and a posting on the property, or by personally delivering the
notice, that if the owner commits another violation of the same kind or nature
that poses a danger to the public health and safety on or before the first
anniversary of the date of the notice, the city, without further notice, may
correct the violation at the owner’s expense and assess the expense against the
property. If a violation covered by a notice under this section occurs within
the one-year period, and the city has not been informed in writing by the owner
of a change in ownership, the city may take any action permitted by §
92.03 and assess its expense as provided by this section.
   (F)   The city may assess expenses incurred under §
92.03(B) against the real estate on which the work is done or improvements
made, in the following manner:
      (1)   To obtain a lien against the property, the City Manager or his or
her designated official must file a statement of expenses with the County Clerk
of Brazoria County, Texas. The lien statement must state the name of the owner,
if known, and the legal description of the property. The lien attaches upon the
filing of the lien statement with the County Clerk.
      (2)   The lien obtained by the city is security for the expenditures made
and interest accrues at the rate of 10% on the amount due from the date of
payment by the city.
      (3)   The lien is inferior only to tax liens and liens for street
improvements.
      (4)   The city may bring suit for foreclosure in the name of the city to
recover the expenditures and interest due. The statement of expenses or a
certified copy of the statement is prima facie proof of the expenses incurred
by the city in doing the work of making the improvements.
      (5)   The city may foreclose a lien on property under this section in a
proceeding relating to the property brought under Texas Tax Code, Chapter 33.
   (G)   The city may abate, without notice, weeds that have grown higher than
48 inches and are an immediate danger to the health, life or safety of any
person. Not later than the tenth day after the date the city abates weeds under
this section, the city shall give notice to the property owner in the manner
required by §
92.03(C). The notice shall contain:
      (1)   An identification, which is not required to be a legal description,
of the property;
      (2)   A description of the violations of this section that occurred on
the property;
      (3)   A statement that the city abated the weeds; and
      (4)   Notice of the property owner’s right to request an administrative
hearing about the city's abatement of the weeds. The city shall conduct an
administrative hearing on the abatement of weeds under this section if, not
later than the thirtieth day after the date the abatement of the weeds, the
property owner files with the city a written request for a hearing. An
administrative hearing conducted under this section shall be conducted not
later than the twentieth day after the date a request for a hearing is filed.
The owner may testify or present any witnesses or written information relating
to the city’s abatement of the weeds. The city may assess expenses and create
liens under this section as provided in §
92.03(F).
(Ord. 136, passed 9-21-65; Am. Ord. 100-07, passed 10-17-06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.04 DITCHES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning
property within the city or any tenant of the owner of the property which abuts
a drainage or street ditch to permit trash, rubbish, debris, tree limbs, scrap
material or any kind of rubble to remain in the drainage ditch or street ditch
in front of their property or to in any manner obstruct or cause to be
obstructed the natural flow of run-off waters in the city.
      (2)   It shall further be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
place trash, rubbish, debris, tree limbs, scrap material or any kind of rubble
in the drainage ditches, including, but not limited to ditches along and beside
streets in the city limits.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
knowingly and intentionally obstruct or cause to be obstructed the drainage
ditches and/or drainage structures in the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to utilize
the trash dumpster or trash receptacle of any other person, fine or corporation
without the consent of the person, firm or corporation either owning or having
the right to control the trash dumpster or trash receptacle.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate the provisions of
this section shall be presumed to have knowingly and intentionally violated the
provisions of the section.
(Ord. 105-93, passed 5-19-92)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.05 MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY ADJACENT TO OWNER’S PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   The owner or person in legal possession of property that is
adjacent to a public roadway or a public easement shall be responsible to keep
the weeds or grass on said property trimmed to a height of 12 inches, and shall
also be responsible to keep the weeds or grass trimmed to a height of 12 inches
on any adjacent public roadway or easement within said roadway or easement up
to the edge of the roadway, including any area within a bar ditch or parkway. A
BAR DITCH or PARKWAY is described as the area between the edge of the roadway
and the property owner's property line or fence, if any, or the side of the bar
ditch furthest from the traveled roadway and the area between a public sidewalk
and public street. The duty on the owner or possessor of property to keep the
grass trimmed as described herein shall apply to any portion of the owner's or
possessor's property:
         (a)   That is within 150 feet of any building or structure;
         (b)   That is within 150 feet of any adjacent developed property;
         (c)   That is within 150 feet of a public roadway or sidewalk.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the
vegetation is an agricultural crop, cultivated shrub, flowers or other
decorative ornamental plant under cultivation, or wildflowers, but only until
the time as seeds have matured following the final blooming of the majority of
the plants.
   (B)   In addition to any legally authorized officer within the city, the
city Code Enforcement Officer and/or Building Official shall be authorized to
issue citations pursuant to this section, and pursuant to any building,
construction and related codes adopted by the city.
(Ord. 104-19, passed 11-19-19) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In absence of a penalty being prescribed by the Clean Air Act
aforesaid or by the regulations of the State Natural Resources Conservation
Commission for violations of the rules and regulations and the Act, any person,
firm or corporation who shall knowingly and intentionally violate §
92.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in any sum not
less than $1, nor more than $2,000. Each day a violation shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
92.03 and
92.05 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Sweeny, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $500 for
each violation.
(Ord. 107-92, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. 101-10, passed 11-17-09; Am. Ord. 106-
18, passed 9-4-18)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS
Section
   
93.01   Prohibited activity
§ 93.01 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to store, keep in
possession, manufacture, sell or re-sale, fire, discharge, detonate any form of
fireworks within the corporate city limits.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-20-65)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Zones and Limits; Nuisances
   
94.01   Purpose; adoption of fire zone
   
94.02   Construction; fire-proof material
   
94.03   Hazardous material
   
94.04   Repair of nonconforming buildings and structures
   
94.05   Moving buildings or structures
   
94.06   Condemnation of buildings
   
94.07   Application
   
94.08   Grant of permits; conditions; records
   
94.09   Combustible material; fire hazards
   
94.10   Nuisance; declaration
   
94.11   Gas appliances
Explosives and Flammables; Storage and the Like
   
94.20   Transportation of gasoline, toxics and the like
   
94.21   Above ground storage regulations
Governing Regulations
   
94.30   Adoption of codes
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks, see
Chapter 93
FIRE ZONES AND LIMITS; NUISANCES
§ 94.01 PURPOSE; ADOPTION OF FIRE ZONE.
   The City Council hereby declares and determines that the calamities of fire
are dangerous to the safety and welfare of citizens of the city and, in order
to guard against the calamities of fires, it shall be unlawful to build,
construct or erect any building or other structure or to move any building or
other structure into the area described in Exhibit “A,” attached to Ord. 88 of
the city, and made a part hereof by reference as if fully copied herein, that
does not conform to the fire proof requirements of this subchapter. The area of
the city, described in Exhibit “A” mentioned above, is hereby deemed to be the
fire zone of the city.
(Ord. 88, passed 3-21-61)
§ 94.02 CONSTRUCTION; FIRE-PROOF MATERIAL.
   Every building or other structure hereafter erected within the Fire Zone
shall be constructed of fire- proof material having a fire resistance equal to
not less than the fire resistance of brick or stone. The non-support interior
walls and partitions may be constructed of a material that is not fire-proof.
The roof of every building or other structure hereafter erected within the Fire
Zone must be constructed of a fire- proof material having a greater fire
resistance than wood or plank. Built up roofs will be permitted so long as the
beams and supports therefor have the equivalent fire resistance of brick or
stone.
(Ord. 88, passed 3-21-61)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.03 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.
   (A)   Corrugated iron is hereby declared to be hazardous, as is sheet metal
of any type, and the same shall not be used in the construction or repair of
any building within the city. The use of the material for repairs may be
permitted in cases provided for in §
94.04(A).
   (B)   Metal structures will be permitted within the Fire Zone whenever a
registered professional engineer or architect, duly licensed under the laws of
the state, certifies that the building will withstand the wind load factor for
metallic buildings, which has been established by the adopted Building Code for
the city.
   (C)   Any person desiring to make repairs to any metal structure shall
comply with provisions of §
94.04(A) before initiating any repair.
(Ord. 88, passed 3-21-61; Am. Ord. 152, passed 4-18-67; Am. Ord. 245, passed 1-
12-78)
§ 94.04 REPAIR OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as to the roof, as provided in division (B) below, no
frame, wooden or corrugated axon or sheet metal building, shed or other
structure of any kind heretofore constructed within the Fire Zone aforesaid
shall be repaired in any manner unless and until the plans for the proposed
repair work shall have been first submitted to the City Council, together with
an accurate estimate of the cost of the work and an accurate appraisal of the
then value of the building or structure upon which the repair is proposed of be
made. Upon receipt of the plans, accurate estimate of cost and accurate
appraisal aforesaid, the City Council shall hold a hearing to determine whether
or not the work shall be permitted within the Fire Zone of the city.
      (2)   If, in the opinion of the City Council on the hearing, the cost of
the work equals or exceeds one-fourth of the then value of the building or
structure, not taking into consideration the then value of any repair
previously authorized by the City Council, as fixed by the Council, the Council
shall enter an order prohibiting the repair as hazardous from the standpoint of
fire, and it shall then be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
proceed with the repair or to cause the same to be done.
      (3)   It is likewise unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
commence any repair without first submitting the plans of the repair, showing
the material to be used, accurate estimate of the cost of the repair and
accurate appraisement of the then value of the property to be repaired to the
City Council. The City Council shall have authority to appoint an inspector or
inspectors and to employ contractors or other experts to assist it in arriving
at the value of the improvements and the value of the building or structure.
      (4)   No repair of, extension on, nor an addition to, any building or
structure within the Fire Zone of the city shall be made, except upon
application by the owner to the City Council for a permit to make the repair,
extension or addition to the building or structure, and no permit shall be
granted in any case unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the City
Council that the proposed extension, repair or addition will not increase the
existing fire hazard nor increase the key fire insurance rate in the Fire Zone.
   (B)   The roof of any frame, wooden or corrugated iron or sheet metal
building, shed or other structure, within the Fire Zone above described, and in
existence at the time of the adoption of this chapter shall not be repaired
with the use of any kind of material, except that described in
§ 94.02. In the event that the repair does not exceed 25% of the area of the
roofs, then, in that event the City Council may permit the repair with the use
of the same material with which the roof was originally constructed, provided
that the owner of the building, shed or other structure shall file an
application therefor and in filing the application, the procedure provided in
division (A) above shall be followed.
(Ord. 88, passed 3-21-61)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.05 MOVING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful to move any building, shed or structure
into the above described Fire Zone that does not conform to the requirements of
§ 94.02. It is likewise unlawful to move any building, shed or structures or
any part thereof within the Fire Zone which does not conform to the
requirements of
§ 94.02 from one location within the Fire Zone to another location within the
Fire Zone. No building shall be moved into or from one location within the Fire
Zone to another location without first having secured a permit to do so from
the City Council, following the procedure outlined in §
94.04(A).
(Ord. 88, passed 3-21-61)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.06 CONDEMNATION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may, in the interest of prohibiting fire and
for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the city and for the safety and
welfare of the citizens’ property, may condemn any building, shed or structure
within the Fire Zone erected prior to the establishment of the Fire Zone and
composed of a material or materials hereby prohibited after giving ten days
notice to the owner of the building, shed or structure, providing for a hearing
and giving the owner an opportunity to be heard.
      (2)   If, after a hearing, it is the judgment of the City Council that
the building, shed or structure creates a fire hazard and is dangerous to the
safety and welfare of the city and the citizens thereof and their property, the
Council may enter an order condemning the building, shed or structure and order
the same removed and destroyed.
   (B)   The material shall be removed by the owner of the building, shed or
structure within five working days after the order condemning the same. If the
owner fails or refuses to remove same within the five days, then the Council
shall order the same removed outside of the Fire Zone and that the same be sold
to the highest bar after first giving ten days public notice by posting sere in
three public places within the city. In counting the number of days herein, the
day the order is written or notice to first posted shall not be counted for
computation of the minimum times herein specified.
   (C)   The sale shall be had at the City Hall and the material shall be sold
to the highest bidder for cash. From the proceeds of the sale, there shall be
first deducted the cost of removing the materials and the cost of conducting
the sale, including the cost of advertising, and the balance shall be paid over
to the owner. The decision of the City Council condemning the property shall be
final.
(Ord. 88, passed 3-21-61)
§ 94.07 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Before any work on any wall, structure, building or any part thereof,
or any platform, staging, foundation or flooring to be used for standing or
seating purposes is commenced or any building, shed or structure of any kind
heretofore erected can be repaired, altered, raised, moved or removed within
the fire limits, the owner of the property shall make application in writing to
the Building Inspector for a permit to erect a building or to make repairs or
to commence the staging, foundation or flooring, or to alter, repair or add to
any building or other structure, and no building heretofore constructed shall
be repaired, structurally altered or built upon in any manner in violation of
the above and foregoing provisions. It shall not be necessary to make
application for minor repairs, but this provision shall not be construed in the
manner as to include the cutting of any wall, or part thereof, the removal or
cutting of any beam or support, or the change of any exposed structure of the
premises, or any other material change or alteration or improvement without
application for a permit to do so.
   (B)   (1)   The application may be made for the owner by his or her agent,
attorney or employee, or by the owner or by his or her architect or building
contractor, and shall be filed with the Building Inspector and shall fully
state the extent of the repair proposed to be made, the location of the
building proposed to be erected, altered, repaired or added to, together with
the full details as to the class of material proposed to be used in making the
repairs or erection, addition or alteration.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not be held to limit the
provisions of any other section of this chapter, but shall be construed to be
cumulative of any other section of this chapter.
(Ord. 88, passed 3-21-61; Am. Ord. 107-91, passed 4-16-91)
§ 94.08 GRANT OF PERMITS; CONDITIONS; RECORDS.
   (A)   In granting permits for the repair or construction of buildings and
other structures within the Fire Zone, the Council shall have the power to make
the granting of the permit conditioned upon the owner of the building providing
adequate fire extinguisher or other fire-fighting equipment and appliances, and
the repair, alteration or construction of the buildings or other structures as
in the judgment of the Council will render the buildings less hazardous to
fire.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation or
association of persons to place, deposit, stores stack or pile any boxes,
barrels or other discarded wooden packages, old lumber or other materials on
any lot, lots or part thereof within the Fire Zone of the city, as herein
established, provided, however, that any lumber placed within the Fire Zone for
the purpose of immediate use shall be excepted from the terms of this chapter.
   (C)   Any permit issued according to the provisions of this section shall be
good for a term of four months from the date of its issuance, and the City
Secretary shall keep a record of all permits issued. Should a permit expire and
the work authorized thereunder not be completed or started, the owner must
renew his or her application before continuing or starting the work.
(Ord. 88, passed 3-21-61)
§ 94.09 COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL; FIRE HAZARDS.
   (A)   Every building, structure, erection, construction, repairing
rebuilding or other things erected, placed, built, made or moved in violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be and is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance, and the City Council shall, when the same is brought to
their knowledge and attention, cause five days’ notice to be given to the
owner, tenant, lessee or person in possession of the structure or buildings or
the lot or lots upon which the same is built, erected and constructed to show
cause why the structure or buildings should not be abated and removed, and upon
hearing thereof or default of answer to the City Council may cause ten days’
notice to be given to the owner of the structure or building or the lot or lots
on which same stands, to remove same and if the owner of the structure or
building to be removed and abated, refuses to do so, then, in such event, the
City Council shall have the power to cause the building to be removed or the
structure to be removed in any manner deemed most expedient by the City
Council.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall be cumulative of the punishment
of fine herein provided.
(Ord. 88, passed 3-21-61)
§ 94.10 NUISANCE; DECLARATION.
   (A)   The City Council is hereby authorized and empowered to institute any
and all actions and proceedings, either legal or equitable that may be
appropriate or necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
and the same shall be brought in the name of the city.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall be held exclusive and criminal
proceedings authorized by this chapter may be also had.
(Ord. 88, passed 3-21-61)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.11 GAS APPLIANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install or
cause to be installed any natural gas appliance in residential garages unless
all burners and burner ignition devices are located not less than 18 inches
above the garage floor level.
   (B)   Whenever any natural gas appliance is installed in accordance with the
provisions of division (A) above, the natural gas appliance shall be so
located, or so reasonably protected so that the natural gas appliance shall not
be subject to physical damage by a moving motor vehicle or other vehicle.
(Ord. 105-93, passed 12-15-93)
Penalty, see § 10.99
EXPLOSIVES AND FLAMMABLES; STORAGE AND THE LIKE
§ 94.20 TRANSPORTATION OF GASOLINE, TOXICS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any truck that is designed for or used for the
purpose of transporting toxics, corrosives, gasoline, flammable liquids or
other hazardous materials to be parked, stopped or left standing on any private
or public property that is located in a residential use zone (being used for
residential purposes) within the city unless for the purpose of making a
delivery or for emergency repair.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-5-85)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.21 ABOVE GROUND STORAGE REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, their agent(s),
servant(s), or employee(s) to store upon or within any property within the
corporate city limits, any flammable or combustible liquids in an above ground
container except in compliance with the provisions of the International Fire
Code which has been previously adopted in the city, and specifically in §§
5704.2 and 5704.2.9.1 through 5704.2.9.10 thereof.
(Ord. 269, passed 7-3-79; Am. Ord. 101-14, passed 12-17-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.30 ADOPTION OF CODES.
   (A)   The International Fire Code and NFPA Life and Safety Code are hereby
adopted by the City of Sweeny, Texas, by reference as if fully copied herein.
   (B)   When any reference is made within said code to the duties of a certain
official named therein, that designated official of the City of Sweeny, Texas,
who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in said code shall
be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of
said code are concerned.
   (C)   The permit fees are established for inspections by the Fire Marshal
for compliance with the fire prevention code. Fees are referenced on the city's
master fee schedule.
   (D)   All sums received from fire prevention code inspections shall be
placed into the Fire Marshal’s
account for budget and accounting purposes.
(Ord. 111-04, passed 8-17-04; Am. Ord. 103-22, passed 4-19-22)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
Animal Control
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Enforcement; responsibility
   
95.03   Animals running at large
   
95.04   Rabies transmission
   
95.05   Confinement upon suspicion of rabies; method of handling
   
95.06   Nuisance
   
95.07   Keeping certain animals and fowl
   
95.08   Wild animals prohibited
   
95.09   Impounding procedure; fees
   
95.10   Adoption procedure
   
95.11   Sanitary conditions required
   
95.12   Animal waste removal
   
95.13   Horses on sidewalks
Hunting, Molesting and the Like
   
95.25   Bird sanctuary
   
95.26   Prohibited activity
Dangerous Dogs
   
95.40   Dangerous dogs
ANIMAL CONTROL
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANIMAL. Any living creature, including, but not limited to dogs, caws,
horses, birds, fish, mammals, reptiles, insects, fowls and livestock, but does
not include humans beings.
      COMMERCIAL STABLE. A facility where a fee is charged to house, pasture or
rent horses or other livestock.
      LARGE LIVESTOCK. Horses or any member of the domesticated horse family,
including but not limited to mules, donkeys and ponies; and all varieties of
cattle.
      LOCAL RABIES CONTROL OFFICER or POUNDMASTER. Any person designated to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      NUISANCE. Any object, place or condition which constitutes a possible or
probable medium of transmission of disease to or between human beings or any
other object, place or condition which may be specifically declared by law to
be a nuisance.
      OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation having title to any animal or a
person, firm or corporation who has, harbors or keeps or who causes or permits
to be harbored or kept, an animal in his or her care or who permits an animal
to remain on or about his or her premises.
      RUNNING AT LARGE.
         (a)   Not completely confined by a building, wall, fence or other
enclosure of sufficient strength, or construction to restrain the animal
confined thereby, to the premises of the owner. An electronic or invisible
fence shall not be considered a fence or other enclosure of sufficient strength
or construction to restrain the animal confined thereby in compliance with this
section.
         (b)   Not completely restrained by a leash or chain sufficiently
strong to prevent the animal from escaping and which restricts the animal to
the owner's premises in such a manner that it shall not have access to within
ten feet of any sidewalk or entry to the home or any mail box at the home.
         (c)   Not completely restrained by a leash or within an automobile
when away from the premises of the owner.
      SANITARY. Any condition of good order and cleanliness which precludes the
probability of disease transmission.
      SMALL LIVESTOCK. All types of domesticated swine, sheep and goats.
      WILD ANIMAL. Includes, but is not be limited to any poisonous or
dangerous reptile or any other animal which is normally to be found in the wild
state and is normally incapable of being domesticated, and including, but not
limited to skunks, foxes, leopards, panthers, tigers, lions, lynx unless
certified for medical, biological, herpetological or other scientific research
or study.
   (B)   Unless otherwise indicated, the terms employed in this chapter are to
be construed to mean the same thing as contained in the definition thereof in
Webster's Dictionary.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14)
§ 95.02 ENFORCEMENT; RESPONSIBILITY.
   The City Council hereby designates the Chief of Police for the City of
Sweeny as the Rabies Control Authority who shall be responsible for the
enforcement of this chapter and for the impounding of animals and fowl, the
adoption thereof or destruction thereof; and for such other duties required to
enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14; Am. Ord. 25-110, passed 9-16-25)
§ 95.03 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of livestock to allow the livestock
to run at large. Livestock shall be maintained within a fenced area no less
than 100 feet from any dwelling which is not owned by the person, firm or
corporation owning the livestock. Any livestock which is found to be roaming
outside of this restricted area is to be considered running at large.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or having in his
or her possession or control any dog to allow the dog to run at large as that
term is defined in this chapter within the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   Should any owner, keeper or person in possession or control of the dog
permit any dog to run at large as that term is utilized herein, on the first
occasion the person permitting a dog to run at large shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof by a court of competent
jurisdiction, shall be fined in any sum of not less than $1 and not more than
$100. Should any person permit a dog to run at large on two or more occasions,
the person shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof
by a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be fined in any sum of not less
than $1 nor more than $200.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any goose, turkey, duck, chicken
or other domesticated fowl to permit such fowl to run at large, provided
however, ducks and geese and other such fowl shall not be considered at large
if they are located in the area of the "Duck Pond" limited to the area of Elm
Street and Sixth Street. Beside those fowls located at the "Duck Pond" area,
any other such fowl which is found running at large within the corporate limits
of the city shall be impounded by the animal control officer and shall not be
released until the fees and charges established herein have been fully paid.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 RABIES TRANSMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any dog, cat or other domesticated
animal to keep and maintain the animal within the corporate city limits. Dogs
or cats which are under four months of age are exempted from the provisions
hereof until they attain the age of four months.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 CONFINEMENT UPON SUSPICION OF RABIES; METHOD OF HANDLING.
   (A)   Should any person be bitten, scratched or exposed to the rabies virus
by any animal and a complaint thereof be made, the person (owner) responsible
for the animal shall be notified to keep the animal confined and under
observation of a licensed veterinarian or the local rabies control authority
for not less than ten days after the person was bitten and to release the
animal only on written permission of the local rabies control authority or his
or her designated representative.
   (B)   Upon failure to surrender the animal for quarantine will result in
daily citations to the animal owner. Owner will be responsible for any and all
fees.
   (C)   Any person having the control or possession of or responsibility for
any quarantined animal shall immediately notify the local rabies control
authority, animal control officer or police department of the city, if the
animal escapes or becomes or appears to become sick or dies and, in case of
death of the animal while under quarantine, shall immediately surrender the
dead animal to the local animal control authority or animal control officer for
diagnostic purposes.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14)
§ 95.06 NUISANCE.
   (A)   No owner or any animal shall keep an animal within the corporate city
limits under conditions which create a nuisance, as that term is herein
defined.
   (B)   The following shall be considered as public nuisances and to maintain
the nuisance as defined below shall be unlawful:
      (1)   The keeping of any animal, which, by causing frequent or long
continuous barking or other noise shall disturb any person of ordinary
sensibilities in the vicinity;
      (2)   The keeping of any animal in violation of this chapter or in a
manner as to endanger the public health;
      (3)   The keeping of any animal in a manner that animal wastes accumulate
causing flies, foul and offensive odors;
      (4)   The keeping of an animal or animals in a manner that an animal is a
hazard to human beings or other animals;
      (5)   Whenever the animals pens, stables or other enclosures in which the
animal is kept or confined becomes offensive to a person or ordinary
sensitivities by reason of the conditions of the pens, stables or enclosures;
or
      (6)   The keeping of bees in a manner as to deny the lawful use of
properties near the property where the bees are being kept or in a manner as to
endanger personal health and welfare.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.07 KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS AND FOWL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any dog, cat or other
domesticated animal capable of transmitting rabies to human beings or other
animals, to keep, own, possess, harbor or allow said animal to remain on a
premises under the owner’s control, unless the dog, cat or other domesticated
animal, for which a USDA approved vaccine exists, meets the following
requirements:
      (1)   The dog, cat or other domesticated animal has a current, valid
rabies vaccination certificate;
      (2)   The dog, cat or other domesticated animal is wearing a collar or
other harness;
      (3)   A tag showing proof of vaccination is attached to the collar.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or maintain or to
move into or within the corporate city limits any head of livestock, including
but not limited to horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, pigs, goats, sheep, rabbits
and other domesticated wild animals or any fowl including, but not limited to
chickens, ducks, geese and turkeys, except in compliance with the following
provisions of this section.
      (1)   No livestock shall be kept or maintained on any property within the
city limits unless they are completely enclosed in a fenced area no less than
100 feet from any dwelling which is not owned by the person, firm or
corporation so maintaining the livestock. No chickens or other fowl shall be
kept or maintained on property within the city limits unless they are kept in a
fully caged area with a minimum of ten square feet per bird, with no more than
six chickens or other fowl per single family dwelling, and no less than 100
feet from any dwelling not owned by the person, firm or corporation so
maintaining the fowls. The ducks, geese and similar fowl maintained at the
"Duck Pond" area located at Elm Street and Sixth Street are an exception to
this provision.
      (2)   Every area of property upon which any livestock or fowl is proposed
to be kept or maintained shall have or obtain the following minimum area for
each head:
         (a)   Livestock, except goats, sheep or rabbits: two acres of land not
occupied by inhabitable buildings shall be required for the first animal.
         (b)   For each additional animal: two acres of land not occupied by
inhabitable buildings shall be required.
      (3)   Goats and/or sheep: 2,500 square feet of land not occupied by
inhabitable buildings shall be required for each animal.
      (4)   Fowl, chickens, geese, ducks, turkeys, pheasant, peacock, pigeons,
and similar type fowl: 100 square feet of land for each fowl not occupied by
inhabitable buildings.
      (5)   Rabbits and members of the rodent family, parakeet, canary birds,
quail, dove and other similar type fowl: may be exempted from the minimum
requirements concerning square footage, but may not be kept in a manner as to
establish a nuisance, public or private, and may not violate any applicable
city nuisance or land use ordinances.
      (6)   Potbellied pigs shall be allowed within the city if they are less
than 100 pounds in weight and are kept on premises that are completely enclosed
and solidly walled.
   (C)   It is declared to be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
sell, offer for sale, barter or give away as toys, premiums or novelties, baby
chickens, ducklings or other fowl under three weeks of age or rabbits under two
months old unless the manner or method of display is approved by the local
rabies control authority or animal control officer. It is further declared to
be unlawful for any owner to permit any known vicious animal owned, controlled
or managed by him or her to run at large.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14; Am. Ord. 23-110, passed 11-15-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
   Land Usage, see Title XV
§ 95.08 WILD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep, maintain
or harbor any wild animal within the corporate city limits.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.09 IMPOUNDING PROCEDURE; FEES.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation, their agents, servants and employees,
may confine any animal which is in violation of this chapter in a humane manner
until the person, firm or corporation, its agents, servants or employees can
notify the local rabies control authority of the city to come and impound the
animal. When so notified, it shall be the duty of the animal control officer or
local rabies control authority to impound the animal, as herein provided.
      (1)   The local rabies control authority or animal control officer shall
use reasonable effort to contact the owner of the animal which has been
impounded. Final responsibility for locating the animal is that of the animal
owner.
      (2)   The owner may resume possession of any impounded animal upon
payment of all impoundment fees, handling fees and veterinarian bills, if any,
incurred by the animal control officer for the welfare of the animal, and upon
compliance with the vaccination provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Disposition of animals impounded upon the grounds that the animal
has been treated cruelly or inhumanely shall be the decision of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      (4)   Animals shall be impounded at the city pound if possible and
convenient, and if not possible or if inconvenient, at a place as may be
determined by the local rabies control authority.
      (5)   Any animal being held under quarantine or observation for rabies
shall be kept under observation and control until the animal has been released
from quarantine and all fees and costs have been paid.
      (6)   Any animal, except vicious or wild animals, not reclaimed by the
owner may be humanely euthanized after being impounded for 72 hours.
      (7)   Any impounded vicious or wild animal unless there is reason to
believe that it has an owner may be immediately disposed of as may be deemed
appropriate by the local rabies control authority.
      (8)   Any nursing baby animal impounded without the mother, or where the
mother cannot or refuses to provide nutritious milk, may be immediately
euthanized to prevent further suffering.
      (9)   Any impounded dog or cat may be given up for adoption after 72
hours, except those under quarantine. If the rightful owner appears for his or
her dog within 30 days following the adoption, the owner may redeem the animal
by paying the adoptee all documented expenses incurred for the animal.
      (10)   An owner who no longer wishes responsibility for an animal or
believes the animal to be in an ill or injured condition, may sign a written
waiver supplied by the animal control officer or local rabies control authority
allowing the animal to be immediately euthanized in an humane manner, provided
however that no warm-blooded animal that has bitten or scratched a human being
shall be euthanized before the expiration of the ten-day quarantine period.
      (11)   Any impounded animal that appears to be suffering from extreme
injury or illness may be euthanized or given to a non-profit humane
organization for the purpose of veterinary medical care, as determined by the
local rabies control authority.
   (B)   The impounding fees shall be set out in the city's fee schedule, as
amended.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14; Am. Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 95.10 ADOPTION PROCEDURE.
   Any individual may adopt a dog or cat from the city animal shelter or any
other animal which does not have rabies and is not under quarantine upon the
following conditions;
   (A)   The animal has been classified as adoptable by the local rabies
control authority;
   (B)   The prospective person seeking to adopt the animal has proper and
adequate facilities to care for the animal;
   (C)   The prospective person seeking to adopt the animal prior to the animal
being released for adoption causes all necessary vaccinations to be obtained;
   (D)   The prospective person seeking to adopt pays the adoption fee as set
in the city's fee schedule, as amended. Upon payment of this adoption fee all
impoundment fees owed to the city are waived. It is provided, however, animals
less than four months of age shall not be vaccinated for rabies unless the
vaccination is recommended by a licensed veterinarian until the animal attains
the age of four months; and
   (E)   The local rabies control authority may refuse to allow any person to
adopt an animal whenever he or she has good reason to believe:
      (1)   The person would not be able to obtain the proper certificate of
vaccination under the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   The person does not or would not have proper facilities that are
adequate for the animal sought to be adopted in relation to the care of the
particular animal;
      (3)   The person is seeking the animal for the purposes of resale or for
purposes other than ownership thereof;
      (4)   The person would not be a responsible owner; or
      (5)   The particular animal would constitute a hazard to humans or other
animals.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14; Am. Ord. 101-16, passed 7-19-16; Am. Ord. 101-
21, passed 3-16-21)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 95.11 SANITARY CONDITIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner or person in possession of any animal or animals shall keep
yards, pens and enclosures in which animals are confined in a manner so as not
to give off odors offensive to persons of ordinary sensibilities residing in
the vicinity, or to breed or attract flies, mosquitoes or other noxious
insects, or, in any manner, to endanger the public health or safety or create a
public nuisance.
   (B)   All persons keeping the animals shall comply with the following
sanitary regulations.
      (1)   Manure and droppings shall be removed from pens, stables, yards,
cages and other enclosures at least twice weekly and handled or disposed of in
a manner as to keep the premises free of any nuisance.
      (2)   Mound storage of droppings or manure between the removals shall be
permitted only under conditions as to protect against the breeding of flies and
to prevent migration of flies (maggots) into surrounding soil.
      (3)   The feeding of vegetables, meat scraps or garbage shall be done
only in impervious containers on an impervious platform.
      (4)   Watering troughs or tanks shall be provided which shall be equipped
with adequate facilities for drainage of the overflow so as to prevent the
flies from breeding, mosquitoes from breeding or other insects from breeding.
      (5)   No putrescible material shall be allowed to accumulate on the
premises and all material used to feed which is unconsumed shall be removed and
disposed of by burial or other sanitary means.
      (6)   The distances and square footage required by other provisions of
this chapter shall be maintained.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 95.12 ANIMAL WASTE REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person not to immediately remove and
dispose of, in a sanitary manner, feces left by a dog being handled by that
person on property, public or private, other than the premises of the owner or
handler of such dog.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to walk a dog on public property
or the private property of someone other than the owner or handler of such dog
without having in their possession a container or other instrument suitable for
the removal and disposal of the dog's feces in a sanitary manner.
   (C)   This section shall not, however, apply to handicapped persons using
guide dogs or to peace officers while using animals in the discharge of
emergency law enforcement activities.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14)
§ 95.13 HORSES ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or lead any livestock, including
any horse, on any sidewalk within the city.
(Ord. 100-16, passed 10-20-15)
HUNTING, MOLESTING AND THE LIKE
§ 95.25 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   The City Council hereby declare that the all the land and airway area
embraced within the city limits is hereby declared to be and shall hereafter be
a bird sanctuary.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14)
§ 95.26 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   Subject to the exceptions contained in Tex. Parks & Wildlife Code, Ch. 64,
it shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot, molest or attempt to shoot, in any
manner whatsoever any bird or wild fowl, or to rob bird nests or wild fowl
nests in the city. In the event that sparrows, blackbirds, pigeons, crows or
similar birds are found congregating in numbers in a particular locality within
the city limits, as to constitute a public nuisance or menace to the public
health or to private or public property, then in that event or any of them, the
congregated birds or wild fowl may be destroyed as is deemed advisable by and
under the supervision and control of the Police Department of the city.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 95.40 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   The City Council hereby adopts the provisions of Tex. Health & Safety Code,
Ch. 822 as the guidelines to be followed in the City of Sweeny for dealing with
dangerous dogs.
(Ord. 102-15, passed 12-16-14)
CHAPTER 96: RESERVED
CHAPTER 97: SMOKING IN PUBLIC FACILITIES
Section
   
97.01   Findings and intent
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Prohibition of smoking in enclosed public places
   
97.04   Prohibition of smoking in outdoor arenas and stadiums
   
97.05   Reasonable distance
   
97.06   Where smoking not regulated
   
97.07   Declaration of establishment as nonsmoking
   
97.08   Posting of signs
   
97.09   Nonretaliation; nonwaiver of rights
   
97.10   Enforcement
   
97.11   Other applicable laws
   
97.12   Liberal construction
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The City Council does hereby find that tobacco smoke is a form of air
pollution, is a danger to the health and welfare of the citizenry and is a
material public nuisance.
   (B)   Accordingly, the City Council finds and declares that the purposes of
this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect the public health and welfare by prohibiting smoking in
public places and places of employment; and
      (2)   To guarantee the right of nonsmokers to breathe smoke-free air, and
to recognize that the need to breathe the smoke-free air shall have priority
over the desire to smoke.
(Ord. 101-08, passed 11-20-07)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAR. An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages, including, but not
limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges and cabarets. The main
criteria to determine if an establishment is a bar or a restaurant is if at
least 51% of the gross receipts of the establishment come from liquor sales,
the establishment is a BAR, otherwise, if 51% or more of the gross receipts
come from the sale of food, then the establishment is a restaurant.
   BILLIARD OR POOL HALL. Premises used primarily for any of several games
played on an oblong table by driving small balls against one another or into
pockets with a cue and wherein at least 50% of the area accessible to the
public, excluding restrooms, hallways and entries, has to be occupied by pool
tables.
   BINGO FACILITY. Premises used primarily for the purpose of conducting games
of chance.
   BUSINESS. A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation or
other business entity, either for-profit or not-for-profit, including retail
establishments where goods or services are sold; professional corporations and
other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering, architectural or
other professional services are delivered; and private clubs.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, and a person who volunteers his or
her services for a non-profit entity.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust or non-profit entity that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all
sides by solid smoke impermeable walls or windows (exclusive of doorways),
which extend from the floor to the ceiling.
   GAME ROOMS. An establishment that is licensed by the city as a “game room”
whose primary business is the operation of eight liners, and the like.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of disease, whether physical, mental or emotional, or other medical,
physiological or psychological conditions, including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, including weight control
clinics, nursing homes, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories
and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians,
dentists and all specialists within these professions. This definition shall
include all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semi-private rooms and
wards within health care facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees normally frequent during the course of employment,
including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias and hallways.
A private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT unless it is used as a
childcare, adult day care or health care facility.
   PRIVATE CLUB. Organization, whether incorporated or not, which is the owner,
lessee or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively for club
purposes at all times, which is operated solely for a recreational, fraternal,
social, patriotic, political, benevolent or athletic purpose but not for
pecuniary gain, and which only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to its
operation. The affairs and management of the organization are conducted by a
board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members
at an annual meeting. The organization has established bylaws and/or a
constitution to govern its activities. The organization has been granted an
exemption from the payment of federal income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. §
501. A PRIVATE CLUB in this chapter is not a PRIVATE CLUB as defined by the
Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code or Beverage Commission.
   PRIVATE OFFICE. A space for an officer or employee sequestered or withdrawn
from public areas; not intended primarily for general public use or entry.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including, but not limited to, banks, bars,
educational facilities, health care facilities, hotel and motel lobbies,
laundromats, public transportation facilities, reception areas, restaurant,
retail food production and marketing establishments, retail service
establishment, retail stores, shopping malls, sports arenas, theaters and
waiting rooms. A private club is a PUBLIC PLACE when being used for a function
to which the general public is invited. A private residence is not a PUBLIC
PLACE unless it is used as a childcare, adult day care or health care facility.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including, but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests or employees, as well
as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the premises
for serving elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall include a bar area within the
restaurant. If at least 51% of the establishment’s gross receipts comes from
the sale of food items, then the establishment is a RESTAURANT.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of their products is
merely incidental.
   SHOPPING MALL. An enclosed public walkway or hall area that serves to
connect retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe or other lighted tobacco product in any manner or in any form.
   SPORTS ARENA. Sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing
arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, softball, soccer and baseball
fields and other similar places where members of the general public assemble to
engage in physical exercise, participate in athletic competition or witness
sports or other events. This includes within the fenced area of any public
swimming pool.
(Ord. 101-08, passed 11-20-07)
§ 97.03 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in the following enclosed public places within
in the city:
   (A)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries and museums;
   (B)   Areas available to and customarily used by the general public in
businesses and non-profit entities patronized by the public, including banks,
laundromats, hotels and motels;
   (C)   City facilities that are enclosed, including buildings, owned, leased
or operated by the city;
    (D)   Recreational facilities, including the fenced area of public swimming
pools;
   (E)   Educational facilities, both public and private;
   (F)   Elevators;
   (G)   Facilities primarily used for exhibiting a motion picture, stage,
drama, lecture, musical recital or other similar performance;
   (H)   Hotel and motel lobbies and hallways;
   (I)   Licensed childcare and adult day care facilities;
   (J)   Lobbies, hallways and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes and other
multiple unit residential facilities;
   (K)   Polling places;
   (L)   Restaurants;
   (M)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas and other common use areas;
   (N)   Retail stores;
   (O)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including
school buildings, under the control of an agency, board, commission, committee
or council of the city or a political subdivision of the state, to the extent
the place is subject to the jurisdiction of the city;
   (P)   Shopping malls or strip centers;
   (Q)   Sports arenas, including enclosed places in outdoor arenas; and
   (R)   City vehicles that are purchased after January 1, 2008.
(Ord. 101-08, passed 11-20-07) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN OUTDOOR ARENAS AND STADIUMS.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in the seating areas of all outdoor arenas,
stadiums and amphitheaters. It shall be presumed that 15 feet is a reasonable
distance from the bleachers, dugouts, playing field and the like, however, if a
complaint is received from any person in the bleachers, dugouts, playing field
and the like that the smoke 15 feet away is bothering them, the appropriate
enforcement officer may require the smoker(s) to move a further distance, so as
to facilitate the goal of this chapter, that nonsmokers be allowed to enjoy
outdoor sporting events without suffering the nuisance of smokers.
(Ord. 101-08, passed 11-20-07)
§ 97.05 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking is prohibited within the reasonable distance of 15 feet radius from
any exterior door and operable windows outside an enclosed area where smoking
is prohibited, so as to insure that tobacco smoke does not enter the area
through entrances, windows, ventilation systems or other means. Enclosed public
places where smoking is prohibited may establish smoking areas outside of the
building as long as placement does not violate this chapter.
(Ord. 101-08, passed 11-20-07) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.06 WHERE SMOKING NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of §
97.03:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed childcare, adult
day care or health care facility;
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms; providing, however, that not more than 20% of rooms rented to
guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated. All smoking rooms on the same
floor must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into
areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this chapter. The
status of rooms as smoking or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to add
additional nonsmoking rooms;
   (C)   Retail tobacco stores; providing that smoke from these places does not
infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this
chapter;
   (D)   Private and semi-private rooms in nursing homes and long-term care
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers
and have requested in writing to be placed in a room where smoking is
permitted; provided that smoke from these places does not infiltrate into areas
where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this chapter;
   (E)   Outdoor areas of places of employment except those covered by the
provisions of §
97.03;
   (F)   Bars;
   (G)   Billiard or pool halls;
   (H)   Bingo facilities;
   (I)   Private offices;
    (J)   Game rooms; and
   (K)   Bowling alleys.
(Ord. 101-08, passed 11-20-07)
§ 97.07 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NONSMOKING.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, an owner, operator,
manager or other person in control of an establishment, facility or outdoor
area may declare that entire establishment, facility or outdoor area as a
nonsmoking place. Smoking shall be prohibited in any place in which a sign
conforming to the requirements of §
97.08 is posted.
(Ord. 101-08, passed 11-20-07) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.08 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
between four and six feet above the ground or floor on the public entry door in
every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by this
chapter, by the owner, operator, manager or other person in control of that
place.
   (B)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every public entrance a conspicuous sign
posted between four and six feet above the ground or floor on the entry door
clearly stating that smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator, manager or other person
having control of the area. This section does not prohibit the sale of ashtrays
by any retail store even if smoking in the store is prohibited.
   (D)   The city shall post on its website an acceptable sign that will comply
with this provision that may be downloaded and reproduced so as to minimize the
cost of signage to the businesses, and the like covered by this chapter.
   (E)   In the event that smoking is prohibited on the entire property, the
owner of the property is exempt from the requirement of posting signs on public
doors and entrances, so long as there is an appropriate sized “No Smoking” sign
posted at the public entrance to the property.
(Ord. 101-08, passed 11-20-07) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.09 NONRETALIATION; NONWAIVER OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner
retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment or customer because
that employee, applicant or customer exercises any rights afforded by this
chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   An employee who works in a setting where an employer allows smoking
does not waive or otherwise surrender any legal rights the employee may have
against the employer or any other party.
(Ord. 101-08, passed 11-20-07) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Chief of Police or an authorized
designee.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of the chapter shall be given to all
applicants for a business license or certificate of occupancy in the city.
   (C)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
initiate enforcement with the Chief of Police.
   (D)   The Building or Code Enforcement Department, Fire Department or their
designees shall, while an establishment is undergoing otherwise mandated
inspections, inspect for compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   An owner, manager, operator or employee of an establishment regulated
by this chapter shall inform persons violating this chapter of the appropriate
provisions thereof.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an employee or
private citizen may bring legal action to enforce this chapter.
   (G)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
section, the City Administrator or any person aggrieved by the failure of the
owner, operator, manager or other person in control of a public place or a
place of employment to comply with the provisions of this chapter may apply for
injunctive relief to enforce those provisions in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 101-08, passed 11-20-07)
§ 97.11 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where
it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 101-08, passed 11-20-07)
§ 97.12 LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed so as to further its purposes.
(Ord. 101-08, passed 11-20-07)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a
fine not exceeding $50 on the first offense and not exceeding $200 on
subsequent infractions, plus applicable court costs.
   (B)   In addition to the fines established by this section, violation of the
posting of signs as required by this chapter by a person who owns, manages,
operates or otherwise controls a public place or place of employment may result
in a fine not exceeding $50 on the first offense and not exceeding $200 on
subsequent infractions, plus applicable court costs.
   (C)   Each day on which a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 101-08, passed 11-20-07)
CHAPTER 98: RESTRICTED SMOKING MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS
Section
   
98.01   Purpose
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Sale, delivery, offer, gift, barter or display of restricted smoking
materials and products
   
98.04   Use or possession of restricted smoking materials and products
   
98.05   Use or possession of restricted ingestion paraphernalia device
   
98.06   Defenses to prosecution
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the sale, attempted sale,
delivery, gift or barter of restricted smoking materials and products as
defined herein to any individual in the city limits and to prohibit the
purchase, possession or use of restricted smoking materials and products and
ingestion paraphernalia devices as defined herein by any individual within the
city limits.
(Ord. 100-11, passed 11-16-10)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, wholesaler, retailer or any
licensed or unlicensed business.
   RESTRICTED INGESTION PARAPHERNALIA DEVICE. Paraphernalia, equipment or
utensil that is used or intended to be used in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing an illegal smoking material and product into the human body,
including:
      (1)   A metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipe
with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head or punctured metal
bowl;
      (2)   A water pipe;
      (3)   A carburetion tube or device;
      (4)   A smoking or carburetion mask;
      (5)   A chamber pipe;
      (6)   A carburetor pipe;
      (7)   An electric pipe;
      (8)   An air-driven pipe;
      (9)   A chillum;
      (10)   A bong; or
      (11)   An ice pipe or chiller.
   RESTRICTED SMOKING MATERIAL AND PRODUCT. Any substance, whether described as
tobacco, herbs, incense, spice or any blend thereof, regardless of whether the
substance is marketed for the purpose of being smoked, which includes any one
or more of the following chemicals:
      (1)   Salvia divinorum or salvinorum A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts, derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
      (2)   2-[(1R, 3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methylocatan-2-yl) phenol
(also known as CP47, 497) and homologues;
      (3)   (6aS, 10aS)-9-(hydroxmethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a, 7, 10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c] chormen-1-ol) (also known as HU-211 or
Dexanabinol);
      (4)   1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-018);
      (5)   1-butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-073);
      (6)   1-pentyl-3-(4-methoxynaphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-081);
      (7)   Synthetic cannabinoids, synthetic cannabinoid mimicking compounds
or substances containing the HU-201 compound; or
      (8)   (a)   Products containing any of the above substances currently
that are marketed under the following commercial names:
      “K-2,” “K-2 SUMMIT,” “K-2 SEX,” “GENIE,” DASCENTS,” “ZOHAI,” “SAGE,”
“SPICE,” “KO KNOCK-OUT 2,” “SPICE GOLD,” “SPICE DIAMOND,” “SPICE SILVER,”
“YUCATAN FIRE,” “SOLAR FLARE,” “PEP SPICE,” “FIRE N’ ICE,” “DIABLO,” “SPICY
GREEN,” “SKUNK,” “SENSE”
         (b)   This definition also includes any and all new products that may
be marketed under different names if those new products contain any of the
chemical components identified in the preceding definitions.
(Ord. 100-11, passed 11-16-10)
§ 98.03 SALE, DELIVERY, OFFER, GIFT, BARTER OR DISPLAY OF RESTRICTED SMOKING
MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, deliver,
barter, give or publicly display any illegal smoking material and product to
anyone within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 100-11, passed 11-16-10) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.04 USE OR POSSESSION OF RESTRICTED SMOKING MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or possess any restricted smoking
material and product within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 100-11, passed 11-16-10) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.05 USE OR POSSESSION OF RESTRICTED INGESTION PARAPHERNALIA DEVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in their possession any
restricted ingestion paraphernalia device with the intent to use it to inject,
ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a restricted smoking
material and product.
(Ord. 100-11, passed 11-16-10) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.06 DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION.
   (A)   It shall be a defense to prosecution for a violation under this
chapter if the use of the restricted smoking material(s) and product(s) is
under and pursuant to the direction or prescription of a licensed physician or
dentist authorized to direct or prescribe such act in the State of Texas.
   (B)   It shall be a defense to prosecution under this chapter if the person
charged with a violation can provide proper and complete historic documentation
that the use of the restricted smoking material(s) and product(s) was
undertaken solely for religious purposes or as the activity of an organized
religious denomination in which the person has been identified to have a long-
standing historic membership as supported by documentation from clergy or a
spiritual leader recognized by the State of Texas.
(Ord. 100-11, passed 11-16-10)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, as may be amended,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine upon conviction in
Municipal Court and shall be subject to the penalties for a violation of an
ordinance governing public health found in this code.
(Ord. 100-11, passed 11-16-10)
CHAPTER 99: CAMPING IN PUBLIC PARKS
Section
   
99.01   General camping regulations
   
99.02   Park use permits`
   
99.03   Standards for issuance
   
99.04   Closing hours for city parks and park facilities
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 GENERAL CAMPING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Camping means occupying a designated camping space, erecting a tent,
or arranging bedding or both, for the purpose of, or in such a manner as will
permit, remaining overnight; or the use of a trailer, camper or other vehicle
for the purpose of sleeping overnight.
   (B)   A person may not camp at a park except as authorized by city permit
and only in an area designated or marked for that purpose.
   (C)   Camping shall only be allowed in the designated spaces at the Backyard
Park. It shall be unlawful for any persons to camp in any other city park or
playground.
(Ord. 100-21, passed 3-16-21)
§ 99.02 PARK USE PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp in any city park or
playground, set up any tent, shack or other shelter, or lay out any bedroll or
other sleeping equipment without first obtaining a permit from the City Manager
or his or her designee as set out herein.
   (B)   No person, group or organization shall be entitled to exclusive use of
the park or recreational facility or part thereof owned or operated by the city
unless such person, group or organization shall first obtain a permit for such
exclusive use from the City Manager or his or her designee.
   (C)   Any person, group or organization applying for a park use permit shall
make payment of an application fee and deposit as established by the City
Council and referenced in the city's standard fee schedule adopted by
ordinance. When it is determined by the City Manager or his or her designee
that the city will sponsor or partly sponsor an event, such fees shall not be
collected. Applicable deposits shall not be refunded when it is determined by
the City Manager or his or her designee that park damages, littering, or theft
has occurred. Fees collected shall cover the cost of processing the application
and any preparation of the designated area and rented space for the use of the
applicant.
   (D)   Reservations and applications are required to be in an adult's name or
of a person older than the legal age of 18.
   (E)   (1)   The park use permit shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the person, group or
organization issued such permit which must include a government issued photo
identification;
         (b)   The dates and times for which such permit is effective;
         (c)   The space which the permittee is authorized to use;
         (d)   The applicants' vehicle and recreational vehicle's
identification if applicable; and
         (e)   Such other conditions as the City Manager or his or her designee
may deem appropriate to minimize disturbance to surrounding property, avoid
traffic congestion, and to avoid destruction of city property.
      (2)   The items mentioned above are not the only items which the City
Manager or his or her designee may include in such permit but are the items
which must be contained in such permit.
(Ord. 100-21, passed 3-16-21)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 99.03 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The payment of the required permit fees shall entitle the applicant
assurance of the issuance of such permit unless the City Manager or his or her
designee shall affirmatively find any of the following:
      (1)   The park or recreational facility is to be used for any unlawful
purpose; or
      (2)   The time, place or manner of use of the facility is likely to cause
substantial disturbance to persons occupying property adjoining the facility;
or
      (3)   The time, place or manner of use of the facility is likely to
result in damage to city property; or
      (4)   The application for the permit is made such that there is not
sufficient time to make the above determinations; or
      (5)   The failure to clean a facility to the satisfaction of the City
Manager or his or her designee after a prior use of such facility, regardless
of whether such prior use was under a permit provided for herein or not.
   (B)   To afford all the public a wider use of camping facilities, the
continuous occupancy of a camping facility by the same person or group in a
park is limited to seven consecutive calendar days.
   (C)   When a person has used a camping facility in a park for seven
consecutive days, the person may not again use the overnight camping facilities
in the park for 48 hours, unless the City Manager or his or her designee
determines that adequate camping spaces are available to serve the public.
   (D)   A person under 18 years of age in a park after closing hours must be
accompanied or supervised by an adult that has obtained the required permits
for overnight camping use. The ratio of adults to minors shall not be less than
one adult for every eight minors.
(Ord. 100-21, passed 3-16-21)
§ 99.04 CLOSING HOURS FOR CITY PARKS AND PARK FACILITIES.
   (A)   All city parks and park facilities, except as provided below, shall be
closed to the public every night between 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the following persons if in the park
or facility in the performance of their duties: peace officers, physicians,
ambulance operators/attendants, employees of the city.
   (C)   The City Manager or his or her designee may grant permission to extend
the closing hours to persons, groups or organizations who have been issued a
park use permit at any park or facility in accordance with the terms of the
permit.
(Ord. 100-21, passed 3-16-21)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to comply with the provisions contained in this chapter is hereby
declared unlawful and shall constitute a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable
by a fine not to exceed $500.00, with each violation and each day constituting
a separate offense.
(Ord. 100-21, passed 3-16-21)
CHAPTER 100: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Parks and Facility Naming Policy
   
100.01   Definitions
   
100.02   General naming criteria and guidelines
   
100.03   Corporate naming rights
   
100.04   Restrictions on the naming of major facilities and sub-facilities
   
100.05   Guidelines for naming process
   
100.06   Guidelines for re-naming process
   
100.07   Plaques, markers and memorials
   
100.08   Accountability
Parks Memorial Policy
   
100.20   Parks memorial policy
PARKS AND FACILITY NAMING POLICY
§ 100.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAJOR FACILITY. Major city-owned buildings, parks and trails built for
permanent use.
   SUB-FACILITY. Minor city-owned structures within a major facility, including
but not limited to swimming pools, pavilions, tennis courts, large water
features, bridges, trail sections, athletic fields, or meeting rooms.
(Ord. 23-102, passed 3-21-23)
§ 100.02 GENERAL NAMING CRITERIA AND GUIDELINES.
   To be considered a qualifying name, the proposed name must meet one of the
following criteria:
   (A)   Be descriptive of geographic location, a significant natural feature
in or near the facility, or an adjoining subdivision, street, or school;
   (B)   Commemorate historical events, groups or exceptional individuals that
are of continued importance to the city, region, state, or nation;
   (C)   Individuals who are deceased and have a history of performing
exceptional community service or contributions to the facility's best interest
may be recognized with a named facility under the following conditions:
      (1)   Involvement in a leadership role in civic organizations which are
devoted to community improvement;
      (2)   Assistance to the underprivileged as well as people with physical
or intellectual disabilities;
      (3)   Actively promoted and directed effective programs for youth or
senior citizens within the community;
      (4)   Actively promoted and directed community events and activities
which have enriched the quality of life within the community;
      (5)   Actively promoted and directed efforts to improve the aesthetic
appearance and environmental quality of the community; and/or
      (6)   Led efforts to collect, promote and retain the historical heritage
of the community;
   (D)   Individuals who made significant contributions or major gifts to
facilitate the acquisition or development of the facility.
      (1)   If a facility is named to commemorate or honor an individual or
group, the scale of the facility to be named should match the stature,
characteristics, and contributions of the individual. The threshold for
considering the naming of a facility after a donor, benefactor or group will
include one or more of the following:
         (a)   Land for most of the facility was deeded to the city.
         (b)   Contribution of a minimum of 50% of the capital construction
costs associated with developing the facility.
         (c)   Provision of an endowment for at least 50% of a facility's
estimated useful life for the continued maintenance and/or programming of the
facility.
         (d)   The City Council may alter these guidelines if deemed necessary.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to utilize criminal background checks
as part of the vetting process to establish an honoree's good character.
      (3)   Names that will not be considered would include:
         (a)   Any elected or appointed official currently serving in that
capacity;
         (b)   Any individual(s) currently employed by the city or municipal
entity;
   (E)   Recognize organizations involved in a public-private partnership with
the City of Sweeny that have made significant financial or capital
contributions to the acquisition or development of the facility. This includes
any naming rights agreements approved by the City Council;
   (F)   Have historical, cultural, or social significance for future
generations; and
   (G)   Research indicates that the area around the facility, or the facility
itself, has been commonly named in an unofficial capacity by residents.
(Ord. 23-102, passed 3-21-23)
§ 100.03 CORPORATE NAMING RIGHTS.
   The City Council may also select the naming rights of a major facility, sub-
facility or major feature. The City Council may issue a Request for Proposals
(RFP) process or by other means solicit proposals for corporate naming of a
major facility, sub-facility or other feature. Corporate logos, brands, and
insignias shall be allowed as part of the naming rights so long as it does not
result in the over-commercialization of the public asset. The City Council will
evaluate the proposals based on:
   (A)   The reputation of the corporation;
   (B)   The alignment of the corporation’s products or services with the city
park, facility, building, other features; and
   (C)   The duration and revenues specified for the naming rights.
(Ord. 23-102, passed 3-21-23)
§ 100.04 RESTRICTIONS ON THE NAMING OF MAJOR FACILITIES AND SUB-FACILITIES.
   (A)   Duplication of other facility names in the city will not be
considered.
   (B)   To minimize confusion, facilities will not be subdivided beyond the
level of sub-facilities for the purpose of naming unless there are readily
identifiable physical divisions such as roads or waterways.
   (C)   Facility names that might be considered discriminatory or derogatory
names relating to age, race, religion, creed, national origin, sex, color,
marital status, disability, sexual orientation, political affiliation, or other
similar categories will not be considered.
   (D)   Facility names will not advocate a current political figure, political
affiliation, ideology, or religion.
   (E)   Cumbersome, corrupted, or modified names, or any profane name or
language will not be considered.
(Ord. 23-102, passed 3-21-23)
§ 100.05 GUIDELINES FOR NAMING PROCESS.
   (A)   Naming of major facilities.
      (1)   The naming process for a major facility will automatically be
initiated with the City Council’s approval for the design, construction, or
acquisition of the facility.
      (2)   The city will utilize City Council to facilitate the naming of
major facilities.
      (3)   (a)   A permanent name for the major facility should occur no later
than the 50% completion mark in the construction or acquisition process.
         (b)   Prior to the permanent naming of a major facility, the location
will be referred to by its address or location designation until such a time as
the major facility is given an official name.
      (4)   The City Council is to conduct the naming of a major facility
according to the following process:
         (a)   The major facility naming process is initiated with the approval
of the design, construction, or acquisition of the major facility.
         (b)   A person or group may submit a suggestion for naming by
submitting a letter to the City Manager or the Mayor. The letter should
include:
            1.   The proposed name;
            2.   A short explanation of why the facility should be named or
renamed; and
            3.   A description of the proposed namesake’s contributions to the
community or other justification for naming a street, facility, park or feature
that name.
         (c)   The City Manager shall direct staff to review the naming
request. Staff shall evaluate:
            1.   The requestor’s proposal in consideration of this policy;
            2.   The impact on existing facilities;
            3.   The financial impact for changing signs, plaques, and markers
or initiation new signs, plaques, and markers; and
            4.   The appropriateness of the name based on this policy.
         (d)   Requests to name individual features with a value of less than
$5,000 such as park benches, fountains, furniture, or other small items shall
be referred to city staff and shall not require the approval of the Park Board
or City Council.
         (e)   All names for major facilities will be approved by a majority
City Council vote regardless of the source of the name's recommendation.
   (B)   Naming of sub-facilities.
      (1)   All requests for the naming or renaming of a sub-facility must be
made in writing to the Director of the responsible department of the sub-
facility, or to the City Manager. Written requests for the changing of a sub-
facility's name should contain the following minimum information:
         (a)   The proposed name;
         (b)   Reasons for the proposed name;
         (c)   Written documentation indicating community support for the
proposed name (if applicable);
         (d)   If proposing to name a sub-facility within a park, include a
description/map showing the location of the sub-facility; and
         (e)   If proposing to name a sub-facility after an individual, group,
donor, or benefactor, include documentation of that person or group's
significance and good reputation in the city's, state's, or nation's history.
Please refer to the commemorative naming conditions for an individual found in
this policy.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a naming request, the Director of the responsible
department or City Manager will:
         (a)   Review the proposed request for its adherence to the policies of
the City of Sweeny;
         (b)   Ensure that supporting information has been authenticated,
particularly when an individual's name is proposed;
         (c)   When deemed appropriate, the City Manager will recommend City
Council review sub-facility renaming suggestions; and
         (d)   City Council will have the prerogative of accepting or rejecting
the final proposal.
(Ord. 23-102, passed 3-21-23)
§ 100.06 GUIDELINES FOR RE-NAMING PROCESS.
   (A)   The renaming of major or sub-facilities is strongly discouraged. It is
recommended that efforts to change a name be subject to the most critical of
examinations so as not to diminish the original justification for the name or
discount the value of the prior contributors.
      (1)   Parks or other facilities named by deed restriction will not be
considered for renaming.
      (2)   (a)   Parks and facilities named after individuals will not be
changed unless it is found that the individual's personal character is or was
such that the continued use of the name for a facility would not be in the best
interest of the community.
         (b)   Exceptions may be granted for changes in use of facilities or
for facility demolitions.
   (B)   If it is decided that it is in the best interest of the city to rename
a major or sub-facility, it must be renamed in accordance with the criteria and
guidelines outlined in the procedures of this policy.
(Ord. 23-102, passed 3-21-23)
§ 100.07 PLAQUES, MARKERS AND MEMORIALS.
   (A)   Plaques, pavers, and memorials may be incorporated into a facility or
sub-facility during the design phase of the project. Plaques, pavers, and
memorials that are incorporated into the design of a facility will be subject
to the same oversight and controls inherent to the project.
   (B)   Plaques, pavers, and memorials added to a facility or sub-facility
after its completion and opening will be designed and installed according both
this policy and to the city's park memorial policy.
   (C)   All plaques and memorials must follow the policy as set forth in §
100.20.
(Ord. 23-102, passed 3-21-23)
§ 100.08 ACCOUNTABILITY.
   The City Council shall have the authority to name city-owned major
facilities, as well as all city-owned sub-facilities, according to the
procedure and criteria established by this policy.
(Ord. 23-102, passed 3-21-23)
PARKS MEMORIAL POLICY
§ 100.20 PARKS MEMORIAL POLICY.
   (A)   The city’s Parks and Recreation Department shall consider and confirm
reservations in the following priority:
      (1)   Memorial request;
      (2)   Types of memorials;
      (3)   Plaques or markers; and
      (4)   Installation.
   (B)   Memorial requests. Memorial requests can only be submitted for a loved
one who has passed away and must be in writing to the Sweeny City Manager. All
requests must have the written consent of the family involved. The request
should provide all information requested on the memorial application and must
include the type of memorial (see below) and preferred location.
   (C)   Types of memorials.
      (1)   Bench. The style and type of the bench is not specific to any
certain brand but must be composed of a weather resistant material and conform
to the appearance of surrounding appurtenances and be approved by the Parks and
Recreation Board. At the applicant's request, the bench can have a cast bronze
plaque TPQ-02 mounted on the bench with memorial wording (plaque specifications
and wording choices detailed below). Benches will be installed adjacent to
common area/park sidewalks or trails.
      (2)   Tree. A 30-gallon tree from the approved tree list found on the
memorial application may be selected by the applicant. The tree's exact
location will be determined by city staff to conform to surrounding area
landscaping. These trees are selected for their durability. Trees will only be
installed where adequate irrigation and spacing is present. Donors will be
notified once a tree has been planted and will be made aware of its location.
The city cannot guarantee a specific planting date.
   (D)   Plaques. Plaque requests can only be made in conjunction with a bench
or service project. Standalone plaques are not permitted. A standard plaque
style will be chosen by Sweeny Parks and Recreation Board for bench memorials
and service projects. Suggested plaque specifications include:
      (1)   Bench plaques are approximately eight inches wide by two inches
high in size, bronze, have up to three lines of text and 18 characters/spaces
maximum per line and will be mounted on the front of the bench.
      (2)   Specific wording for a plaque is required. Additional inscriptions
and extraneous content are not permitted. Inscriptions will appear in the
following format:
         IN MEMORY OF/IN LOVING MEMORY/IN HONOR OF
         BOB SMITH
         7/5/1942–1/7/2010
      (3)   Service project plaques are approximately eight inches wide by two
inches high in size, bronze, have up to three lines of text and 18 characters/
spaces maximum per line and will be mounted on the project. Parks and
Recreation staff will designate the location of the plaque on the service
project.
         GROUP NAME
         INDIVIDUAL NAME
         MM/DD/YYYY
   (E)   Installation. Parks and Recreation staff, or a designated vendor, will
be responsible for the final site selection and installation of the memorial or
service project. The date of the tree planting and installation or bench
installation cannot be guaranteed. Requests are processed in the order they are
received. Trees are planted between November 1 and March 1 due to climate
conditions. Benches may be installed at any time during the year.
   (F)   Applicant’s responsibility. The applicant will be responsible for the
cost and installation of the memorial. Parks and Recreation staff will provide
the requesting applicant the cost of the memorial, with installation, and the
applicant will be responsible for paying the City of Sweeny. Full payment is
required prior to ordering any memorial.
   (G)   Ownership. The Sweeny Parks and Recreation Department holds ultimate
ownership over all memorials and service projects, and it is prohibited for
applicants to decorate, personalize, or add adornment to any memorials or
service projects.
   (H)   Maintenance and installation.
      (1)   The city will not replace or be responsible for trees, or service
projects, that become damaged or die.
      (2)   Special maintenance requests for specific benches, or service
projects, will not be granted except in cases of safety concerns or damage. If
a memorial bench, or service project, is vandalized or damaged by an act of
God, the Parks and Recreation Department will make every effort to repair the
bench, or service project, within the limits of its available funding. If the
bench, or service project, cannot be repaired or replaced, and if the bench, or
service project, is a hazard or is unsightly, the Parks and Recreation
Department may remove the bench, or service project.
      (3)   In the event that a memorial plaque is stolen from a bench, or
service project, the donor will be given the option to purchase a replacement.
Written efforts will be made and documented to contact the donor. If the donor
cannot be reached, the Sweeny Parks and Recreation Department reserves the
right to forego replacement, move or abandon the plaque, bench or other marker.
The Sweeny Parks and Recreation Department is not responsible for any theft of
memorials or service projects.
      (4)   Any memorial, or service project, which is installed without the
approval of the Sweeny Parks and Recreation Department may be removed at the
expense of the party who installed the memorial, or service project.
      (5)   All benches, or service projects, will be installed and maintained
by the Parks and Recreation Department Staff or contractors. Memorial benches,
or service projects, will remain in place for the duration of the structure’s
lifespan. At the end of this period, the Parks and Recreation Department may at
its own discretion replace or remove the bench, or service project.
      (6)   The Sweeny Parks and Recreation Department reserves the right to
relocate the bench, or service project, for safety, environmental, or land
management reasons. In the event that this occurs, the donor will be notified
of the new location of the bench, or service project.
   (I)   The Parks and Recreation Board of Directors requires a minimum of 30
business days to review and follow-up on all memorial and service project
requests. Location determination and payment process will begin after that. The
City of Sweeny reserves the right to reject or decline any donation.
(Ord. 23-102, passed 3-21-23)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
         
111.   MOTOR VEHICLE WRECKER SERVICES
         
112.   PERMITS
         
113.   ALCOHOL SALES
         
114.   RESERVED
         
115.   MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Peddler or solicitor
   
110.03   Permit required
   
110.04   Application for permit
   
110.05   Issuance and duration of permit
   
110.06   Permit fees
   
110.07   Permit to be carried on person; presentation upon request
   
110.08   Revocation of permit
   
110.09   Surety bond required
   
110.10   Refusal to leave premises prohibited
   
110.11   Posted restrictions
   
110.12   Restricted hours
   
110.13   Customers’ rights; cancellation
   
110.14   Exemptions
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is and shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the
state and of the city for the public safety, comfort, convenience and
protection of the city and the citizens thereof, and all of the provisions of
this chapter shall be constructed to the accomplishment of this purpose.
(Ord. passed 7-17-90)
§ 110.02 PEDDLER OR SOLICITOR.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER OR SOLICITOR. Any person, partnership, firm or corporation going
from house to house or from place to place in the city soliciting, exhibiting,
selling, canvassing for or taking orders for or offering to sell or take orders
for any goods, wares, merchandise, and subscriptions to magazines,
publications, newspapers, photographs or services. The same shall also include
any person, partnership, firm or corporations soliciting, exhibiting, selling,
taking orders for or offering to sell or take orders for the goods, wares,
merchandise, publications or services upon or from a truck or other vehicle
whether or the streets or from any property whatever in the city, whether
public or private. Also anyone who solicits orders and, as a separate
transaction, makes deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to
evade these provisions shall be deemed a peddler or solicitor. The terms
PEDDLER OR SOLICITOR shall also be synonymous with itinerant merchant and
transient vendor, as well as each other.
(Ord. passed 7-17-90; Am. Ord. 23-108, passed 10-24-23)
§ 110.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, firm or corporation to
peddle, sell, solicit, exhibit or take orders for or offer to take order for
any goods, wares, merchandise, food or subscriptions to magazines,
publications, newspapers, photographs or services without first having obtained
a permit to do so from the city, except as provided for in §
110.04.
(Ord. passed 7-17-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Every person desiring to obtain a permit or registration certificate,
as required by this section, shall make written application to the City
Administrator which application shall show at least the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and address of person which the applicant represents;
      (3)   The applicant’s date of birth, height, weight, color of hair and
color of eyes, social security number and driver’s license number, if existent;
      (4)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony or a
misdemeanor involving theft, fraud, bribery or perjury;
      (5)   The name of the immediate last preceding three towns in which he or
she worked, if any;
      (6)   The kind of goods, wares and merchandise offered or to be offered
for sale;
      (7)   Whether the applicant upon any order so obtained will demand,
accept or receive payment or deposit of money in advance of final delivery; and
      (8)   In addition, there shall be attached to each application for a
permit, the following:
         (a)   A recent photographic likeness of the applicant’s face, as well
as any assistant working with him or her; and
         (b)   Satisfactory proof of applicant to represent the company or
individual the applicant so states that he or she represents.
   (B)   In addition, the applicant shall submit to fingerprinting by the
Police Department and the fingerprinting shall be kept as a permanent record
with the application.
(Ord. passed 7-17-90)
§ 110.05 ISSUANCE AND DURATION OF PERMIT.
   Upon completion of the investigation, the City Administrator shall issue or
refuse to issue a permit. No permit shall be issued prior to the expiration of
72 hours after the filing of the application. All permits issued shall be valid
for a period of one year unless sooner revoked.
(Ord. passed 7-17-90)
§ 110.06 PERMIT FEES.
   Each and every person seeking a permit under the provisions herein shall pay
an application fee as set in the city's fee schedule. The fee shall be paid by
the person desiring the permit and payable at the time of application. This fee
shall be charged to help defray the cost of investigation and administration
incident to the permit. This fee shall not be pro-rated or refunded to the
applicant regardless of whether a permit is issued or not.
(Ord. passed 7-17-90; Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 110.07 PERMIT TO BE CARRIED ON PERSON; PRESENTATION UPON REQUEST.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or solicitor to do business within the
city unless he or she carries the permit on him or her at all times. Every
peddler or solicitor shall display his or her permit upon request of any person
and, failure to so display each permit, shall be grounds for revocation or
constitute a violation of this section.
(Ord. passed 7-17-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.08 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   If, after the permit, as hereinbefore provided, has been issued and the city
finds that the permit was obtained by false representation in the application
or that the permit holder has committed any act or practice that violates Tex.
Bus. and Com. Code, §§ 17.46 et seq., otherwise known as the State Deceptive
Trade Practice Act or any act or practice which violates the House Solicitation
Sales Act or the commission, during the term of the permit, of any crime or
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or any violation of this section or any
other city ordinance or state or federal law the permit may be revoked.
(Ord. passed 7-17-90)
§ 110.09 SURETY BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   In the event the application shows the applicant is to take orders for
future delivery, he or she shall given bond signed as surety by some surety
company authorized to do business in the state, conditioned for the final
delivery of goods, wares, merchandise, food, photographs, publications or
services in accordance with the terms of the order obtained and also
conditioned to indemnify any and all purchases or customers for any and all
defects in material or workmanship that may exist in the articles, sold by the
principal in the bond, at the time of delivery, that may be discovered by the
purchaser or customer within 30 days after delivery.
   (B)   (1)   The bond shall be in the sum of not less than $1,000 and shall
remain in full force and effect for the entire duration of the license permit.
      (2)   The bond required herein shall be in the form as set by the City
Council.
(Ord. passed 7-17-90)
§ 110.10 REFUSAL TO LEAVE PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   Any peddler or solicitor who enters upon premises owned or occupied by any
person and willfully refuses to leave the premises after having been notified
by the owner or tenant of the premises or his or her agent to leave the same
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 7-17-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.11 POSTED RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or solicitor to enter upon any private
premises when the same is posted with a sign stating “No Peddlers Allowed,” “No
Solicitation Allowed” or other words to that effect.
(Ord. passed 7-17-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.12 RESTRICTED HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to engage in the business of peddling
at any time between the hours of sunset and 30 minutes after sunrise, except
when the peddler has specific invitation and appointment with the customer.
(Ord. passed 7-17-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.13 CUSTOMERS’ RIGHTS; CANCELLATION.
   (A)   All peddlers or solicitors shall provide to the consumer, in writing,
the right to cancel a solicitation transaction made in person or by telephone
until midnight of the third business day after the day on which the customer
signs an agreement or offer to purchase any goods, wares, merchandise, food,
photographs, publications or services.
   (B)   For the purpose of telephone solicitation, the date of transaction
means the day the consumer receives the goods, wares, merchandise, food,
photographs, publications or services purchased in a solicitation transaction.
If the consumer chooses to cancel the solicitation transaction, notification by
mail shall be considered given at the time mailed, as evidenced by the
postmark, notification by telegram shall be considered given at the time filed
for transmission and notification by any other writing shall be considered
given at the time delivered to the merchant’s designated place of business.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or company represented
to refuse to allow the customer to cancel the solicitation transaction.
(Ord. passed 7-17-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.14 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persona engaged in
the following sales or delivery of goods and services.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for persons to go from house to house or place to
place in the city, without having first registered with the City Administrator.
      (1)   Sales of goods, wares, merchandise, publications and/or services by
any bona fide charitable, religious, educational or philanthropic organization
or when donated by owners or merchants of which the proceeds are to be used and
applied to some charitable, religious, educational or philanthropic purposes;
      (2)   Ordinary commercial travelers who sell or exhibit for sale goods,
wares, merchandise, food, photographs, publications or services to firms,
persons or corporations engaged in the business of buying, selling and dealing
in the same;
      (3)   Daily deliveries of milk and bakery and other food products or
newspaper or the sale or deliveries of home grown food products; (The term HOME
GROWN, as used herein, means a food product which is grown locally in a garden,
orchard or field. The term LOCALLY, as used herein, means within the state.)
      (4)   Insurance salespeople, real estate salespeople and other
professionals licensed by the state; and
      (5)   Persons engaged in interstate commerce. (The term INTERSTATE
COMMERCE means soliciting, selling or taking orders for or offering to take
orders for any goods, wares, merchandise, photographs, publications or
services, or acting in any function as a peddler or solicitor, as the terms are
used in this section, which, at the times the order is taken, are in or will be
produced in any federal district or territory, any commonwealth or any state
other than Texas, and shipped or introduced into the city in the fulfillment of
the orders.)
(Ord. passed 7-17-90)
CHAPTER 111: MOTOR VEHICLE WRECKER SERVICES
Section
Rotation Requirements
   
111.01   Listing on city roster; definition
   
111.02   Application
   
111.03   Designation of service; qualified storage facility required
ROTATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 111.01 LISTING ON CITY ROSTER; DEFINITION.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation operating a wrecker or tow truck
operating with the incorporated city limits or within a radius ten miles of the
city measure from the City Hall, whose tow truck and business activity comply
with the provisions of Article 6687-9a of the Vehicle Storage Facility Act,
Tex. Trans. Code, §§ 502.281 and 643, and where applicable, Tex. Transp. Code,
Chapter 396, shall be entitled to be listed on a wrecker rotation roster kept
and maintained by the Chief of Police of the city or his or her designee.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the keeping of the
records of the wrecker rotation and shall be responsible for causing the
rotation of wreckers for wrecker service inside the city limits, where rotation
is applicable.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ROTATION. Alternating the call for wrecker service when applicable under
tire terms of this subchapter. ROTATION shall be, in all things, equitable.
(Ord. 102-91, passed 12-18-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.02 APPLICATION.
   In order to be placed on the wrecker rotation roster, the person, firm or
corporation shall make application to be placed upon the rotation roster on a
form designed to demonstrate the qualifications of the person, firm or
corporation and the person’s, firm’s or corporation’s liability insurance
coverage for the operation of the business, wrecker service and storage
facility in the amounts required by law.
(Ord. 102-91, passed 12-18-90)
§ 111.03 DESIGNATION OF SERVICE; QUALIFIED STORAGE FACILITY REQUIRED.
   (A)   In any situation where wrecker service is needed when the person, firm
or corporation owning the motor vehicle needing the service is competent and
capable to making a decision concerning the using of a wrecker service, the
person’s, firm’s or corporation’s designation of the wrecker service desired by
the person, firm or corporation shall be honored by the Police Department of
the city.
   (B)   In any situation where the need for wrecker service established and
the person, firm or corporation needing the service is incapable or incompetent
to make the persons preference as to wrecker service known to the Police
Department of the city, the service shall rotated to the wrecker service next
appearing on the wrecker rotation roster as next up. Where a motor vehicle is
in need of wrecker service and the vehicle has been involved in some criminal
act, traffic violation or otherwise, and there is a need to keep the vehicle in
storage for the purpose of investigation or impounding of the same as a part of
the criminal evidence, then, in the event, the Police Department shall order
the vehicle confined to a storage facility which is situated within the city
limits and the wrecker service called from the rotation roster shall be
required to place the vehicle in a qualified storage facility within the city
limits.
   (C)   (1)   The officer in charge of the investigation shall make the
initial determination concerning the need for keeping a vehicle in storage for
the purpose of investigation or impounding of the vehicle as a part of the
criminal evidence.
      (2)   Any dispute concerning the need shall be determined by the Chief of
Police of the city.
   (D)   In the event that the wrecker service next up on the rotation roster
cannot provide a qualified storage facility within the city limits under the
conditions where the storage facility within the city limits is required, then
in the event, the wrecker service which would be next up on the rotation roster
shall be called that can provide the storage within the city limits.
   (E)   The Chief of Police, in the event that the wrecker service is unable
to provide the required storage in the city, may, if equitable, place the
wrecker service unable to provided the storage service on the rotation roster
to be next up unless the number of members of the rotation roster becomes too
large and makes the operation of the rotation list too cumbersome.
(Ord. 102-91, passed 12-18-90)
CHAPTER 112: PERMITS
Section
   
112.01   Roofing work
   
112.02   Tree trimming
§ 112.01 ROOFING WORK.
   From and after the passage of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm, or corporation to perform for compensation any roofing work in
the city without first obtaining a permit from the city. The fee for the permit
is established in the city's fee schedule. It is further provided that any
person, firm, or corporation performing roofing work shall cover all roof decks
with approved roof coverings secured to the building or structure with the
provisions of Chapter 15 of the International Building Code (IBC). Roof
coverings shall be designed, installed, and maintained in accordance with the
IBC and the approved manufacturers installation instructions such that the roof
covering shall serve to protect the building or structure. Roof decks and roof
coverings shall be designed for wind loads in accordance with Chapter 16 of the
IBC and per Figure 1609 of the Code.
(Ord. 101-09, passed 3-17-09; Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 112.02 TREE TRIMMING.
   (A)   From and after the passage of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person, firm, or corporation to perform for compensation any tree trimming,
tree cutting, and/or tree removals within the city without obtaining a permit
from the city. The fee for the permit can be referenced on the City of Sweeny's
master fee schedule.
   (B)   If the homeowner lives in the home and it is their homestead, they can
complete trimming and removals on their property themselves without obtaining a
permit.
   (C)   If the property owner compensates someone for the work or hires a
third party and/or contractor, the contractor must obtain a permit.
   (D)   Tree contractors must obtain permit prior to work being commenced. All
tree trimmings and/or removals must be hauled off by the contractor within city
limits.
(Ord. 101-09, passed 3-17-09; Am. Ord. 104-22, passed 4-19-22)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOL SALES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Retail sale of beer and wine for off-premises consumption
   
113.03   Beer, wine and mixed beverages for on-premises consumption
   
113.04   Possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages in public places
   
113.05   Prohibited near churches, schools, or hospitals
   
113.06   License and permit fees
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any and
all terms used in this chapter shall, unless otherwise expressly provided
herein, be defined as provided in V.T.C.A., Alcoholic Beverage Code, §§ 1.01 et
seq.
   CAFÉ or RESTAURANT. Any retail business establishment principally, at all
times, engaged in offering to the public and selling on the premises retail
food prepared for immediate consumption and where the sale and consumption of
beer is only incidental to the operation of such café or restaurant. In any
action tried in the municipal court or any other court of competent
jurisdiction, proof that more than 50% of the gross sales of any such business
during any calendar quarter is derived from the sale of beer alone shall be
prima facie proof that such business is not a café or restaurant, and proof
that more than 50% of the gross sales of food by such business in any calendar
quarter is derived from the sale of food on such premises to be consumed off
such premises shall likewise be prima facie proof that such business is not a
café or restaurant; however, any such prime facie evidence my be rebutted by
any party to such action.
   LICENSE. Any beer license granted by the state to any person pursuant to
V.T.C.A., Alcoholic Beverage Code.
   PERMIT. Any liquor permit granted by the state to any person pursuant to
V.T.C.A., Alcoholic Beverage Code.
(Ord. 109-08, passed 9-23-08; Am. Ord. 23-104, passed 6-26-23)
§ 113.02 RETAIL SALE OF BEER AND WINE FOR OFF-PREMISES CONSUMPTION.
   The sale of beer or malt beverages and wine for off-premises consumption is
authorized upon compliance with the terms in this chapter.
(Ord. 23-104, passed 6-26-23)
§ 113.03 BEER, WINE AND MIXED BEVERAGES FOR ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION.
   The sale of beer or malt beverages, wine and mixed beverages for on-premises
consumption is permitted in restaurants by food and beverage certificate
holders only in accordance with the rules established by the Texas Alcoholic
Beverage Commission and Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code.
(Ord. 23-104, passed 6-26-23)
§ 113.04 POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or consume any
alcoholic beverage upon any portion of any public playground or park inside any
enclosure, field or stadium where athletic events or practices are being
conducted; upon any portion of the campus of any public school in the city; or
upon any other property owned or controlled by the city.
   (B)   It is an exception to the application of division (A) above and
alcohol shall be allowed on city-owned or controlled property if and only if
the City Council grants a variance for the specific use being proposed or has
adopted a written policy which otherwise regulates the possession or
consumption of alcohol on the city-owned or controlled property.
(Ord. 109-08, passed 9-23-08; Am. Ord. 106-11, passed 9-20-11; Am. Ord. 23-104,
passed 6-26-23) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 PROHIBITED NEAR CHURCHES, SCHOOLS OR HOSPITALS.
   (A)   A person may not sell or engage in the business of selling an
alcoholic beverage at a place of business that is located within a commercial
zone in accordance with the city's zoning ordinance if such location is within
15 feet of a church, public hospital, public or private school or child care
facility, except as provided in the Alcoholic Beverage Code.
   (B)   Distances under this section shall be calculated using the method
prescribed by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code.
(Ord. 23-104, passed 6-26-23)
§ 113.06 LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The city does hereby levy a license fee pursuant to the fee schedule
of the City of Sweeny on every person permitted by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage
Code unless prohibited by state law.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to conduct any unlicensed business or to conduct
any business in the city for which a license is required by the Texas Alcoholic
Beverage Code and this section.
   (C)   A permit fee shall be assessed on every person doing business in the
city as set forth on the fee schedule of the City of Sweeny and on every person
permitted by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code unless prohibited by state law.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to conduct any unpermitted business or to conduct
any business in the city for which a permit is required by the Texas Alcoholic
Beverage Code and this section.
(Ord. 23-104, passed 6-26-23)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who commits any of the following shall
be guilty of an offense:
      (1)   Any violation of this chapter; or
      (2)   Providing false information to a city official concerning licensing
or permitting under this chapter or compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Each day or portion of a day during which any violation occurs or
continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 109-08, passed 9-23-08; Ord. 23-104, passed 6-26-23)
CHAPTER 114: RESERVED
 
CHAPTER 115: MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Permit requirements
   
115.02   Temporary food establishments
   
115.03   Permanent food establishments
   
115.04   Food permit fees
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall operate a mobile food establishment, whether temporary or
permanent, without first obtaining a permit issued by the city. The fee for
this permit shall be established by the permanently adopted fee schedule of the
city. The following regulations shall apply to all permits granted under this
section.
   (A)   All permits shall be issued on an annual basis and shall expire and/or
renew upon the first day of each calendar year.
   (B)   Prior to issuing the permit, the city shall inspect the proposed food
establishment to determine that it complies with state laws and regulations.
   (C)   The regulating authority shall suspend the permit if violations of the
Tex. Health and Safety Code Chapter 437 and/or Tex. Admin. Code, Title 25, §
229.161 are found; and/or if the violation creates and immediate threat to the
health and safety of the public.
   (D)   The food vendor permit shall be displayed on the mobile food unit at
all times.
(Ord. 107-20, passed 12-15-20; Am. Ord. 24-102, passed 5-21-24)
§ 115.02 TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food establishment that operates for a
temporary period of time which has a fee specified on the city's master fee
schedule, and not the annual fee specified in §
115.01, which is payable prior to operating the temporary food establishment.
Fees are not prorated, are non-refundable and subject to change. All fees are
established by City Council.
   (B)   A temporary food establishment must obtain a temporary permit prior to
setting up. An application for a temporary food establishment must be submitted
seven days prior to the designated time for the permitted use. Types of
temporary food establishment permits are:
      (1)   Twenty-four-hour temporary mobile food establishment: 24 hour
permit only. A food establishment that operates for a period of no more than 24
hours at one time and which has a day rate fee.
      (2)   Push cart/roadside vendor only: annual permit. Sno-cone trucks/
vendors, ice cream trucks/vendors. If push carts or roadside vendors are
parking/establishing business at a location for any amount of time, division
(F) will apply.
   (C)   A permitted unit must be readily moveable as stated under the Texas
food establishment rules as adopted and amended under Texas Health and Safety
Code Chapter 437. A mobile food establishment means an operator of a vehicle
mounted, self or otherwise propelled, self-contained food service operation
designed to be readily moveable (including but not limited to catering trucks,
trailers, push carts and roadside vendors) and used to store, prepare, display,
serve or sell food that requires temperature control.
   (D)   No city utilities will be available.
   (E)   A temporary food establishment is only allowed to establish operations
within a commercial, industrial or institutionally zoned area. The City Manager
or his or her designee has the discretion to determine all permitted locations.
   (F)   Permission from the property owner of a specified location is required
in a signed written statement which is to be presented at the time of the
application with dates of usage specified. Any time the location is subject to
change, a new permit must be issued with the new location's letter of property
owner's written statement.
   (G)   Any application for a temporary food establishment must include a
Brazoria County Environmental Health Department permit.
(Ord. 107-20, passed 12-15-20; Am. Ord. 23-109, passed 10-24-23)
§ 115.03 PERMANENT FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Food trucks and/or trailers are an operation that stores, prepares,
packages, serves, or otherwise provides food for human consumption such as: a
food service; an operation that is conducted in a permanent facility or
location where consumption is on or off the premises; and regardless of whether
there is a charge for the food and as further defined under Tex. Admin. Code
Title 25, § 229.371(6). Prior to operating as a permanent food truck or food
trailer as provided above, all owners or operator shall:
      (1)   Obtain a permit prior to setup to include the generalized annual
registration fee due at the beginning of each calendar year. The City of Sweeny
does not pro-rate registrations and all fees are nonrefundable;
      (2)   Be located in a commercially zoned area and property must be owned
by the food establishment applicant and owner;
      (3)   Provide sales tax ID naming the City of Sweeny as the origin of
sale; and
      (4)   Be connected to the City of Sweeny water and sewer system in a
manner that complies with the current codes of the City of Sweeny and setup
required utility account.
   (B)   All food establishments must adhere to the adopted International Fire
Code, adopted National Fire Protection Association, the adopted International
Building Code, city ordinances for connection of utilities, Texas Health and
Safety Code, Texas Administrative Code, Texas Water Code, Texas Department of
State Health Services, and the Brazoria County Health Department. Applications
shall be obtained and submitted to the Building Department for possible permit
issuance adhering to the above codes and are also to include the following, but
not limited to:
      (1)   Backflow preventers shall be installed prior to water connection as
stated in §
151.07 and the International Building Code.
      (2)   Grease traps shall be installed prior to sewer connection if any
frying is permitted by the Fire Marshal.
      (3)   Food establishment must remove wheels and be tied down in
accordance with the current city codes.
      (4)   Food establishment shall be fully skirted.
      (5)   Commercial compliance of ADA restrooms and hand washing station;
including plans as stated in the IBC, or a property form filled out by
neighboring business within 200 feet allowing permission of restrooms to be
used by establishments employees and customers.
      (6)   The minimum acceptable surfacing for the unit's pad and parking
shall consist of a minimum of eight inches compacted sand-stabilized shell
limestone, or lime-stabilized crushed aggregate base meeting State Department
of Highways specifications or a minimum of six inches reinforced concrete
pavement (3,000 P.S.I.) reinforced concrete (§
152.51(B)(l)) and shall be accessible to Fire Department apparatus and capable
of supporting the imposed load of fire apparatus (International Fire Code,
Appendix D).
      (7)   Permanent locations must include a minimum of five parking spaces.
Each space must be a minimum of nine feet by 18 feet, as determined in the
Zoning Ordinance under § 10-162(24).
   (C)   All permanent mobile food establishments must submit Brazoria County
health inspection report approval and City of Sweeny Fire Marshal inspection
report approval upon application submittal.
(Ord. 107-20, passed 12-15-20)
§ 115.04 FOOD PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Temporary and permanent mobile food establishments seeking a permit
under the provisions of the mobile food establishment sections as provided
herein shall pay an application fee as set in the city's master fee schedule.
The fee shall be paid by the person desiring the permit and is payable at the
time of the application.
   (B)   The city, at its sole discretion, may waive fees for any city
sponsored event with the request for waiver being received by the city at least
60 days prior to the event. All temporary food establishment requirements must
be met per the city ordinance in order for any fees to be waived.
(Ord. 107-20, passed 12-15-20; Am. Ord. 23-109, passed 10-24-23)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor upon conviction and in accordance with Tex. Loc. Gov't Code §
54.001. Each day shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 107-20, passed 12-15-20)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Reserved
   
130.02   Damage to property
   
130.03   Loitering
   
130.04   Placing signs, posters and the like
   
130.05   Weapons, firearms and the like
   
130.06   Arson; reward
   
130.07   Eight-liner machines prohibited
   
130.08   Residency of sexual offenders
   
130.09   Sound-generating devices in vehicles
   
130.10   Protests near funerals
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 RESERVED.
§ 130.02 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to:
      (1)   Destroy, damage or harm in any manner or to aid in the destruction,
damage or harm of any city property, either real or personal, including by way
of illustration and not limitation, locks of any type owned by or controlled by
the city, fences owned or controlled by the city or any city-owned or
controlled signs;
      (2)   Enter into or upon the city, sanitary land fill site at any time
that the sanitary land fill site is closed to public use, or for any person,
firm or corporation to enter upon the sanitary land fill site who is not a bona
fide resident of the city;
      (3)   Cause the deposit of garbage or other refuse or waste property in,
upon or around the city, sanitary land fill site which is accumulated from any
area outside the corporate city limits;
      (4)   Dump any garbage, brush, metal or other refuse at any place upon or
around the city sanitary land fill site other than in the manner and place or
places designated by the person in actual control of the sanitary land fill
site;
      (5)   Use the sanitary land fill site of the city in any manner or the
property located thereupon in any manner unless the person is a bona fide
resident citizen of the city and/or has been authorized by the city officials
to do so;
      (6)   Harm, damage, injure or tamper with any equipment, building or
other property situated upon the sanitary land fill site; and
      (7)   Dump or abandon any garbage, trash, debris, brush or other material
upon the public roadway, right-of-way at or near the city sanitary land fill
site.
   (B)   The fact that city property and private property is being damaged and/
or destroyed, that garbage and refuse is being dumped and abandoned near the
city sanitary land fill site causing a hazard to the public health, creates an
emergency and an urgent public necessity that any law or ordinance requiring
more than reading of an ordinance, or the passage thereof at more than one
meeting of the City Council be suspended, and that the law, rule or ordinances
is hereby suspended and this chapter shall be effective from and after its
passage as an emergency measure.
(Ord. 217, passed 10-7-75)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.03 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.04 PLACING SIGNS, POSTERS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, their agent,
agents, servant, servants, employee or employees to place any sign, poster,
placard and/or any other advertising and/or information within or upon the
public rights-of-way of the city, without first having made application for and
having received a permit from the City Council to place same in and/or upon the
public right-of- way.
   (B)   Any person placing the signs, posters, placards and/or other
advertising material and/or information in and upon the public rights-of-way
aforesaid shall be conclusively presumed to be the agent of the person, firm or
corporation causing same to be placed in or upon the public right-of-way.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to direct
his, her or its signs, posters, placards and/or information in and upon the
public rights-of-way of the city, without having made application for and
secured a permit to do so from the City Council, and the fact that the sign,
poster, placard and/or other advertising material and/or information of the
person, firm or corporation is upon or in the public right-of-way shall create
a presumption that same was placed upon or in same under direction of the
person, firm or corporation.
(Ord. 110, passed 11-20-62)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.05 WEAPONS, FIREARMS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or cause the firing of, any
pistol, rifle, shotgun, air rifle or gun, pellet gun, slingshot or other
instrumentality designed to fire or cast projectile within the city limits of
the city. This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer when he
or she is engaged in the lawful performance of his or her duties of office.
(Ord. 65, passed 11-5-58; Am. Ord. 65A, passed 6-2-60)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.06 ARSON; REWARD.
   (A)   The City Council hereby establishes and offers a standing reward of
$250 for the arrest and conviction of any person or persons found guilty of
committing the crime of arson within the incorporated city limits. The
foregoing reward shall be paid from the General Fund of the city.
   (B)   The Director of Public Utilities is hereby directed to cause place
cards eight inches by 12 inches showing the above reward is offered, to be
placed in wooden frames under glass in at least six different public buildings,
forthwith.
   (C)   A certified copy of this section, together with one of the place cards
described in division (B) above, together with a list of the buildings in which
the place cards were posted shall forthwith be furnished to the State Board of
Insurance by the City Secretary.
(Ord. passed 1-3-67)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.07 EIGHT-LINER MACHINES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EIGHT-LINER or EIGHT-LINER MACHINE. A coin-operated machine or
contrivance capable of being used for games of chance, including but not
limited to, a Tic-Tac-Toe eight-liner or video poker machine or other
contrivance or paraphernalia, on which games of chance can be played for a
consideration and which afford the player an opportunity to win a prize, gift
certificate or thing of value, whether or not the prize is automatically paid
by the contrivance, having a wholesale value available from a single play of
the game or device once or $5, whichever is less, but excluding the machines
listed in § 2153.004 of the Texas Occupations Code.
      GAME ROOM FOR EIGHT-LINERS. Any building or portion thereof, used for the
exhibition or displaying of eight-liners.
   (B)   Eight-liners prohibited.
      (1)   Eight-liners are prohibited within the city.
      (2)   Game rooms for eight-liners are prohibited within the city.
   (C)   Affirmative defense. In any prosecution under this section, it is an
affirmative defense if the owner or operator of the alleged unlawful eight-
liner machines had placed or located said machines in the city on or before the
date of the passage of this section.
(Ord. 105-04, passed 3-16-04; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 3-20-07)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.08 RESIDENCY OF SEXUAL OFFENDERS.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   Repeat sexual offenders, sexual offenders that use physical
violence, and sexual offenders who prey on children are sexual predators who
present an extreme threat to the public safety. Sexual offenders are extremely
likely to use physical violence and to repeat their offenses and most sexual
offenders commit many offenses, have many more victims than are ever reported,
and are prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes. This makes the cost of
sexual offender victimization to society at large, while incalculable, clearly
exorbitant.
      (2)   It is the intent of this section to serve the city's compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers wherein certain sexual offenders
and sexual predators are prohibited from establishing temporary or permanent
residences.
   (B)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges or resides
for 14 or more consecutive days.
      TEMPORARY RESIDENCE.  A place where the person abides, lodges or resides
for a period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and
which is not the person's permanent address, or a place where the person
routinely abides, resides or lodges for a period of four or more consecutive or
nonconsecutive days in any month and which is not the person's permanent
residence.
   (C)   Sexual offenders residence prohibition; penalties; exceptions.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person who has been convicted of a violation
of Tex. Pen. Code, §§ 21.08, 21.11, 22.011, 22.021, 25.02, 43.25 and 43.26
regardless of whether the adjudication was deferred, in which the victim of the
offense was less than 16 years of age, to establish a permanent residence or
temporary residence within 1,000 feet of any premises where children commonly
gather, including but not limited to, a school, day care facility, playground,
public or private youth center, public swimming pool, or video arcade facility,
as those terms are defined in Tex. Health & Safety Code, § 481.134.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining the minimum distance separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the permanent or temporary residence to the nearest property
line of the premises where children commonly gather, as described herein.
      (3)   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation who violates division
(C)(1) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.
      (4)   Exceptions. A person residing within 1,000 feet of those places
where children commonly gather, as specified herein, does not commit a
violation of this section if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person established the permanent or temporary residence and
has complied with all the sex offender registration laws of the State of Texas,
prior to the date of the adoption of this section.
         (b)   The person was a minor when he or she committed the offense and
was not convicted as an adult.
         (c)   The person is a minor.
         (d)   The premises where children commonly gather, as specified
herein, within 1,000 feet of the person's permanent or temporary residence was
opened after the person established the permanent or temporary residence and
complied with all sex offender registration laws of the State of Texas.
   (D)   Property owners prohibited from renting real property to sexual
offenders; penalties.
      (1)   It is unlawful to let or rent any place, structure or part thereof,
manufactured home, trailer, or other conveyance, with the knowledge that it
will be used as a permanent residence or temporary residence by any person
prohibited from establishing such permanent residence or temporary residence
pursuant to the terms of this section, if such place, structure or part
thereof, manufactured home, trailer, or other conveyance, is located within
1,000 feet of any premises where children commonly gather, including but not
limited to, a school, day care facility, playground, public or private youth
center, public swimming pool, or video arcade facility, as those terms are
defined in Tex. Health & Safety Code, § 481.134.
      (2)   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation who violates division
(D)(1) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 103-06, passed 4-25-06)
§ 130.09 SOUND-GENERATING DEVICES IN VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in either a public or private
place within the city, to operate any electronic sound-generating device from a
vehicle in a manner so that the sound generated by such device causes
vibrations in objects, persons or structures that are noticed by a person
outside of the vehicle.
   (B)   In any prosecution under division (A) of this section, it is an
affirmative defense if:
      (1)   The electronic sound-generating device is a horn being used in the
manner required by the Texas Transportation Code;
      (2)   The vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle as defined in the
Texas Transportation Code; or
      (3)   The vehicle is in a parade and a permit for the parade has been
obtained in accordance with the ordinances of the city.
   (C)   A culpable mental state is not required for the commission of an
offense under this section.
(Ord. 102-07, passed 2-20-07)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.10 PROTESTS NEAR FUNERALS.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to serve the city’s
compelling interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city by creating areas around locations where
military, fire fighters, police, emergency medical services personnel and any
and all first responders’ funerals are taking place to provide a safe and quiet
area for families to mourn their loss.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining the minimum distance separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the area where the funeral service, procession or cemetery
service is taking place.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in a protest
within 1,000 feet of any funeral service or any portion of a funeral service
within the city, for one hour before the service begins until one hour after
the service is concluded.
(Ord. 102-11, passed 3-15-11) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to
§ 10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any minor who violates
§ 130.01(D)(1) three or more times within any 24-month period shall be referred
for appropriate action by a juvenile court in accordance with Tex. Fam. Code
Chs. 51 and 52.
      (2)   A parent, guardian and/or custodian of a minor who violates
§ 130.01(D)(1) and (2) will, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to
exceed $500.
      (3)   A commercial establishment owner or operator who violates
§ 130.01(D)(3) will, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
130.07 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (D)   Any person who violates §
130.09(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (E)   Any person who violates §
130.10 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 101-95, passed 10-18-94; Am. Ord. 102-07, passed 2-20-07; Am. Ord. 103-
07, passed 3-20-07; Am. Ord. 102-11, passed 3-15-11)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
         
151.   MANUFACTURED HOMES AND HOME PARKS; RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
         
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
153.   FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
         
154.   WELLHEAD PROTECTION
         
155.   ZONING
         
156.   SIGNS
         
157.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY SITING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Levees and improvements; construction
   
150.02   Building numbering
   
150.03   Fences
   
150.04   Exterior security cameras
Adoption of Codes
   
150.15   International Building Code
   
150.16   International Plumbing, Mechanical and Gas Codes
   
150.17   National Electric Code
   
150.18   Swimming pool and detention/retention pond fence requirements
   
150.19   International Energy Code
   
150.20   International Residential Building Code
   
150.21   International Property Maintenance Code
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.30   Establishment of regulations
   
150.31   Definitions
   
150.32   Declaration of nuisance; enforcement
   
150.33   Inspection of buildings
   
150.34   Notice to repair
   
150.35   Sufficiency of notice
   
150.36   Public hearing
   
150.37   Assessment of expenses and penalties
   
150.38   Posting warnings
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of International Fire Code, see §
94.30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 LEVEES AND IMPROVEMENTS; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct,
maintain, attempt to construct or maintain any levee or other improvement on,
along or near any stream of the state within the corporate city limits that is
subject to floods, freshets or overflows so as to control, regulate or
otherwise change the flood water of the stream without first having obtained
approval of the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council hereby require that as a condition precedent to the
obtaining of a hermit that any application for permit be submitted to the
Director of Public Service of the city, along with the plans and specifications
for the project. All applications shall be submitted at least five days prior
to any meeting of the City Council.
   (C)   The city of Sweeny, Texas having qualified for the National Flood
Insurance Program, Title 42 USC 4001 through 4127, hereby specifically provides
that the plans and specifications shall be required to be in substantial
compliance with the rules and standards adopted by the Water Development Board
of the state, as the same now exist or may be hereafter amended. The rules
pertaining to the matter are now found in Chapter X of the Texas Department of
Water Resource’s Permanent Rules.
(Ord. 279, passed 9-18-79)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.02 BUILDING NUMBERING.
   (A)   From and after the date of this section, all business establishments,
residences and public buildings with the City of Sweeny, Texas, shall be
numbered in accordance with the system provided by the City of Sweeny, Texas,
and shall have placed on the front of the building a street number of a size
and color legible enough to be seen by the public from the street in front of
the building, with the minimum size of the number to be in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of all buildings used for
residential, public, business, commerce and industry in the city to have place
thereon, in a place visible from the street in front of such building, figures
in Arabic numerals or letters at least four inches high, showing the number of
the house or building. Any person failing to so number any new house, new
building or other new structure built or constructed by him or her, by the date
of final inspection by the building inspector, shall be punished in accordance
with the general penal provisions of the code of ordinances of the City of
Sweeny, Texas.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every property owner of existing buildings
used for residential, public, business, commerce and industry in the city, on
or before January 31, 2003, to purchase and display in a conspicuous place on
the building, the number assigned, which shall be in Arabic numerals or letters
at least four inches high, showing the number of the house or building. Any
person failing to so number any house, building, or other structure owned or
occupied by him or her, after receiving 30 days written notice to do so from
the Code Enforcement Officer, shall be punished as provided in the general
penal provisions of the City of Sweeny Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 100-03, passed 11-19-02)
§ 150.03 FENCES.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who desires to construct a fence
within the city shall make application for a fence permit with the Building
Official of the City of Sweeny. The application shall state the name and
address of the applicant, the location of the property to be fenced, the type
of materials to be used in the fence construction, and the dates of the
proposed construction. A fee as set in the city's fee schedule shall be charged
for the permit. Before granting the permit, the Building Official shall ensure
that the proposed fence complies with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Any fence constructed pursuant to this section shall be constructed of
materials commonly intended for use in a residential or commercial fence, such
as wood, vinyl, chain link or brick, or other materials deemed to be commonly
accepted fencing materials by the Building Official.
   (C)   Materials which may be hazardous when used as fencing, especially
materials which may be hazardous during strong winds from a hurricane or
tropical storm, are prohibited as fencing materials. Examples of prohibited
material are sheet metal or tin or other such materials.
   (D)   Because of the danger to the public health and safety, any fence in
existence on the date of this section which is constructed from materials which
are prohibited in division (C) hereof, are prohibited from and after the date
of this section. Any such prohibited fences which are identified by the
Building Official as being in existence on the date of this section, shall be
removed by the property owner or occupant within 90 days of the date of a
notice to remove the fence being sent to the name and address of the property
as determined by the tax rolls of Brazoria County, Texas, as well as to any
occupant of the property so identified. A failure to remove the fence after the
mailing of the notice or notices required herein, shall warrant the filing of a
complaint in the Sweeny Municipal Court for violation of this section. All
fences constructed prior to the date of this section which are not constructed
from materials deemed to be in violation of division (C) hereof, are exempt
from its provisions.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation who is found guilty of violating any
provisions of this section by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in accordance with the General Penalty
Provisions of §
10.99 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Sweeny, Texas.
(Ord. 100-04, passed 10-21-03; Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 150.04 EXTERIOR SECURITY CAMERAS.
   (A)   Apartment complexes, being any building or group of buildings, or
portion thereof, which is designed, built, rented, leased, let or hired out to
be occupied as greater than four dwelling units or which is occupied as the
home or residence of greater than four families living independently from each
other and maintaining separate cooking facilities shall, from and after the
date of this section, have a digital high resolution surveillance camera system
sufficient to provide an overall view from the exterior of the building to the
property line. The camera system must include all parking areas, gate entries
and exit points, building doorways and exterior spaces.
   (B)   Any contractor who installs security cameras pursuant to this section
shall obtain a permit from the city for each installation. A detailed location
of each camera must be provided to the city Police Department or Fire Marshall,
as well as the make and model of each camera and the camera system. The city
Police Department or the Fire Marshal shall make regular inspections of the
positioning of the cameras installed pursuant to this section to ensure that
they continue to comply with division (C).
   (C)   It is specifically provided that exterior cameras may be placed in
common outdoor areas like entrances, exits, driveways, sidewalks, parking lots,
hallways, lobbies, courtyards and stairwells. Cameras may not be pointed
towards windows, balconies and other areas where tenants have a reasonable
expectation of privacy. Cameras may not be installed inside tenants units or
other areas with a reasonable expectation of privacy, including but not limited
to bathrooms, changing rooms and bedrooms.
   (D)   Each camera system shall display the date and time of the recording
for each camera. The camera system must be capable of providing a digital image
with a minimum resolution of two megapixels, a minimum aspect ratio of 1920
horizontal pixels by 1080 vertical pixels and a minimum frame rate of 30 frames
per second. The camera system shall have wide dynamic range capabilities. The
camera system shall be capable of exporting video footage in a non-proprietary
MPEG-4 format.
   (E)   Each camera system shall be maintained in proper working order at all
times. Each camera system shall be operating at all times, including hours when
the facility is not open for business.
   (F)   The owner of any apartment complex defined in this section shall
within 72 hours of a request made in accordance with applicable law, provide
digital color video footage in connection with crime investigations to any
State of Texas law enforcement agency or federal law enforcement agency. Camera
video data must be transferred to these organizations via a USB drive,
electronic mail or digital file sharing transfer. Other than the providing
video footage to law enforcement as provided herein, apartment complex owners
shall limit access to security camera footage to prevent misuse and protect
tenant privacy.
   (G)   The owner or operator shall maintain a library of the recorded digital
footage for not less than 30 days.
   (H)   A business subject to the requirements of this section shall have
posted at all public exits and entrances, signs or decals indicating that
surveillance cameras are in use. In addition, all apartment complexes shall
inform tenants about the presence of security cameras and by placing such
notification into the tenant's lease agreement. All cameras placed pursuant to
this section shall be visible and noticeable.
   (I)   Any person who shall willfully, intentionally or with criminal
negligence violate any provision of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined in an amount of not more than $500. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 25-111, passed 9-16-25)
ADOPTION OF CODES
§ 150.15 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the construction,
alteration, removal, demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and
maintenance of buildings and structures, there is hereby adopted by and for the
City of Sweeny, Texas, that certain building code known as the 2015
International Building Code, including Appendix Chapters, together with all
amendments thereto which are now or may be in the future adopted or recommended
by the International Code Council, Inc., and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of the International Building Code
are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out
herein, which code is published in book form and which is referred to,
incorporated herein and made a part hereof for all purposes. It is ordered that
a copy of the code is to be filed on record in the office of the City Secretary
of the City of Sweeny, Texas. It is provided however, that in the event any
conflict may arise between the provisions of the building code adopted herein
and any other applicable provision of state law or city ordinance, rule or
regulation, the provisions of state law or city ordinance, rule or regulation
shall prevail and be controlling.
(Ord. 106-95, passed 11-15-94; Am. Ord. 101-03, passed 11-19-02; Am. Ord. 103-
21, passed 7-20-21)
§ 150.16 INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING, MECHANICAL AND GAS CODES.
   (A)   It is the desire of the City Council to adopt, in all respects,
various international codes, including the Plumbing Code, the Mechanical Code
and the Gas Code, all as promulgated by the Southern Building Code Congress
International to facilitate proper inspection facilities of the city.
   (B)   The city hereby adopts the International Plumbing Code, 2015 edition;
the International Mechanical Code, 2015 edition; and the International Fuel Gas
Code, 2015 edition; by reference as though they were copies herein fully.
(Ord. 103-97, passed 2-18-97; Am. Ord. 103-21, passed 7-20-21)
§ 150.17 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE.
   (A)   It is the desire of the City Council to adopt, in all respects, a
standard electric code, as promulgated by the National Fire Protection
Association, to facilitate proper inspection activities by the city.
   (B)   The city hereby adopts the National Electric Code, 2014 edition, by
reference as though it was fully copied herein.
   (C)   It is hereby ordered that any matters in the Code which are contrary
to existing ordinances of the city shall prevail, and that existing ordinances
are hereby repealed and, to that extent, any existing ordinances to the
contrary are hereby repealed to that extent only.
   (D)   It is further ordered that within the Code, when reference is made to
the duties of a certain official named therein, that designated official of the
city, who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in the Code
shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the
provisions of the Code are concerned.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of the National Electric Code, 2014
edition, adopted herein, the city hereby amends the code to provide that, at a
minimum, EMT conduit shall be required in all commercial buildings with
separate ground wire.
(Ord. 105-97, passed 7-15-97; Am. Ord. 103-21, passed 7-20-21)
§ 150.18 SWIMMING POOL AND DETENTION/RETENTION POND FENCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms, phrases, when used in this
section shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
      DETENTION/RETENTION POND. A detention/retention pond is a basin that is
designed to catch runoff water from higher elevation areas which are used to
prevent or minimize flooding during high water periods.
      SWIMMING POOL. Any pool used for swimming or bathing over 24 inches in
depth or with a surface area exceeding 200 square feet.
   (B)   Fence requirements for swimming pools and detention/retention ponds.
Every person in possession of land within the city, either in the capacity of
owner, purchaser under contract, lessee, tenant or licensee, upon which there
is situated a swimming pool or a detention/retention pond shall at all times
maintain a fence, wall or other enclosure not less than four feet in height
completely surrounding such swimming pool or detention/retention pond and
effectively denying accidental entrance into the pool or detention/retention
pond by any person. During the period of construction, all swimming pools or
detention/retention ponds shall be barricaded or safely covered with mesh,
netting or other effective covering to deny accidental entrance until the
construction is concluded.
   (C)   Minimum size of openings. No openings, holes or gaps shall be
permitted in any fence required by the provisions of this section larger than
four inches in width.
   (D)   Gates and doors - latching device required. All gates and door
openings directly into any fence required by the provisions of this section
shall be equipped with latching devices designed to keep and being capable of
keeping such doors or gates securely closed at all times when not in actual
use. Such latching device shall be attached not less than 3 1/2 feet from the
bottom of such gate or door. The door of any dwelling, not including any
attached or unattached garage, occupied by human beings and forming any part of
a fence or other enclosure required by this section need not be equipped with
such latching devices required by this section.
   (E)   Kept fastened or latched. Every person in possession of land on which
there is situated a fence shall keep the gates or doors thereto securely
fastened or latched at all times except whenever such door or gate is being
used by such persons, his agent, servant, employee or invitee for entrance into
such fenced enclosure. Upon such entry into such enclosure or exit therefrom,
such person shall keep such gates or door securely fastened or latched.
   (F)   Penalty. Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $500.
(Ord. 106-12, passed 8-21-12; Am. Ord. 101-15, passed 12-16-14)
§ 150.19 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CODE.
   The city hereby adopts the 2015 International Energy Code by reference as if
fully set out herein. It is provided however, that in the event any conflict
may arise between the provisions of the Code adopted herein and any other
applicable provision of state law or city ordinance, rule or regulation, the
provisions of state law or city ordinance, rule or regulation shall prevail and
be controlling.
(Ord. 103-21, passed 7-20-21)
§ 150.20 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE.
   The city hereby adopts the 2015 International Residential Building Code by
reference as if fully set out herein. It is provided however, that in the event
any conflict may arise between the provisions of the Code adopted herein and
any other applicable provision of state law or city ordinance, rule or
regulation, the provisions of state law or city ordinance, rule or regulation
shall prevail and be controlling.
(Ord. 103-21, passed 7-20-21)
§ 150.21 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City
Secretary of the City of Sweeny, Texas, being marked and designated as the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Sweeny, Texas. This Code shall regulate and
govern the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures
by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary, and fit for occupancy and use. Said Code shall also provide
regulations for the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human
occupancy and use and for the demolition of such existing structures as
provided in said Code. All of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions, and terms of said Code which is hereby referred to herein are
adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out herein, which code is
published in book form. It is ordered that a copy of the Code is to be filed of
record in the office of the City Secretary of the City of Sweeny, Texas. It is
provided, however, that in the event any conflict may arise between the
provisions of the International Property Maintenance Code adopted herein and
any other applicable provision of state law or city ordinance, rule or
regulation, the provisions of state law or city ordinance, rule or regulation
shall prevail and be controlling.
(Ord. 22-112, passed 9-20-22)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   The City Council hereby establishes the requirements contained herein for
the regulation of unsafe buildings located in the city.
(Ord. 103-95, passed 10-25-94)
§ 150.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The owner, occupant or person in custody of the building
or structure.
   UNSAFE BUILDING.
      (1)   Any building or structure in or about which any or all of the
following conditions exist:
         (a)   Walls or other vertical structural members list, lean or buckle;
         (b)   Damage or deterioration exists to the extent that the building
is unsafe;
         (c)   Loads of floors or roofs are improperly distributed or the
floors or roofs are of insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purposes used;
         (d)   Damage by fire, wind or other cause has rendered the building or
structure dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general health and welfare
of the occupants or the people of the city;
         (e)   The building or structure is so dilapidated, substandard,
decayed, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise lacking in the amenities essential to
decent living that the same is unfit for human habitation or is likely to cause
sickness, disease or injury or otherwise to constitute a detriment to the
health, morals, safety or general welfare of those persons assembled, working
or living therein or is a hazard to the public health, safety and welfare;
         (f)   Light, air and sanitation facilities are inadequate to protect
the health, morals, safety or general welfare of persons who assemble, work or
live therein;
         (g)   Stairways, fire escapes and other facilities of egress incase of
fire or panic are inadequate;
         (h)   Parts or appendages of the building or structure are so attached
that they are likely to fall and injure persons or property; and/or
         (i)   A condition exists in violation of the standards set forth in
this subsection (1) which condition renders the building or structure unsafe,
unsanitary or otherwise detrimental to the health, safety, morals or welfare of
the people of the city.
      (2)   A responsible party may continue to use and occupy any building
located within the city, regardless of the date the building was constructed if
the building meets the applicable minimum standards for buildings prescribed in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 103-95, passed 10-25-94)
§ 150.32 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit the
existence of any unsafe building in the city and it shall be unlawful for any
person to permit sere to remain in the condition.
   (B)   All unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be public nuisances and
shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance
with the procedures provided in this subchapter.
   (C)   The Building Official shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 103-95, passed 10-25-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.33 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS.
   The Building Official shall inspect, or cause to be inspected, every
building, or portion thereof, reported to be unsafe. If the building, or any
portion thereof, is determined to be unsafe, the Building Official shall give
the responsible party notice in accordance with the requirements set forth in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 103-95, passed 10-25-94)
§ 150.34 NOTICE TO REPAIR.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Official determines that a building is unsafe,
he or she shall give notice of the determination to the responsible party.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Identify the specific conditions upon which the determination was
based;
      (3)   Specify the corrective measures required;
      (4)   Provide a reasonable time for compliance;
      (5)   Advise the responsible party that there will be conducted a public
hearing before the City Council to determine whether a building complies with
the standards set out in this subchapter; and (The notice shall inform the
responsible party of the date, time and place of the hearing.)
      (6)   The notice be served upon the responsible party as set out in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 103-95, passed 10-25-94)
§ 150.35 SUFFICIENCY OF NOTICE.
   Notice given pursuant to this subchapter shall be deemed properly served
upon the responsible party if a copy thereof is:
   (A)   Served upon him or her personally;
   (B)   Sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the person, as shown on the records of the city; or
   (C)   Posted in a conspicuous place in or about the building affected by the
notice.
(Ord. 103-95, passed 10-25-94)
§ 150.36 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The purpose of the public hearing is to determine whether or not the
building is unsafe in accordance with the standards set forth in this
subchapter.
   (B)   The matter shall be set for hearing before the City Council at the
earliest practicable date and notice of the hearing shall be served on the
responsible party and the Building Official not less than ten days prior to
date of the hearing. All interested persons shall have the opportunity to be
heard and may introduce evidence to the City Council for its members’
consideration.
   (C)   After the public hearing, the City Council shall make findings and
orders as it shall deem appropriate.
   (D)   After the public hearing, if a building is found in violation of
standards set out in this subchapter, the City Council may order that the
building be vacated, secured, repaired, removed or demolished by the owner
within a reasonable time. The City Council also may order that the occupants be
relocated within a reasonable time. If the responsible party does not take the
ordered action within the allotted time, the City Council shall make a diligent
effort to discover each mortgagee and penholder having an interest in the
building or in the property on which the building is located. The City
Secretary shall send to each identified mortgagee and lienholder a notice
containing:
      (1)   An identification and address of the building and the property on
which it is located;
      (2)   A description of the violation of this code of ordinances that is
present at the building; and
      (3)   A statement that the municipality will vacate, secure, remove or
demolish the building or relocated the occupants of the building if the ordered
action is not taken within a reasonable time.
   (E)   As an alternative to the procedure prescribed by division (D) above,
the City Council shall make a diligent effort to discover each mortgagee and
lienholder before conducting the public hearing and shall give them a notice of
and an opportunity to comment at the hearing. If the city proceeds under this
division, the order issued by the City Council shall specify a reasonable time
for the building to be vacated, secured, repaired, removed or demolished by the
responsible party or for the occupants to be relocated by the responsible party
and an additional reasonable time for the ordered action to be taken by any of
the mortgagees or lienholders in the event the responsible party fails to
comply with the order within the time provided for action by the responsible
party. Under this division, the city is not required to furnish any notice to a
mortgagee or lienholder other than a copy of the order in the event the
responsible party fails to timely take the ordered action.
   (F)   If the building is not vacated, secured, repaired, removed or
demolished or the occupants are not relocated within the allotted time, the
city may vacate, secure, remove or demolish the building or relocate the
occupants at its own expense.
   (G)   If the city incurs expenses under division (F) above, the city may
assess the expenses on and the city has a lien against unless it is a homestead
as protected by the State Constitution, the property on which the building was
or is located. The lien is extinguished if the property owner or another person
having an interest in the legal title to the property reimburses the city for
the expenses. The lien arises and attaches to the property at the time the
notice of the lien is recorded and indexed in the office of the County Clerk.
The notice must contain the name and address of the owner if that information
can be determined with a reasonable effort, a legal description of the real
property on which the building was located, the amount of expenses incurred by
the city and the balance due.
   (H)   If the notice is given and the opportunity to repair, remove or
demolish the building is afforded to each mortgagee and lienholder as
authorized by divisions (D) or (E) above, the lien is a privileged lien
subordinate only to tax liens and all previously recorded bona fide mortgage
liens attached to the real property to which the city’s lien attaches.
(Ord. 103-95, passed 10-25-94)
§ 150.37 ASSESSMENT OF EXPENSES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   If the City Council has held a hearing pursuant to §
150.36(B) and the time allotted for the repair, removal or demolition of a
building under §
150.36(D) or (E) has expired, then the City Council may, in addition to the
authority granted under Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code § 214.001 and this code’s §
150.36:
      (1)   Order the repair of the building at the city’s expense and assess
the expenses on the land on which the building stands or to which it is
attached or assess a civil penalty against the responsible party for failure to
repair, remove or demolish the building; and
      (2)   The city’s Building Official shall invite at least two or more
building contractors to make estimates pertaining to the needed repair, removal
or demolition of a building. The Building Official shall cause to be made an
assessment of expenses or civil penalty based on the estimates. The Building
Official shall endeavor to minimize the expenses of any building repairs,
removal or demolitions order pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   The city may repair a building under division (A) above only to the
extent necessary to brim the building into compliance with the minimum
standards of the city and only if the building is a residential building with
ten or fewer dwelling units. The repairs may not improve the building to the
extent that the building exceeds minimum standards prescribed by the city.
   (C)   The city shall impose a lien against the land on which the building
stands or stood unless it is a homestead as protected by the State
Constitution, to secure the payment of the repair, removal or demolition
expenses or the civil penalty. Promptly after the imposition of the lien, the
city shall file for record, in recordable form in the office of the County
Clerk, a written notice of the imposition of the lien. The notice shall contain
a legal description of the land.
   (D)   Except as provided by
§ 150.36 above, the city’s lien to secure the payment of a civil penalty or the
costs of repairs, removal or demolition is inferior to any previously recorded
bona fide mortgage lien attached to the real property to which the city’s lien
attaches if the mortgage lien was filed for record in the office of the County
Clerk before the date the civil penalty is assessed or the repair, removal or
demolition is begun by the city. The city’s lien is superior to all other
previously recorded judgement liens.
   (E)   Any civil penalty or other assessment imposed under this section
accrues interest at the rate of 10% a year from the date of the assessment
until paid in full.
   (F)   In any judicial proceeding regarding enforcement of municipalities
under this section, the prevailing party is entitled to recover reasonable
attorney’s fees from the non-prevailing party.
   (G)   A lien acquired under this section by the city for repair expenses may
not be foreclosed if the property on which the repairs were made is occupied as
a residential homestead by a person 65 years of age or older.
(Ord. 103-95, passed 10-25-94)
§ 150.38 POSTING WARNINGS.
   (A)   In the event the City Council makes a determination after the public
hearing that the building is deemed to be an unsafe building, the Building
Official shall cause to be posted at each entrance to the building a notice to
read as follows:
DANGEROUS DO NOT ENTER, UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
Building Official of the City of Sweeny
   (B)   The notice shall remain posted until required repairs, demolition or
removal is completed and the premises have been rendered safe. The notice shall
not be removed without written permission of the Building Official and no
person shall enter the building except for making inspections or required
repairs or to demolish the building.
(Ord. 103-95, passed 10-25-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED HOMES AND HOME PARKS; RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
Section
Manufactured Homes
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Mobile homes prohibited
   
151.03   Unlawful parking, use or location of HUD manufactured homes
   
151.04   Permissible parking or location
   
151.05   Granting of use and occupancy permit
   
151.06   Parking of more than one home per lot
   
151.07   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers
   
151.08   Existing manufactured homes
   
151.09   Licenses for manufactured home parks
   
151.10   Existing manufactured home parks
   
151.11   Inspection
   
151.12   Non-liability
   
151.13   Conflict
Manufactured Home Parks
   
151.25   Definitions
   
151.26   Minimum requirements; space, distance and the like
   
151.27   Rental space subdivision
   
151.28   Final plat
   
151.29   Re-plat
 
   
151.99   Penalty
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HUD CODE MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure constructed on or after June 15,
1976, according to the rules of the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the
traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in
length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is
built on a permanent chassis and designated to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and
includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems. The
term does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, as that term is defined by CFR
3282.8(g).
      MOBILE HOME. A structure that was constructed before June 15, 1976,
transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight
body feet of more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected
on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis
and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating,
air-conditioning and electrical systems.
   (B)   Other terms herein shall have the meanings defined in other ordinances
of the city, except where the context clearly requires otherwise.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
§ 151.02 MOBILE HOMES PROHIBITED.
   No mobile home shall be permitted within the city limits. Any mobile home
located in the city legally, prior to the enactment of this subchapter and used
and occupied as a residential dwelling shall be allowed to remain, but shall
not be replaced with another mobile home under any circumstance.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.03 UNLAWFUL PARKING, USE OR LOCATION OF HUD MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park, locate or
permit the parking or location of any HUD Code manufactured home upon any lot,
street or tract of land within the city, unless the parking or location of said
HUD Code manufactured home meets the requirements of §
151.04.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 103-04, passed 2-17-04)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.04 PERMISSIBLE PARKING OR LOCATION.
   (A)   A HUD Code manufactured home may be placed, located or permitted to
remain within the corporate limits of the City of Sweeny, Texas, if and only
if, it is situated:
      (1)   In a manufactured home park licensed pursuant to the terms of this
Code of Ordinances;
      (2)   In a duly platted and recorded manufactured home subdivision, which
meets all the requirements of this Code of Ordinances;
      (3)   Upon a site that such manufactured home has continuously occupied
prior to and since the effective date hereof, provided such occupation was
lawful on that date, and further provided that the continued occupation thereof
does not pose a significant threat to the health or safety of persons within
the manufactured homes or others. The term SITE as used in this division and
division (A)(4) following means the lot or lots on which the manufactured home
is located;
      (4)   The exemption for existing manufactured homes shall apply to the
manufactured home being occupied prior to and at the time of the adoption of
this section as defined in division (A)(3) above, and shall include any
replacement manufactured homes for such site provided that such replacement is
made within three months of the date the existing manufactured home being
replaced has been removed, damaged or destroyed, if the replacement
manufactured home meeting HUD Code manufactured home standards can meet the
setback, distance, and all other requirements found in this Code and provided
that the replacement manufactured home is not more than five years old.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, place or locate a
manufactured home at any location not authorized by this chapter, or to permit
or allow any manufactured home to remain within the corporate limits of the
city in any location not authorized pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Any manufactured home lawfully placed, parked or located within the
corporate limits of the City of Sweeny, Texas, shall conform to all the
requirements of this chapter, concerning specific use permits, setbacks,
anchoring and skirting, and any other requirement imposed by this chapter.
   (D)   A recreational vehicle may not be placed or parked on any property
except as specifically permitted by this chapter.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation who desires to park or locate a HUD
Code manufactured home as permitted in this chapter, shall make application for
a use and occupancy permit with the Building Official of the City of Sweeny,
Texas. The fee for the use and occupancy permit can be referenced on the city's
master fee schedule. Before granting such permit, the Building Official shall
insure that the following requirements are met:
      (1)   Setbacks. No HUD Code manufactured home may be placed on any lot or
tract within the city in such manner that any part of the manufactured home or
any extension thereto is situated within ten feet of any side lot or tract land
so occupied, and is set back less than 20 feet from the front line. The front
line is deemed to be the line of the tract or lot which adjoins a street or
roadway upon which there is situated either street numbered houses or
businesses or a combination of both. Whenever the lot or tract of land is
situated at an intersection of two different streets or roadways, the
manufactured home or any extension thereof shall not be parked nearer than ten
feet from the inside lot or tract line, and not nearer than 15 feet from the
side lot line adjacent to the street intersecting the street upon which are
situated homes or businesses which have street addresses, and not nearer than
20 feet to the front property line.
      (2)   Anchoring. Prior to connecting any HUD Code manufactured home to
the water, sewer and/or gas service of the city, in accordance with the
Plumbing Code of the city, the manufactured home shall be anchored in
accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions, and anchored, as
well as supported and blocked, in accordance with those standards for
manufactured housing found in the Administrative Rules of the Texas Department
of Licensing and Regulation, 16 Tex. Admin. Code Chapter 69, adopted pursuant
to the authority of Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat., Art. 5221f and administered by the
Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs.
      (3)   Skirting. In addition to the anchoring and blocking requirements
specified above, any HUD Code manufactured home shall be properly skirted prior
to being allowed to connect to the water, sewer and/or gas service of the city.
Skirting shall be required around the complete perimeter of the mobile home in
accordance with the following minimum specifications.
         (a)   The following material, or its equivalent as approved by the
appropriate city officials, is approved to be used for skirting:
            1.   Manufactured skirting with vent panels;
            2.   Corrugated steel sheets;
            3.   Galvanized steel sheets;
            4.   Aluminum sheets;
            5.   Plywood sheets, with a 3/8 inch minimum thickness, rated for
exterior use by the manufacturer;
            6.   Oriented strand board, with a minimum 3/8 inch thickness,
rated for exterior use by the manufacturer; and
            7.   Brick or concrete blocks.
         (b)   Screened vents are required to be used with all skirting to
allow for air circulation under mobile home.
   (F)   Any person, firm, corporation, association or other entity that
violates this section shall be subject to a fine specified in the general
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 103-04, passed 2-17-04; Am. Ord. 104-20,
passed 10-20-20; Am. Ord. 102-21, passed 4-20-21; Am. Ord. 106-22, passed 4-19-
22)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 151.05 GRANTING OF USE AND OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   The Building Official of the city shall make a prompt investigation of any
application for a use and occupancy permit, as specified in this subchapter,
and shall grant the application for permit if the HUD Code manufactured home
meets the requirements specified herein. Failure of the applicant for a permit
to meet all the requirements of this subchapter shall be grounds for refusal to
allow the applicant to connect to the water, sewer and/or gas service of the
city and shall further be grounds for denial of the permit. Any application
shall be deemed approved and granted unless the Building Official denies the
application in writing within 45 days from receipt of the application setting
forth the reason for the denial.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
§ 151.06 PARKING OF MORE THAN ONE HOME PER LOT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, to park, keep or
permit the parking of more than one HUD Code manufactured home upon any lot or
tract of land within the city, regardless of the size of the lot or tract,
unless the manufactured home is located within a duly licensed manufactured
home park.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.07 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   (A)   Definition of recreational vehicle.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A motor vehicle or trailer primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping or travel use, which is
generally no more than eight and one half feet wide and no more than 45 feet
long and is generally less than 320 square feet. The term includes a TRAVEL
TRAILER, CAMPING TRAILER, and MOTOR HOME.
      (2)   Other terms herein shall have the meaning defined in other
ordinances of the city, except where the context clearly requires otherwise.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers outside of duly licensed
recreational vehicle parks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park or
permit the parking of a recreational vehicle and/or a travel trailer on any lot
or tract of land within the city, whenever such recreational vehicle or travel
trailer is being used or occupied as a residence. This prohibition shall not
apply to a recreational vehicle which is located in a duly licensed
recreational vehicle park, as long as the recreational vehicle or travel
trailer complies with the requirements of this section for a use and occupancy
permit.
      (2)   The provisions of this division shall not apply to a recreational
vehicle or travel trailer which is being occupied temporarily by a person or
persons visiting in the city. Any such recreational vehicle or travel trailer
shall not be permitted to connect into the water and sewer system of the city,
during the period of the temporary occupancy. It is provided, however, that a
recreational vehicle or travel trailer which is parked at a church to
temporarily house a visiting minister or related group, or at a school in an
Institutional Zone as defined in § 110.75(B)(3) of the Zoning Code, may be
allowed to connect to the water and sewer system during their visit, for a
maximum period of seven days, provided that a backflow preventer is used in the
connection and approval of the city is obtained prior to hookup.
   (C)   Licenses for recreational vehicle parks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, their
agents servants or employees to operate or provide parking space for a
recreational vehicle upon any lot or tract of land within the city limits,
unless such owner, operator, or their agents, servants or employees have first
made application for and secured a valid license to operate a recreational
vehicle park issued by the city only upon compliance with this section. Any
person, firm or corporation desiring to operate a licensed recreational vehicle
park shall file an application for a license which shall contain the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   A description of the property upon which the recreational
vehicle park is to be constructed;
         (c)   Plans and specifications for the recreational vehicle park which
must conform to the requirements of this section, the Plumbing Code of the
city, and any other applicable ordinance;
         (d)   A drainage study performed by a professional engineer, together
with a drainage plan acceptable to the city;
         (e)   Agreement to reimburse the city for any cost of the city’s
engineer to inspect the work in progress and evaluate the plans and
specifications with respect to the proposed recreational vehicle park;
         (f)   Telephone numbers where the applicant may be contacted;
         (g)   An affirmative statement that the applicant fully understands
that no permit shall be issued until all the construction work has been
completed in accordance with the requirements of this section, the Plumbing
Code and all other ordinances of the city applicable thereto.
         (h)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee as set in the
city's fee schedule, plus any engineering fee payable to the General Fund of
the city.
      (2)   Any license issued hereunder shall be valid for one year, and the
owner or operator of such recreational vehicle park shall be required to apply
annually for a renewal of the license from the city. The Building Official of
the city is hereby designated as the official with the power to administer the
licensing program described herein and to grant and deny all license
applications.
   (D)   Specifications for recreational vehicle park. A recreational vehicle
park must be a minimum of one acre in size and must comply with the terms and
provisions of this section and the provisions of state law. A recreational
vehicle park shall meet the minimum requirements specified as follows:
      (1)   Minimum number of spaces. A recreational vehicle park shall contain
at least four contiguous recreational vehicle spaces.
      (2)   Space size requirements. Each space within a recreational vehicle
park shall be at least 60 feet in length by 30 feet in width.
      (3)   Setbacks. No recreational vehicle may be placed on any space in a
recreational vehicle park in the city in such a manner that any part of the
recreational vehicle or any extension thereto is situated within ten feet of
any side space line whenever the space is bordered by a space on either side of
such space so occupied, and is set back less than 20 feet from the front line.
The front line is deemed to be the line of the space which adjoins a street or
roadway. Whenever space is situated at an intersection of two different
streets, or roadways, the recreational vehicle or any extension thereof shall
not be parked nearer than ten feet from the inside space line and not nearer
than ten feet from the side space line adjacent to the intersecting street and
not nearer than 20 feet to the front property line. A rear setback line shall
be five feet from the rear property line.
      (4)   Recreational vehicle pad. A concrete pad ten feet wide and 60 feet
long shall be located on each lot. The concrete pad shall include six by six by
ten wire mesh for reinforcement.
      (5)   Hook-ups. Each recreational vehicle space shall be hooked to the
city water and sewer system. Water, sewer and electrical hook-ups shall meet
all current codes of the city.
      (6)   Off-street parking. Each recreational vehicle space shall have
adequate off-street parking for all anticipated vehicles.
      (7)   Fencing. A fence approved by the city shall be installed in the
boundary of the recreational vehicle park.
      (8)   Removal in storms. If a hurricane located in the Gulf of Mexico is
predicted to strike the local area as determined by the Emergency Management
Coordinator, all recreational vehicles shall be removed from the recreational
vehicle park to a protected area outside the city limits at least 72 hours
prior to the predicted hurricane strike.
      (9)   Each recreational vehicle located in the recreational vehicle park
shall have direct access to a public or private street. A public street
constructed within the recreational vehicle park shall meet all standards and
requirements established in the subdivision ordinance of the city. Any private
street constructed within the recreational vehicle park shall be a minimum of
28 feet in width, must be approved by the city and must be of either asphalt or
concrete construction.
   (E)   Granting of use and occupancy permit. The Building Official of the
city shall make a prompt investigation of any application for a use and
occupancy permit as specified in this section, and shall grant the application
for permit if the recreational vehicle meets the requirements specified herein.
Failure of the applicant for a permit to meet all the requirements of this
section, shall be grounds for refusal to allow the applicant to connect to the
water, sewer, and/or gas service of the city and shall further be grounds for
denial of the permit. Any such application shall be deemed approved and granted
unless the Building Official denies the application in writing within 45 days
from receipt of the application setting forth the reason for such denial.
   (F)   Inspection. Officials of the city may enter the premises of any
proposed or existing place where any recreational vehicle is located, in order
to inspect for compliance with this section.
   (G)   Nonliability. The city and its officers, agents and employees shall
have no liability of any nature for any actions, omissions, or other matters in
any way concerning the subject matter of this section.
   (H)   Violations and penalties. 
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who commits any of the following
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
not more than $500:
         (a)   Any violation of this section; or
         (b)   Providing false information to a city official concerning
licensing or permitting under this section or compliance with this section.
      (2)   Each day or portion of a day during which any violation occurs or
continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 105, passed 6-15-99; Am. Ord. 105-13,
passed 5-28-13; Am. Ord. 104-18, passed 5-15-18; Am. Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-
21) Penalty, see §
151.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 151.08 EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   This subchapter does not make unlawful any mobile home or manufactured
home already in place and complying with all laws when this subchapter becomes
effective.
   (B)   However, after the effective date of this subchapter, if any
nonconforming mobile home or manufactured home is removed from its location,
the following shall apply:
      (1)   If it is a mobile home, it shall not be allowed to relocate within
the city limits of the city; and
      (2)   If it is a HUD Code manufactured home, all provisions of this
subchapter shall apply.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
§ 151.09 LICENSES FOR MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, their agents
servants or employees to operate or provide parking space for two or more HUD
Code manufactured homes upon any lot or tract of land within the city limits of
the city unless the owner, operator or their agents, servants or employees have
first made application for and secured a valid license to operate a
manufactured home park issued by the city only upon compliance with this
subchapter and §§
151.25 through
151.29 below.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to operate a licensed
manufactured home park shall file an application for a license which shall
contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of the property upon which the manufactured home park
is to be constructed;
      (3)   Plans and specifications for the manufactured home park which must
conform to the requirements of §§
151.25 through
151.29, which describes the requirements for platting manufactured home park
subdivisions, the Plumbing Code of the city and any other applicable ordinance
of the city;
      (4)   Agreement to reimburse the city for the cost of the City Engineer
to inspect the work in progress and evaluate the plans and specifications with
respect to the proposed manufactured home park;
      (5)   Telephone numbers where the applicant may be contacted;
      (6)   An affirmative statement that applicant fully understands that no
permit shall be issued until all the construction work has been completed in
accordance with the requirements of §§
151.25 through
151.29, the Plumbing Code and all other ordinances of the city applicable
thereto, certified by the City Engineer.
      (7)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee as set in the city's
fee schedule, plus the engineering fee payable to the General Fund of the city.
   (C)   Any license issued hereunder shall be valid for one year and the owner
or operator of the manufactured home park shall be required to apply annually
for a renewal of the license from the city. The Building Official of the city
is hereby designated as the official with the power to administer the licensing
program described herein and to grant and deny all license all applications.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21) Penalty, see §
151.99
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 151.10 EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   This subchapter does not make unlawful any manufactured home park or
any mobile home park which is already in place and conforming with all laws at
the date this subchapter becomes effective, provided the manufactured home park
or mobile home park shall make annual application for license to the city, as
required herein. It is further provided that in the situation where the
manufactured home park or mobile home park in existence at the time of the
passage of this subchapter does not conform to the minimum spacing requirements
of this subchapter or the requirements of §§
151.25 through
151.29, should a vacancy occur in a manufactured home space, the space may not
again be occupied unless and until the vacant space conforms to the minimum
spacing requirements of this subchapter and §§
151.25 through
151.29.
   (B)   It is the intent of this subchapter to cause existing manufactured
home parks or mobile home parks to be brought up to the minimum spacing
standards of this subchapter and §§
151.25 through
151.29, as an existing space becomes vacant.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
§ 151.11 INSPECTION.
   Officials of the city may enter the premises of any proposed or existing
place where any manufactured home is located in order to inspect for compliance
with this subchapter.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
§ 151.12 NON-LIABILITY.
   The city and its officers, agents and employees shall have no liability of
any nature for any actions, omissions or other matters in any way concerning
the subject matter of this subchapter.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
§ 151.13 CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances of the city and all other laws shall apply according to
their terms to the subject matter of this subchapter, except as this subchapter
expressly and specifically contradicts the ordinances or laws. The fact that
this subchapter specifically invokes some other laws and ordinances shall not
mean that still other laws and ordinances not specifically invoked do not
apply.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
§ 151.25 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms utilized herein shall have the same meaning or definition as given
the terms in §§
151.01 and
152.01 of this code of ordinances, as amended.
(Ord. 332-85, passed 2-19-85; Am. Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
§ 151.26 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS; SPACE, DISTANCE AND THE LIKE.
   Manufactured home parks or trailer park subdivisions in which the owner of
the land proposes to sell space on the land to a person who will live or rent
to a person who occupies a manufactured home or house trailer upon the space
shall conform to the following:
   (A)   The minimum number of acres to be subdivided shall be one acre.
   (B)   The minimum lot or space site shall be 7,200 square feet.
   (C)   The minimum side lot set back shall be ten feet.
   (D)   The minimum distance between any manufactured home or house trailer
and a house trailer or manufactured home on an adjoining lot or space site
shall be 20 feet.
   (E)   The front lot or space line set back shall be 25 feet.
   (F)   Streets shall be laid out so that each house trailer or mobile home
has access to a street having a width of 60 feet and having a crown which is 22
feet in width, and which is constructed in the manner required by
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (G)   Water mains, sewer mains and gas mains shall be installed at the sole
cost and expense of the subdivider, as well as drainage and streets. Lateral
service shall be provided to each lot space or trailer space in the
subdivision.
   (H)   Water mains, sewer mains, gas mains, drainage and streets, except as
to width of streets, shall conform to the provisions of
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (I)   The plat thereof shall dedicate adequate areas within the subdivision
to provide recreational areas for the persons residing therein or owning space
or lots therein.
   (J)   The subdivider shall submit his or her application for a permit as
required by ordinance of the city, which regulates the parking, operation and
maintenance of manufactured homes, manufactured home lots, manufactured home
parks, trailer parks, trailer camps, manufactured home buses and the like of
the city.
   (K)   The governing body shall be provided a preliminary plat of the
proposed subdivision containing the information above specified and as
specified by
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (L)   Final plat approval shall not be granted until the requirements herein
contained and as contained in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances have been fully complied with and a
certificate of completion has been issued by the City Engineer and the City
Council has finally approved same:
      (1)   Require brick skirting;
      (2)   Require off-street parking, two spaces; and
      (3)   Minimum size dwelling, 800 square feet.
   (M)   Restrictions in recordable form must contain a provision that all
manufactured homes or house trailers shall be skirted at the ground to frame
level so that nothing is visible below the frame level under the manufactured
home or trailer house.
   (N)   Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(Ord. 332-85, passed 2-19-85; Am. Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.27 RENTAL SPACE SUBDIVISION.
   Manufactured home parks or trailer park subdivisions which are designed to
provide rental space for manufactured homes or trailer homes shall conform to
the following provisions.
   (A)   They shall conform to the provisions outlined in the foregoing section
in the event that trailer or manufactured home spaces are ever to be sold for
individual manufactured home or trailer house occupancy and not as an entire
unit.
   (B)   The subdivider shall make his or her application for permit as
required by the ordinance of the city, which regulates the parking, operation
and maintenance of manufactured homes, manufactured home lots, manufactured
home parks, trailer parks, trailer camps, manufactured home buses and the like
of the city.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by a preliminary plat of the
manufactured home park in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   The minimum area which may be so subdivided shall be one acre.
   (E)   The minimum lot or space site shall be 3,600 square feet.
   (F)   The minimum lot or space site set back for each trailer space from the
street or access to the space shall be 20 feet.
   (G)   The minimum side space set back shall be ten feet.
   (H)   The minimum distance between manufactured home or house trailer space
shall be 20 feet.
   (I)   Streets not to be dedicated to the public but shall be at least 36
feet in width, with a minimum crown of 22 feet and shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications for streets contained in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (J)   Streets shall be so located as to provide access to each trailer space
within the subdivision.
   (K)   The subdivision shall contain water, sewer and natural gas mains which
are connected to each trailer or manufactured home space separately in
accordance with the ordinances of the city, which shall be provided at the
subdivider’s sole cost and expense.
   (L)   Each space shall be separately connected to public utility services
and shall be separately metered.
   (M)   At the election of the governing body, the subdivision may be required
to be screened by a fence which is six feet tall and which prevents a view of
the manufactured home or trailer park from the exterior from ground level.
   (N)   Each manufactured home or trailer home or house shall be required to
be skirted from the ground or foundation to the frame so that nothing is
visible from the frame level to the ground or foundation beneath the
manufactured home or trailer house.
   (O)   Adequate off-street parking shall be available to the space occupied.
(Ord. 332-85, passed 2-19-85; Am. Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
§ 151.28 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider, after all the improvements have been completed in the
subdivision, shall present a proposed final plat to the governing body of the
city. The final plat must be submitted before the expiration of one year from
the date of the application for preliminary plat approval. The final plat shall
include the matters set out above with respect to the application for
preliminary plat. The final plat shall not be approved until the City Engineer
has issued his or her certificate of completion. The certificate of completion
is to be obtained in the manner set out in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances. The certificate of completion and the
final plat of the subdivision must be finally approved by the governing body.
   (B)   No final plat shall ever be approved of the subdivision unless all the
improvements have been completed in the subdivision in the manner specified in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances and all fees and charges have been paid
by the subdivider.
   (C)   The governing body may extend the time for application of the final
plat, and may, if the evidence clearly demonstrates that compliance with this
subchapter in all respect will work an undue hardship on the subdivider and
will not prove a substantial detriment to the city, waive compliance with the
provision, except those provisions which affect the health and well being of
the citizens of the city and the proposed residents of the subdivision.
(Ord. 332-85, passed 2-19-85; Am. Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
§ 151.29 RE-PLAT.
   (A)   Any manufactured home park subdivision in which has been established
under the provisions of
§ 151.26 may be re-subdivided as a single-family residence subdivisions
provided all owners of the lots in the subdivision consent in writing to the
re-subdivision and the re-subdivision conforms to the requirements hereof.
   (B)   Any owner desiring to so re-subdivide shall make application to the
governing body of the city in the manner provided by
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances and shall file therewith consent of all
owners to the re-subdivision acknowledged in the manner and form required to
record deeds in the office of the County Clerk.
   (C)   The procedure for subdivision aforesaid shall be followed, including,
but not limited to the application and its contents, approval of streets,
utilities and certificates of approval. No subdivision shall be re-subdivided
without final approval of the governing body of the city.
(Ord. 332-85, passed 2-19-85; Am. Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who commits any of the following shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more
than $500:
   (A)   Any violation of §§
151.01 through
151.13; or
   (B)   Providing false information to a city official concerning licensing or
permitting under §§
151.01 through
151.13 or compliance herewith. Each day or portion of a day during which any
violation occurs or continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 104-99, passed 5-10-99)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Compliance
Preliminary Plat Procedures
   
152.15   Procedure
   
152.16   Submission of prints; required information
   
152.17   Approval of plat; preparation
   
152.18   Deposit; plans and specifications
Final Plat Procedures
   
152.30   Procedure
   
152.31   Submission of prints
   
152.32   Certificate of completion
   
152.33   Information
General Requirements
   
152.45   General standards
   
152.46   Lot sizes
   
152.47   Block length
   
152.48   Monuments
   
152.49   Lot markers
   
152.50   Street right-of-way
   
152.51   Street and street surfaces
   
152.52   Sanitary sewers
   
152.53   Water
   
152.54   Natural gas system
   
152.55   Utility easement
Construction Phase
   
152.65   Staking boundaries, streets and the like
   
152.66   Bids
   
152.67   Execution of contracts; conditions|
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.80   Reserved
   
152.81   Enforcement
   
152.82   Variances
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
   Manufactured Homes and Home Parks; Recreation Vehicle Parks, see
Chapter 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION. The instrument which the City Engineer shall
furnish the City Council in the form of a written certification stating that
all improvements required by the general provisions of this chapter have been
completed in accordance with all city plans and specifications for the
improvements, prior to the final approval and acceptance by the city and shall
further certify that sufficient cash has been deposited or surety bond
furnished with the city to secure the completion of all these improvements so
required which are incomplete. When a surety bond has been furnished the city
in lieu of any or all of the required improvements, it shall be delivered to
the City Attorney for approval. The surety bonds shall have attached thereto a
copy of the contract for the improvements and other information and data
necessary to determine the validity and enforceability of the bonds. When the
bond has been examined and approved, the City Attorney shall furnish the City
Council with a written certification that the surety bond is valid and
enforceable as regards all improvements required by these regulations still
incomplete and for which cash deposit has not been made.
      CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Sweeny, Texas.
      PRELIMINARY PLAT. The plat of a proposed subdivision or re-subdivision
submitted to the City Engineer for presentation to the City Council at least
five days prior to the meeting at which approval of the plat is requested.
      RE-SUBDIVISION. The division of an existing subdivision, together with
any change of lot size therein or the relocation of any street line or lines.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract or parcel of land situated within
the corporate city limits or within the extra territorial jurisdiction of the
city, as the term is defined in the provisions of Tex. Local Gov’t Code,
Chapter 42, into two or more lots or other division of land for the purpose,
whether immediate or in the future of transfer of ownership or building
development expressly excluding development for agriculture purposes, and shall
include, but shall not be limited to re-subdivision of land. The term
SUBDIVISION shall also embrace the division of land which is expressed by metes
and bounds or by subdivision plat.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall be construed as defined in
the Building Code of the city.
   (C)   Should any reasonable doubt exist as to the meaning of any term or of
any terms of this chapter, the doubt shall be resolved by giving the term or
terms the most liberal construction which will favor the city and which will
effectuate the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.02 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall be laid out under the direction of the city.
   (B)   All land not subdivided into lots, blocks and streets within the city
or within the extra territorial jurisdiction of the city shall hereafter be
laid out under the direction of the City Council, and no other subdivision will
be recognized by the city. Prior to the consideration of the preliminary plat
by the City Council, the City Engineer will check the preliminary plat and make
recommendations concerning the same.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, or agent of any owner, to layout,
subdivide or plat any land into lots, blocks and streets within the city or
within the extra territorial jurisdiction of the city or to sell a part of
property therein, which has not been laid off, subdivided and platted according
to these rules and regulations of the City Council.
   (D)   (1)   No officer or employee of the city shall perform or cause to be
performed, any work upon any street or any addition or subdivision of the city
unless all requirements of these regulations have been complied with by the
owner of the addition, subdivision or re-subdivision. No city employee shall
appear on behalf of any subdivider or re-subdivider before the City Council.
      (2)   The City Engineer may appear for and on behalf of the subdivider,
re-subdivider and city.
   (E)   The city hereby defines its policy to be that the city will withhold
improvements of any nature whatsoever, including the maintenance of streets,
and furnishing of sewage service, water service and gas service from all
additions, until the final subdivision plat has been approved by the City
Council. No improvement shall be initiated nor any contracts executed until
this approval has been given to the final plat.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
Penalty, see § 10.99
PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURES
§ 152.15 PROCEDURE.
   Should any person, firm or corporation desire to have the approval of its
plat or replat of any subdivision or re-subdivision within and without the
city, which the subdivision or re-subdivision is within the jurisdiction of the
city, then in such event, the person, firm or corporation shall follow the
following procedure.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.16 SUBMISSION OF PRINTS; REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   Three prints of a preliminary plat shall be submitted to the City
Engineer for presentation to the City Council at least five days prior to the
meeting at which approval is asked and the preliminary plat shall conform to
the following prerequisites.
   (B)   The plat shall be drawn to a scale of 100 feet to the inch or larger
and shall show:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
      (2)   North point, true or magnetic, scale and date;
      (3)   The name and addresses of the subdivides and of the registered
professional civil engineer or licensed land surveyor responsible for the
survey and design;
      (4)   An accurate location of the subdivision in reference to the real
estate records of the county;
      (5)   The boundary line, accurate in scale, of the tract, to be
subdivided;
      (6)   Contours with intervals of foot or less, referred to sea level
datum;
      (7)   The names of adjacent subdivisions or the names of recorded owners
of adjoining parcels of land which is unsubdivided land;
      (8)   The location, widths and names of all existing or platted streets
or other public way within or adjacent to the tract, existing permanent
buildings, railroad rights-of-way, easements and other information and other
important features, such as section lines and school district boundaries;
      (9)   Existing easements for sewers, water mains, culverts or other
underground structures within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto;
      (10)   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public use or
reserved in deeds for the use of all property owners in the proposed
subdivisions, together with the purpose of conditions or limitations of the
reservation, if any;
      (11)   The layout, names and widths of proposed streets and easements;
      (12)   The layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of proposed lots;
      (13)   The draft of any protective covenants whereby the subdivider
proposes to regulate the use of the land in the subdivision; and (The
restrictive covenants, conditions or limitations shall never be less than the
minimum requirement of the city under the terms of this chapter or under the
terms of the Building Code.)
      (14)   All such subdivision shall show on the preliminary plat that the
subdivision complies with
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.17 APPROVAL OF PLAT; PREPARATION.
   The approval of the preliminary plat does not constitute acceptance of the
subdivision, but is merely an authorization to proceed with the preparation of
the final or record plat. The approval of the preliminary plat shall expire
after one year unless the final or record plat has been submitted and recorded.
Extension of time may be given at the discretion of the City Council, provided
the subdivider has shown that he or she is proceeding in good faith to complete
the work necessary before filing the final or record plat.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.18 DEPOSIT; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   After the City Council has approved the preliminary plat and the
developer or subdivides has deposited an amount of money in cash with the city,
which, in the judgment of the City Council, is sufficient to cover the cost to
the city of the engineering fees of the City Engineer for the preparation of
plans and specifications for construction of streets, water mains, sanitary
sewer, gas mains and all drainage within and without the subdivision, the City
Council shall order the preparation of the plans and specifications.
   (B)   The plans and specifications shall conform to the provisions of this
chapter and the city specifications for streets and utilities. No construction
or other work shall be commenced nor shall any contract he or she awarded until
the plans and specifications have been approved by the City Council and the
City Engineer has affixed his or her certificate thereto certifying that the
plans and specifications conform to this chapter and city specifications. Three
prints and one reproducible print of the approved construction plan shall be
furnished to the city.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES
§ 152.30 PROCEDURE.
   Any person, firm, association or corporation having complied with the
foregoing provisions of this chapter who desires to have a final plat approved
shall follow the following procedure.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.31 SUBMISSION OF PRINTS.
   Three prints, one reproducible, of the final or record plat shall be
submitted to the City Council after all changes and alterations have been made.
No final plat shall be considered unless a preliminary plat has been submitted.
No approval will be given to the final plat until the City Engineer prepares
the construction plans for water system, natural gas system, streets and
drainage and are approved by the City Council. The final plat shall be filed
with the City Engineer at least ten days prior to the meeting at which approval
is requested.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.32 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION.
   The final plat so submitted shall be accompanied by a certificate of
completion, as that term is defined herein. In the event that the City Council
determines that the best interest of the city will be served by the city taking
bids on the construction of the streets, drainage, water lines and service, gas
lines and service, sewer lines and service and letting the bid to the lowest
responsible bidder in the manner required by Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Chapter
252, as the same exists or may be amended or codified, then in that event,
after bids have been properly sought, and the cost of the project has been
determined together with engineering fees, and all cost incident thereto, the
city may require the subdivides to post the amount in cash and award the
contract to the lowest responsible bidder, and proceed with the consideration
of the final plat without the certificate of completion.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.33 INFORMATION.
   The final plat or record plat shall show or be accompanied by the following
data:
   (A)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
   (B)   Name and address of the subdivider or name of person to whom notice of
hearing shall be sent;
   (C)   North point, scale and date;
   (D)   Name of registered professional civil engineer or licensed land
surveyor responsible for the plat;
   (E)   Certificate of the registered engineer or licensed surveyor who
surveyed, mapped and monumented the land should be placed on the face of the
plat;
   (F)   A certificate of ownership and dedication of all streets, alleys,
parks and playgrounds to the public use forever shall be executed by all
persons, firms, associations or corporations owning an interest in the property
subdivided, re-subdivided and platted, and shall be acknowledged in the manner
prescribed by the laws of the state for conveyances of real property; (In the
case of lien holders, they shall execute a subordination agreement,
subordinating their liens to all public streets, alleys, parks, school sites
and other public areas shown on the plat of the subdivision or re-subdivision
as being set aside for public use and purpose. The certificate of dedication
shall, in addition to the above requirements contain the following:
      (1)   An accurate description of the tract of land subdivided;
      (2)   A statement and express representation that the parties joining in
a dedication deed or certificate of dedication are the sole owners of the tract
of land;
      (3)   An express dedication to the public for public use forever of the
streets, alleys, rights-of- way, utility easements, parks, school sites and
other public places shown on the attached plat; and
      (4)   A positive reference and identification of the plat of such
subdivision by the name of the subdivision, date of plat and the name of the
engineer.)
   (G)   The boundary lines with accurate distances and bearings, the exact
location and width of all existing or recorded streets, intersecting the
boundary of the tract; (The names of owners of adjacent unplatted land.
Streets, street, alleys and lot lines in adjacent subdivisions shall be shown
by dotted lines. All necessary data to reproduce the plat on the ground must be
shown on the plat.)
   (H)   True bearings and distances to the nearest established street lines or
official monuments, which shall be accurately described on the plat and
municipal, county or section lines accurately tied to the lines of the
subdivision by distances and bearings;
   (I)   An accurate location of the subdivision in reference to the real
estate records of the county;
   (J)   The exact layout including the following:
      (1)   Street names;
      (2)   The length of all arcs, radii, internal angles, points of
curvature, length of bearing of the tangents;
      (3)   All easements for right-of-way provided for public services or
utilities and any limitations of the easements; and
      (4)   All lot numbers and lines with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths and with bearings and angles to street line.
   (K)   Residential set back building lines:
      (1)   The front building line shall not be less than 25 feet from the
front property line and lots facing on cul-de-sac may have building lines not
less than 15 feet from front property line.
      (2)   The building line on the side of corner lots shall not be less than
15 feet from the side street property line, except that where the lots side on
a major street, the building line shall be not less than 25 feet from the side
street property line and where the side of a corner lot is adjacent to the
front of other lots, the building line shall be at the same distance from the
streets as the front building line of the adjacent lots.
      (3)   The rear building line where lots back on a major street shall not
be less than 25 feet from the rear property line.
   (L)   Private restrictive covenants which shall never be less than those
restrictions imposed by the zoning regulations of this chapter;
   (M)   A waiver of claim for damage occasion by the establishment of grades
or alterations of the surface of any portion of the streets;
   (N)   Certificate of approval to be signed by the City Council;
   (O)   Certificate showing that all taxes have been paid on the tract to be
subdivided and that no delinquent taxes exist against the property;
   (P)   Location and description of monuments;
   (Q)   Other data, such as other certificates, affidavits, endorsements or
dedications as may be required by the City Council for the enforcement of these
regulations; and
   (R)   Recording of final plat. After final approval and proper endorsement
have been obtained and all requirements of this chapter have other wise been
complied with, the plat, and all other instruments that may be required to be
recorded, may be recorded with the County Clerk. No changes, erasures,
modifications or revisions shall be made in any plat of a subdivision or to any
required instruments after approval has been given by the City Council in
writing unless the change, modification or revision is first submitted to and
approved the City Council.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.45 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following requirements, in addition to the other requirements of
this chapter, and other ordinances applicable hereto, in general, are the
minimum requirements to be provided for by the subdivider at subdivider’s sole
cost and expense before consideration will be given to any final plat of any
subdivision or re-subdivision within the city limits or within the extra-
territorial jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   The subdivider is obligated to extend all utilities, water, sewer and
natural has throughout the subdivision and connect the utilities to the
existing city utility lines. If the existing city utility lines are more than
100 feet from the nearest boundary of the proposed subdivision, the city will
pay the cost of extending the utility which is more than 100 feet from the
nearest boundary of the proposed subdivision 100 feet.
   (C)   The cost to the city will be determined in one of the following two
methods at the city’s sole option:
      (1)   By using the average cost to the subdivides in extending the
utility lines to the subdivision and within the subdivision, as determined on a
per foot basis; and (This per foot cost will then be multiplied by 100 to
determine the total cost to the city.)
      (2)   By paying for the first 100 feet by the existing city utility
lines. The city shall never be obligated to extend the utility lines beyond the
distance of 100 feet.
   (D)   If the proposed subdivision is situated adjacent to the city and also
contiguous to the boundary of the city, the subdivider shall present a petition
in proper legal form requesting the annexation of the proposed subdivision
before any of the utility service shall be extended to the subdivision and
before the final plat shall be approved.
   (E)   The following provisions of this subchapter are general requirements.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.46 LOT SIZES.
   In general, side lot lines shall run perpendicular to the center line of the
street. The minimum dimension for residential lots shall be 60 feet in width
and 120 feet in depth with a minimum area of 7,200 square feet. Radial lots to
have a minimum width of 60 feet at the building set back line. Corner lots with
a width of less than 75 feet shall have extra width at least five feet wider
than average of interior lots. Double frontage lots will not be permitted.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.47 BLOCK LENGTH.
   (A)   Maximum block length for single-family residential development shall
be 800 feet, measured along the center of the block, when the lots are the
minimum required area of 7,200 square feet. If the lots are larger than 7,200
square feet minimum, the block length shall be reasonable, but shall not exceed
1,600 feet.
   (B)   Maximum block length along a major thoroughfare, railroad, body of
water or similar barrier shall be 1,600 feet, except under special conditions
and upon approval by the City Council.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.48 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Concrete or approved equal monuments, six inches in diameter and
24 inches long, shall be placed on all boundary corners, block corners, curve
points and angle points.
      (2)   A copper pin, or approved equal, one-fourth of an inch in diameter,
embedded at least three inches in the monument, should be set at the exact
intersection point.
   (B)   The monument shall be set at an elevation that they will not be
disturbed during the construction and the top of the monument shall be not less
than 12 inches below the natural ground after the contemplated improvements are
completed.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.49 LOT MARKERS.
   Lot markers shall be inch reinforcing bar, 18 inches long, or approved
equal, it shall be placed at all lot corners flush with the ground, or
countersunk, if necessary, in order to avoid being disturbed.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.50 STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The subdivider shall dedicate a minimum street right-of-way of 60 feet.
Right-of-way of greater width may be required to comply with the master street
plan at the discretion of the City Council.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.51 STREET AND STREET SURFACES.
   (A)   The following standard shall apply to all streets hereafter developed
within any subdivision.
      (1)   The right-of-way dedication for any public street must be not less
than 60 feet in width.
      (2)   The minimum crown width of any street shall be not less than 60
feet in width.
      (3)   The overall width of the crown and shoulders of the street shall
not be less than 36 feet with each shoulder containing equal width.
      (4)   The street rights-of-way shall be graded for their full widths to
provide suitable finish grades for the surface, sidewalks, planting strips with
adequate drainage, drainage and convenient access to the lots.
      (5)   All streets shall be numbered, named and marked by the subdivides
according to city standards.
   (B)   The minimum acceptable surfacing of the streets in a subdivision shall
be:
      (1)   A minimum of eight inches compacted sand stabilized shell
limestone, or lime stabilized crushed aggregate base meeting State Department
of Highways specifications, surfaced with 11-inch HMAC Type D a minimum width
of 22 feet, with shoulders sloped inch per foot to the ditches on each side.
      (2)   The subdivider must grade out the necessary open ditches for
satisfactory drainage to point or points designated by the city.
      (3)   The subdivider must also furnish and install all necessary
reinforced concrete pipe culverts to provide adequate drainage within the
subdivision with a 15-inch I.D. minimum size.
   (C)   In the alternative, the City Council may require the subdivider to
install:
      (1)   A minimum of six inches reinforced concrete pavement (3,000 P.S.I.)
with six-inch integral concrete curbs; or
      (2)   Asphaltic concrete pavement, four inches of coarse graded binder
course, and two inches of fine graded surface course, with a six-inch concrete
curb and an 18-inch gutter; 29 inches overall.
   (D)   Lime treatment of subgrade will be required where the plasticity index
of the subgrade soil is 12 inches or greater. The developer will furnish soil
analysis report to establish the plasticity index, reinforced with #3 rod at 24
inches O.C. reinforcing steel.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.52 SANITARY SEWERS.
   Sanitary sewer facilities shall be provided to adequately service the
subdivision and conform to the city’s sewer system and shall conform to the
following.
   (A)   All sewer pipe shall be vitrified clay sewer pipe, PVC SDR-26 with SDR
35 fittings, or cast iron or other approved pipe as so required by the State
Health Department according to their design criteria.
   (B)   A minimum of eight inches sewer pipe is preferred. A six-inch pipe
shall be acceptable only where so approved by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Developer shall include necessary manholes, cleanouts, lift stations
and service lines to individual lots.
   (D)   All joints shall be sealed with a bituminous compound, rubber ring
gaskets or other approved types of joint seals.
   (E)   In general, sewers shall be located in the utility easements or on
opposite side of streets from water lines.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.53 WATER.
   Water systems shall have a sufficient number of outlets and shall be of
sufficient size to furnish adequate domestic water supply and fire protection
to all lots and to conform to the city’s water system and State Department of
Health design criteria.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.54 NATURAL GAS SYSTEM.
   The following minimum standards apply to natural gas system extensions
within the city:
   (A)   Mains:
      (1)   Minimum diameter: two inches.
      (2)   Depth: three feet of cover below final grade.
      (3)   Material type: polyethylene conforming to the requirements of the
ASTM D-2513 (current edition) specification, Thermoplastic Gas Pressure Pipe,
Tubing and Fittings. Standard dimension ratio: SDR 17, minimum.
      (4)   Pressure test: mains and services, if connected: 90 P.S.I.G. for
one-hour minimum.
      (5)   Trace wire: 12 gauge insulated conductive copper wire securely
bonded together at all joints and pipe intersections and accessible at all
valve boxes and services.
      (6)   Heat fusion joints: all persons making heat fusion joints must be
currently certified to make the joint. A copy of the certificate(s) must be
furnished to the city.
   (B)   Valves:
      (1)   Locations: must conform to city’s sectionalizing valve plan.
      (2)   Material: polyethylene valve stub ends must be compatible with the
pipe specified above including the standard dimension ratios (SDR).
      (3)   Type: Rockwell pulyvalve ball valves.
   (C)   Fitting material: polyethylene conforming to the requirements of ASTM
D-2683 specification Socket-Type Polyethylene Fittings for Outside Diameter
Controlled Polyethylene Pipe or ASTM D-3261, Butt Heat Fusion Polyethylene (PE)
Plastic Fittings for Polyethylene (PE) Plastic Pipe and Tubing.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.55 UTILITY EASEMENT.
   (A)   In general, alleys will not be required, but utility easements for
public utilities shall be dedicated.
   (B)   The easements shall be 7 feet on each side of the rear or side lot
lines. Easements shall connect with established easements and adjoining
property. In the event that the subdivider provides for alleys in the
subdivision, the alley shall also be an easement for public utilities. Should
the subdivision or re-subdivision have alleys, the minimum width of the alley
shall be 20 feet.
   (C)   The City Council may require any alley to be paved for a width of 18
feet utilizing the specifications, except for width applicable to streets.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
CONSTRUCTION PHASE
§ 152.65 STAKING BOUNDARIES, STREETS AND THE LIKE.
   Following the approval of the preliminary plat and the preparation of the
required plans and specification for construction of streets, drainage, water
mains, sanitary sewer mains and gas mains by the City Engineer, the subdivider
shall cause the subdivision to be staked for boundaries and the City Engineer
shall stake out the construction of streets, drainage, water, sewer and gas
mains.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.66 BIDS.
   In the event that the City Council determines that the best interest of the
city will be served by submitting the construction of streets, drainage, water,
sewer and gas mains to public bids, the city shall authorize the submission of
the named projects to public bids in the manner provided by Tex. Rev. Civ.
Stat., Art. 2368a, as amended, hereafter amended or codified. The city shall
reserve the right to reject any and all bids and accept the lowest responsible
bid.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.67 EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   After the bids have been received and opened and the lowest
responsible bid has been determined in the amount of dollars necessary to
construct the projects, the City Council may require the subdivider to deposit
with the city an amount of money in cash to cover the lowest responsible bid as
determined by the City Council, plus all cost of engineering connected
therewith which has not been paid prior to the taking of bids within ten days,
and shall be authorized by the subdivider to execute a contract or contracts
for the improvements and pay therefor from the funds so received as the work
progresses.
   (B)   In the event that the City Council shall determine that the taking of
bids by the city and awarding of the contracts by the city is not in the best
interest of the city with respect to the streets, drainage, water, sewer and
gas mains, or will cause an undue hardship on the subdivides, then in that
event, the subdivider may let a contract for the improvements, provided:
      (1)   The subdivider provides or the subdivider causes its contractor to
provide a payment and performance bond in the amount of the cost of the
improvements which assures the city that the project will be completed in
accordance with the plans and specifications therefor, and all cost of labor
and material for the project will be paid.
      (2)   The subdivider pays in advance prior to the commencement of any
work in the subdivision a sum of money which is sufficient in the opinion of
the City Council to cover engineering fees for on site visits and inspections
of the City Engineer or his or her duly authorized representative as the work
progresses.
      (3)   In the event the property to be subdivided or re-subdivided lies
within the extra territorial jurisdiction of the city of is adjacent and
contiguous to the city, presents a petition from the owners of the property and
residents, if any, seeking annexation to the city. It is the policy of the city
not to provide service for water, sewer, gas and garbage for residential areas
outside the city limits.
      (4)   In the event the property to be subdivided or re-subdivided lies
within the extra territorial jurisdiction of the city, but is not adjacent and
contiguous to the city limits, but is within 1,000 feet of the city limits,
then, in such event, the subdivider shall be obligated to present a petition
from the residents of the subdivision and owner and from the residents of the
area of land situated between the city limits and the subdivision or re-
subdivision seeking annexation in the manner and form required by law.
      (5)   In the event the property to be subdivided or re-subdivided lies
within the extra territorial jurisdiction of the city, but is not adjacent and
contiguous to the city limits and is not within 1,000 feet of the city limits,
the subdivider shall present in writing a request to the City Council that
provisions with respect to water, sewer and gas main be waived by the City
Council, but that easements for the purposes shall be reflected on the plat.
      (6)   Subdivider must agree that, during construction, the City Engineer
or some person acting under his or her direction shall be permitted to make
proper test and make timely and proper inspections of the work in progress.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.80 RESERVED.
§ 152.81 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city shall and will refuse to furnish city services to any person, firm,
association or corporation who shall violate the terms of this chapter and, in
addition, shall have the right to prohibit the violation or correct the
violation by writ of injunction. Also, the city shall refuse to furnish city
services planned for a subdivision until the City Engineer writes the
certificate of completion and the City Council accepts and approves the
subdivision and improvements.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
§ 152.82 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the City Council finds that extraordinary hardship may result from
the strict compliance with these regulations, it may vary the regulations so
that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured. The
variation will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
these regulations.
(Ord. 328, passed 11-20-84; Am. Ord. 108-95, passed 2-21-95)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
153.08   Establishment of development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Interpretation
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.25   General standards
   
153.26   Specific standards
   
153.27   Subdivision proposals
   
153.28   Areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones)
   
153.29   Floodways
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.40   Floodplain Administrator; duties
   
153.41   Permit procedures
   
153.42   Variance procedures
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Levees and improvements; construction, see §
150.01
   Subdivisions, see
Chapter 152
   Wellhead Protection, see
Chapter 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Texas has in the Flood Control Insurance
Act, Tex. Water Code, § 16.315, delegated the responsibility of local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the City Council of Sweeny, Texas does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in a manner as to minimize future flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
§ 153.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve the uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar land form which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar land form below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH or VO Zone on a
community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. Is the land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The
area may be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After
detailed rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of the
FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/
A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30 or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year. Also called the BASE FLOOD.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes  such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a special flood hazards and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior or;
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four-hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE.  For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above
ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements see § 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10) (d)(3),
(e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to any areas of special flood hazard with the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and/or Flood
Boundary-Floodway Maps (FIRM and/or FBFM) as part of the National Flood
Insurance Program (NFIP) dated December 30, 2020, and any revisions thereto are
hereby adopted by reference and declared it to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07; Am. Ord. 107-22, passed 4-19-
22)
§ 153.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another chapter, easement, covenant or
deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
§ 153.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the City Council; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
§ 153.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within the areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages.
   (C)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the community
or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decisions lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.25 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, whether the property is located in
whole or partly in a flood prone area, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed or
modified and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements within a designated
special flood hazard area as per the FEMA FIRM map, shall provide an elevation
certificate showing base floor elevations. Construction will require a final
elevation certificate as per §
153.26.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage. All new construction or
substantial improvements of any structure shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated at least 24 inches, two feet, above the base flood
elevation. Failure to elevate at least 24 inches, two feet, above the highest
adjacent grade in a designated flood zone, may result in higher insurance
rates.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07; Am. Ord. 107-22, passed 4-19-
22)
§ 153.26 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
153.07,
153.40(B)(2) or
153.27(C), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated 24 inches above the base flood elevation as per FEMA and Brazoria
County Floodplain Management. A registered professional engineer, architect or
land surveyor shall submit an elevation certification to the Floodplain
Administrator that the standard of this section, as proposed in §
153.41(A)(2)(a), is satisfied prior to construction showing base floor
elevations with proposed final elevations. A final elevation certificate,
verifying final elevation is 24 inches above the base floor elevation, is
required to be submitted upon completion of the structure. Construction in
special flood hazard areas must present a drainage study completed by a
registered professional engineer or surveyor showing no adverse impact of
impervious runoff in surrounding areas and properties. Submittal of drainage
mitigation will be required along with the drainage study to combat adverse
effects.
   (B)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial,
industrial or other non-residential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated 24 inches above the base flood level as per
FEMA and Brazoria County Floodplain Administration or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level
the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural
design, specifications and plans for the construction, and shall certify that
the design and methods of constriction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice, as outlined herein. All new commercial construction and
substantial improvements to include industrial or other non-residential
structures and/or civil work regardless of special flood zone, must submit a
drainage study to include runoff calculations showing no adverse effects of
impervious runoff and drainage mitigation to be reviewed by the City Engineer.
A record of the certification which includes the specific elevation, in
relation to mean sea level, to which the structures are floodproofed shall be
maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer, architect or land surveyor
shall submit an elevation certification to the Floodplain Administrator that
the standard of this section, as proposed in §
153.41(A)(2)(a), is satisfied prior to construction showing base floor
elevations with proposed final elevations. A final elevation certificate,
verifying final elevation is 24 inches above the base floor elevation, is
required to be submitted upon completion of the structure.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood
waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community's FHBM or FIRM, shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated 24 inches above base floor elevation, as per FEMA and Brazoria
County Floodplain Administration, and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting
wind forces.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM on-sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated 24 inches above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed, or substantially
improved, on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with
Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of this division (D), be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home 24 inches above the
base flood elevation;
or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade, and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements of §
153.41(A)(1), and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured
homes in division (D) above. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if
it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached
additions.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07; Am. Ord. 107-22, passed 4-19-
22)
§ 153.27 SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
153.02 through
153.04.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Floodplain
Development Permit requirements of §§
153.08,
153.41 and this subchapter.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
153.07 and
153.40(B)(2).
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
§ 153.28 AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES).
   (A)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
153.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable
and where velocity flow may be evident.
   (B)   The flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow and, therefore,
the following provisions apply:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated 24 inches above
the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM; (a minimum of at least
two feet if no depth number is specified); or
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated 24 inches
above the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high
as the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM; (a minimum of
least two feet if no depth number is specified); or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
designed so that below the base specified flood depth in an AO Zone, or below
the Base Flood Elevation in an AH Zone, level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in §
153.41, are satisfied.
   (D)   Required within Zones AH or AO are adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood water around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07; Am. Ord. 107-22; passed 4-19-
22)
§ 153.29 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard, established in
§
153.07, are areas designated as floodways.
   (B)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion
potential, the following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (B)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, § 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations, a community may permit
encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an
increase in base flood elevations, provided that the community first completes
all of the provisions required by § 65.12.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.40 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works is hereby appointed the Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R. (Emergency Management and Assistance-
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain
management.
   (B)   (1)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
shall include, but not be limited to the following:
         (a)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records
pertaining to the provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that
the proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured
homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding;
         (c)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
         (d)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is
required;
         (e)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
         (f)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the
State Coordinating Agency which is the Texas Water Development Board (TWDB),
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
         (g)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      (2)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
153.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
153.25 through
153.29.
      (3)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
      (4)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, § 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE and AH on the community’s FIRM which increases
the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided
that the community first completes all of the provisions required by § 65.12.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
§ 153.41 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Application for a Floodplain Development Permit shall be
presented to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and
may include, but not be limited to plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing
the location, dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations,
existing and proposed structures including the placement of manufactured homes
and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
      (2)   Additionally, the following information is required:
         (a)   Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all new and substantially improved structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure shall be floodproofed;
         (c)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the non-residential floodproofed structure shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of §
153.26(B);
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (e)   Maintain a record of all information in accordance with §
153.40(B).
   (B)   Approval or denial of a Floodplain Development Permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
§ 153.42 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   City Council, as established by the community, shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   City Council shall hear and render judgement on an appeal only when it
is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made
by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the City Council
may appeal the decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of an acre or less in size contiguous to
and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
153.41(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the City Council may attach conditions to the granting of variances as
it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this chapter (§
153.03).
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon showing a good and sufficient
cause; a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and a determination that the granting of
a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on
or victimization of the public or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to when a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (J) above are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07; Am. Ord. 107-22, passed 4-19-
22)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this court order
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this court
order by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this court order or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $500 for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City
Council from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 102-87, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 102-89, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 104-89,
passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 104-08, passed 12-18-07)
CHAPTER 154: WELLHEAD PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Prohibited activities
   
154.04   Right-of-way
   
154.05   Required removal
   
154.06   Superceding regulation or statute
   
154.07   Penalty
Well Regulations; Permits
   
154.25   Powers and duties of City Council
   
154.26   Compliance required
   
154.27   Scope
   
154.28   Permit; work on wells
   
154.29   Application
   
154.30   Inspection before issuance
   
154.31   Execution
   
154.32   Additional permits
   
154.33   Fees; disposition
   
154.34   Casing of wells required
   
154.35   Wells contaminating other water sources
   
154.36   Defective wells
   
154.37   Abandoned wells
   
154.38   Wells outside city; abating nuisance; drilling
   
154.39   Wells imposing immediate threat; abating nuisance
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.50   Wellhead Protection Administrator; designation; duties
   
154.51   Noncompliance; violations
   
154.52   Variance procedure
Cross-reference:
   Drought Contingency Plan, see
Chapter 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for the uses and the
construction of facilities in or on land within 150 feet of the wells in order
to promote sanitary conditions in and around such wells, to secure all such
land from pollution hazards, and to enable the city to comply with all
applicable state and local regulations.
   (B)   The objective of this subchapter is to prevent certain uses and the
construction of facilities in or on land surrounding the wells, which might
create a danger of pollution to the water produced from such wells.
(Ord. 105-12, passed 5-22-12)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Sweeny, Texas.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Sweeny, Texas.
   ORDINANCE. The ordinance establishing rules and regulations regarding
sanitary and pollution control of the area in proximity to the city's public
water supply wells.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or its legal representatives, agents,
successors, or assigns.
   WELLS. The water wells owned and operated by the city, which are more
specifically identified and described in Exhibit "A" attached to Ord. 105-12,
passed 5-22-12, and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 105-12, passed 5-22-12)
§ 154.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   The following activities are prohibited within the designated areas of land
surrounding the wells:
   (A)   Construction and/or operation of any underground petroleum and/or
chemical storage tank, liquid transmission pipeline, stock pen, feedlot, dump
grounds, privy, cesspool, septic tank, sewage treatment plant, sewage wet well,
sewage pumping station, drainage ditch which contains industrial waste
discharge or the wastes from sewage treatment systems, solid waste disposal
site, land on which sewage plant or septic tank sludge is applied, land
irrigated by sewage plant effluent, septic tank perforated drain field,
absorption bed, evapotranspiration bed, area irrigated by low dosage, low angle
spray on-site sewage facility, military facility, industrial facility, wood
treatment facility, liquid petroleum and petrochemical production, storage,
and/or transmission facility, Class 1, 2, 3, and/or 4 injection well, pesticide
storage and/or mixing facility, abandoned well, inoperative well, improperly
constructed water well of any depth, and all other construction or operations
that could create an unsanitary condition is prohibited within, upon, or across
all areas within a 150 foot radius of the wells. For the purposes of this
subchapter, improperly constructed water wells are those wells that do not meet
the surface and subsurface standards for a public water supply well.
   (B)   Construction and/or operation of tile or concrete sanitary sewers,
sewer appurtenances, septic tanks, storm sewers, and cemeteries is specifically
prohibited within, upon, or across any area of land within a 50 foot radius of
the wells.
   (C)   Construction of homes or buildings upon any area of land within a 150
foot radius of the wells is permitted, provided the restrictions described in
division (A) and (B) above are met.
   (D)   Normal farming and ranching operations are not prohibited by this
subchapter; provided, however, livestock shall not be allowed within a 50 foot
radius of the wells.
(Ord. 105-12, passed 5-22-12)
§ 154.04 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   City employees, or authorized representatives of the city, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to immediately enter upon
any premises located within a 150 foot radius of any well to conduct any
inspection or observation necessary to enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 105-12, passed 5-22-12)
§ 154.05 REQUIRED REMOVAL.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this subchapter shall be
required to remove the prohibited construction or contamination source within
30 days after notification that they are in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 105-12, passed 5-22-12)
§ 154.06 SUPERCEDING REGULATION OR STATUTE.
   Whenever any applicable statute, regulation or permit of any state, federal,
or other agency, having jurisdiction over the subject matter of this
subchapter, is in conflict herewith, the stricter requirement shall apply,
unless mandated otherwise.
(Ord. 105-12, passed 5-22-12)
§ 154.07 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this subchapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in an
amount not to exceed $500.00. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 105-12, passed 5-22-12)
WELL REGULATIONS; PERMITS
§ 154.25 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Council or its designated agent or representative shall have
the following powers:
      (1)   To make or have made examinations of all wells within the city and
all wells outside the city limits which by law is under the jurisdiction of the
city, privately owned or otherwise;
      (2)   To make or have made at any time the necessary analyses for tests
of water therefrom;
      (3)   To go upon the land and property of the owner of a well for that
purpose;
      (4)   To require the owner to furnish all information requested
concerning a well, including, in the case of new wells, complete logs of the
well showing depth to the aquifer through all geologic formations encountered;
and
      (5)   To supervise the construction, repair, abandonment and plugging of
wells with and the operation of the wells.
   (B)   The Council or its agent shall keep a register of all wells within the
area defined in division (A)(1) above, which shall show the name of the owner,
the location and the date of construction of each well, its depth and diameter,
the purpose for which the well was constructed, and if abandoned, the date of
abandonment. All acts authorized to be done by the City Council may be
performed by such persons as may be authorized by the Council to act for it.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
§ 154.26 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be deemed a violation of this chapter for any person to fail or
refuse to comply with any order of the City Council made in conformity with and
under the authority of this chapter.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
§ 154.27 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all wells or other openings
greater than ten feet in depth. Furthermore, the owner of any proposed well
shall be required to apply and receive from the city a permit to construct a
well or opening, the application for which shall supply all the information
required under §
154.29 and for the permit the city shall charge and receive the fee hereinafter
provided for.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
§ 154.28 PERMIT; WORK ON WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drill or otherwise construct, repair,
correct, abandon or plug a well, or to engage upon the work, within the limits
of the area defined in §
154.25, or to employ anyone else to engage in the work, without first applying
for and securing a permit from the Councilor a duly authorized agent thereof.
The permit may be granted with the approval of the Council’s authorized agent
to any person who files with the city the application hereinafter provided for
and pays the fee hereinafter required, and complies with all other provisions
of this chapter applicable to him or her.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.29 APPLICATION.
   Every application for a permit for the drilling, construction, repair and
correction, abandonment of plugging of a well, shall state the name and address
of the owner thereof, the purpose for which the permit is desired, which shall
be done or more of the acts above-mentioned; the definite location of the well
or proposed well; its approximate depth; and if for a permit for the drilling
or construction or repair and correction of a water well, the estimated amount
of water to be, or which is pumped daily, monthly or annually, and the use or
uses for which the water will be or is required; if for a permit for the
drilling or construction or for the repair and correction of a well, the
proposed method of drilling or construction, or the proposed method of repair
and correction, and the kind of equipment to be used, and in all cases, the
name of the contractor(s), and the license number issued by the State Water
Well Drillers Board, if done through a contractor, whom the owner desires to
drill or construct, repair and correct or do the work pursuant to an
abandonment of a well in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
§ 154.30 INSPECTION BEFORE ISSUANCE.
   It shall be the duty of the City Council or its designated agent or
representative to inspect the property where any well is to be drilled, sunk,
dug or bored and to refuse the issuance of a permit to drill, sink, dig or bore
a well in a place which does not meet with its approval as to drainage and
other sanitary conditions.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
§ 154.31 EXECUTION.
   All permits shall be executed in triplicate, one copy to be delivered to the
applicant and two copies to be retained in the office of the city.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
§ 154.32 ADDITIONAL PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any applicant who obtains a permit to construct a
well of a certain depth, to extend the well to a depth exceeding the depth
provided for in the permit without first obtaining and additional permit
therefor.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.33 FEES; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The fees to be paid to the city for the permits required by this
chapter shall be as set by the city's fee schedule.
   (B)   All fees and other money collected by the city by virtue of this
chapter shall be expended by the city to cover the expense of making
examinations of wells within the city, to make or have made the necessary
analyses and test of water therefrom, to supervise the construction, repair,
abandonment and plugging of wells and their operation and other expenses as may
be necessary to enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90; Am. Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 154.34 CASING OF WELLS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every well constructed, whether drilled, dug or excavated, which
encounters salt water or water containing mineral or other substance injurious
to health or vegetation, shall be securely plugged and sealed or cased in a
manner that the waters be confined to the stratum or strata in which found, and
all wells shall be so constructed and cased in a manner that the waters be
confined to the stratum or strata in which found, and all wells shall be so
constructed and cased so that no water from one stratum can be reason of the
construction of the well come in contact with waters from another stratum.
      (2)   The casing shall be set in the top of the stratum from which water
is to be taken and shall be cemented in place by suitable method to be approved
by the City Council or its authorized agent to the end that cement be forced up
around the outside of the casing from the bottom of the casing to the surface
of the ground so that all water found in the strata, except that from which
water is to be used, shall be scientifically developed to accomplish the
purpose mentioned, a better method may be prescribed by the city in lieu of
cementing. the casing used shall be of weight per foot, not less than the
following.
Size of Casing Minimum Weight Per Foot
Size of Casing Minimum Weight Per Foot
Four-inch              Ten pounds
Five-inch              14 pounds
Six-inch               18 pounds
Eight-inch             28 pounds
Ten-inch               40 pounds
12-inch                49 pounds
15-inch                60 pounds
18-inch                80 pounds
20-inch                89 pounds
 
   (B)   The casing shall be mechanically continuous from the point of setting
the bottom of the well to a point not less than 12 inches above ground level
and shall be so installed as to make impossible any leakage as against any
pressures which may be encountered.
   (C)   If casing is of two or more diameter sizes, the different sizes shall
be connected with threaded nipples or be sealed with rubber, cement or lead or
by some other manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
§ 154.35 WELLS CONTAMINATING OTHER WATER SOURCES.
   Any well or other opening located inside the area defined in §
154.02 which penetrates the underground water supply and which pollutes or
contaminates any other wells or the city’s water supply, is declared a
nuisance, and on notice to the owner of the well, or to the operator therefor,
or to his or her agent in charge of the well or of the property on which it is
situated, issued by the City Council or its agent the nuisance shall be abated
by the owner within ten days from the date of the notice by filling an plugging
the well or opening in the manner provided for in this chapter for abandoned
wells; and if he or she shall fail to abate the nuisance within the time, or if
owner or his or her agent, the Council or its agent shall have the right to go
on the land or property upon which the well is situated and abate the nuisance
in the manner provided and the owner thereof shall be liable to the city for
the cost of the work and shall pay the cost upon demand.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.36 DEFECTIVE WELLS.
   Every well whether dug or drilled, which for any reason does not completely
prevent the mixing of water or other liquid from above and below the source of
the city’s water supply, or which for any reason would tend to pollute or
contaminate any other well or the water in the source of the city’s water
supply, shall be considered a defective well and the City Council or its agent
on its own initiative or upon information or complaint from any source may make
an examination of any well suspected of being defective and if an examination
of any well suspected of being defective and if the examination indicates in
the opinion of the Council or its agent that the well is a probable source of
contamination of the city water supply or any other well, or that the water
from the well is unsafe for human consumption, shall issue written instructions
to the owner or his or her agent in charge of the well or the property with the
provisions of this chapter, and prescribe a time which in its judgment, under
all the circumstances, is reasonable within which the instructions shall be
complied with. It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of the defective
well to fail to comply with such instructions within the time prescribed by the
City Council or its authorized agent.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
§ 154.37 ABANDONED WELLS.
   (A)   (1)   An abandoned well is:
         (a)   A defective well which, in the judgment of the City Council or
its agent, cannot be corrected to comply with the requirements of this chapter;
or
         (b)   Any well which has been continuously out of use for a period of
six months or longer.
      (2)   Whenever any wells have not been in active use for more than two
years, the owner or operator of the well shall report the fact to the city.
Every abandoned well shall be filled and plugged with the materials and in a
manner approved by the State Water Well Drillers Board that will, in their and
the city’s judgment, prevent the pollution and contamination of the city’s
water supply or the contamination of any other well within the limits of the
city, and the filling and plugging shall be done under the supervision of the
city and at the expense of the owner of the well.
   (B)   Whenever the city shall receive notice from any source of the
existence of an abandoned well which has not been plugged and filled in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and/or the State Water Well
Drillers Board, it shall notify the owner or agent in charge of the well or of
the property upon which it is situated that the well is abandoned and shall
instruct him or her to fill and plug the well in accordance with this chapter;
and the owner or operator of the well shall comply with the order within 60
days after its date. Should he or she fail to so comply within the period or
if, after using reasonable diligence, should the city fail to locate the owner
or the agent in charge of the well or of the property upon which the well is
situated, the Council or its agent may go on the land or property upon which
the well is situated and fill and plug the well in the manner required by this
chapter.
   (C)   Whenever it becomes necessary for the city to fill and plug any
abandoned well the owner thereof shall be liable to the city for the cost of
doing the work and shall pay the cost upon demand.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
§ 154.38 WELLS OUTSIDE CITY; ABATING NUISANCE; DRILLING.
   The owner or lessee of property on which any well heretofore drilled or that
may be hereafter drilled outside the city which is found to be contaminating or
polluting influence to the underground water- bearing strata from which the
municipal water supply of the city is taken or drawn or may hereafter be taken
or drawn, as well as the owner or lessee of all wells drilled inside the area
defined in §
154.02 shall be subject to all the provisions hereof and all other provisions
of this chapter relating to the protection of the water supply of the city, and
any contaminating well may be abated, as provided therein. Any person desiring
to drill a well outside of the city at any location within the radius of mile
outside the city, prior to drilling the well shall fully comply with all
provisions of this chapter relating to the protection of the water supply of
the city, and upon failure to do so shall be punished as provided herein.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.39 WELLS IMPOSING IMMEDIATE THREAT; ABATING NUISANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Any well or other opening located inside the area defined in §
154.02 which, in the sole opinion of the City Council or its agents, presents
an immediate threat and menace to the health, morals, safety or general welfare
of the public is declared to be a nuisance.
      (2)   The City Council or its agents shall have the right to go on
property upon which the wells is situated and abate the nuisance in a temporary
mariner.
   (B)   The well shall thereafter be filled and plugged by the owner after the
giving of required notice and in a manner set out in §
154.37.
   (C)   The owner thereof shall be liable to the city for the cost of doing
the temporary work under this section and shall pay the cost upon demand.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.50 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA ADMINISTRATOR; DESIGNATION; DUTIES.
   (A)   The is hereby appointed the Wellhead Protection Area Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of Tex. Water Code § 26.177.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Wellhead Protection Area
Administrator shall include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review water well permit applications and other permit applications
where applicable to determine whether the proposed activity in the WHPA will
pose a threat to the integrity of the public water supply;
      (3)   Review, approve or deny (or recommend denial where authority for
denial is not granted) all applications for permits required by the adoption of
this chapter;
      (4)   Review permits for proposed development within the WHPA(s) to
assure that all necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state,
or local government agencies from which prior approval is required;
      (5)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the WHPA(s) (for example, where there appears to be a conflict
between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make the necessary
interpretation;
      (6)   When WHPA delineation has not been provided by the state (for
example, upon completion of a new PWS well), delineate a one-quarter mile
radius around the well and administer it in accordance with this chapter until
the time as site specific determination can be made;
      (7)   Coordinate the city’s emergency response activities in the event a
potential contamination event occurs; and
      (8)   Maintain an active list of potential sources of contamination which
shows the physical location, street address, contact and telephone number. This
list shall be kept open for public inspection.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
§ 154.51 NONCOMPLIANCE; VIOLATIONS.
   Persons and/or entities found to be in violation of this chapter shall be
notified by the City Council or its agent in writing.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
§ 154.52 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Wellhead Protection Area Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal the decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   No variance may be requested nor granted as a means to circumvent the
intentions of this chapter or as a remedy for a violation of this chapter (such
as a variance cannot be issued after the fact).
   (E)   The Wellhead Protection Area Administrator shall maintain a record of
all actions involving an appeal.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the intent of this chapter, the Appeal Board may
attach the conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purpose and objectives of this chapter.
   (G)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary considering the potential threat of
contamination of the PWS well and aquifer, to afford relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant a variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in additional threats to the public safety, extraordinary public expense,
create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict
with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the activity receiving this variance will decrease the
travel time for potential contaminants to reach the PWS well and that any and
all liability of a contamination event as a result of this activity receiving
the variance is on the variance holder.
      (4)   Furthermore, the city, its officers and services, as well as its
employees are released from any responsibility and liability for any damages
and/or contamination events due to activity receiving the variance.
   (H)   Variances may be issued by a community for new development necessary
for the conduct of the functionally dependent use, provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in this section are met; and
      (2)   The development is protected by methods that minimize the risk of a
contamination event and creates no additional threats to public safety.
(Ord. 103-91, passed 12-18-90)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Adoption of Zoning Code
§ 155.01 ADOPTION OF ZONING CODE.
   The City of Sweeny, Texas hereby adopts by reference and incorporates herein
as if set out in full a Zoning Code, which provides definitions, establishes a
Board of Adjustment, establishes zones and zoning regulations within the city,
and provides for administration of the Zoning Code as well as penalties for
violations of the Zoning Code.
(Ord. 104-07, passed 5-15-07; Am. Ord. 109-07, passed 9-18-07; Am. Ord. 103-08,
passed 1-15-08)
CHAPTER 156: SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Purpose
   
156.002   General
   
156.003   Definitions
General Regulations
   
156.015   Exemptions for certain types of signs
   
156.016   General regulations
   
156.017   Signs allowed without permit
   
156.018   Signs requiring a permit
   
156.019   Prohibited sign types
Permits and Maintenance
   
156.030   Sign permits
   
156.031   Sign maintenance and nuisances
Preexisting Exceptions, Variances, and Construction
   
156.045   Preexisting non-conforming signs
   
156.046   Variances
   
156.047   Construction
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide uniform sign standards and
regulations in order to insure public safety and to promote a positive city
image reflecting order, harmony and pride, and thereby strengthening the
economic stability of Sweeny business, cultural, historical and residential
areas.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16)
§ 156.002 GENERAL.
   No person may construct, reconstruct, place, install, repair, maintain,
relocate, alter or use a sign after the effective date of this article unless
such installation, construction, reconstruction, placement, repairs,
maintenance, relocation, alteration or use meets all the provisions of this and
all other applicable code provisions adopted by the City of Sweeny, Texas.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16)
§ 156.003 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases used in this article shall have the meanings set forth in
this section. Words and phrases which are not defined in this article but are
defined elsewhere in the Code of Ordinances of the City of Sweeny shall be
given the meanings set forth in those code provisions. Other words and phrases
shall be given their common, ordinary meaning unless the context clearly
required otherwise. Headings and captions are for reference purposes only, and
shall not be used in the interpretation of this chapter.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign for which any of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   Does not contain a message on the first anniversary of the date the
business, person, or activity that the sign or sign structure identifies or
advertises ceases to operate on the premises on which the sign or sign
structure is located.
      (2)   If the premises containing the sign or sign structure is leased,
then if the sign does not contain a message on the second anniversary after the
date the most recent tenant ceases to operate on the premises.
      (3)   The city may agree with the owner of the sign or sign structure to
remove only a portion of the sign or sign structure.
   AREA.
      (1)   The entire sign surface within a single contiguous perimeter,
excluding support structures. A sign structure with two faces back-to-back,
oriented in opposite directions and separated by not more than three feet, with
the same copy on both sides, shall be counted as a single sign.
      (2)   In cases where a sign is composed only of letters, figures, or
other characters the dimensions used to compute the area are the smallest
simple imaginary figure (circle, triangle, rectangle, or other) which fully
contains the sign content.
   BANNER. Fabric or other suitable material which is attached or suspended at
two ends or continuously across the long edge. Attachment or suspension may be
from structures and/or poles. A street banner is a banner suspended above a
right of way.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or part of a sign on which content can be
changed or rearranged without altering the face of surface of the sign,
including but not limited to a theater marquee or a gasoline price sign.
   COMMERCIAL COMPLEX. Any property such as a shopping center, office park or
industrial park, which consists of two or more establishments on a single
platted lot, or which is designed, developed and managed as a unit.
   COMMERCIAL SERVICE SIGN. A sign which solicits support for or participation
in a non-profit, non-political, community, public or social event or activity.
   DILAPIDATED SIGN. Any sign where:
      (1)   The structural support or frame members are visibly bent, broken,
dented, torn or excessively rusted; or
      (2)   The sign face is visibly torn, cracked or, in the case of wood or
similar products, splinted in such a way as to constitute a potential harmful
condition; or
      (3)   The sign or its elements are twisted or leaning or at angels other
than those at which it was originally erected (such as may result from being
blown or the failure of a structural support).
   FLAG. A fabric sheet, which is attached at one end to a pole, cable or rope.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign not attached to or part of any building.
Included are monument signs and self supported signs.
   HEIGHT. The distance from ground level to the top of the sign structure. The
ground level is the lower of:
      (1)   The existing grade prior to construction of the sign; or
      (2)   The newly established grade after construction, unless the curb
elevation at the street in front of the sign is higher than the established
ground level, in which case the height shall be measured from curb level.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign illuminated in any manner by an artificial light
source of any kind, either detached from the sign or a part thereof. Signs that
are only incidentally and indirectly illuminated as a result of a lighting plan
primarily designed as security lighting or landscape lighting are not
illuminated signs.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A sign which is mounted on a base at least as wide as the
sign and is of limited height. The opening between the base and the sign must
be no greater than two inches.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign displaying advertising copy that pertains to a
business, person, organization, activity, event, place, service, or product not
principally located or primarily manufactured or sold on the premises on which
the sign is located.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign identifying or advertising a business, person, or
activity, and installed and maintained on the same premises as the business,
person or activity.
   PREMISES. Means a lot or tract within the city, and contiguous lands in the
same ownership, which is not divided by any public highway, street or alley, or
right-of-way.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign the outside edge of which extends from the face of
a wall to which it is attached.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any property within the city limits which is zoned for
residential use. Any unzoned property within the city limits or any property
within the city's extra-territorial jurisdiction which is vacant, in any form
of agricultural use, on which a residence is the principal use, and any portion
within 200 feet of any such residence.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The owner of the property upon which the sign is located,
the lessor of the property, and/or the owner of the sign.
   SELF-SUPPORTED SIGN. See FREE STANDING SIGN.
   SIGN. Any medium for visual communication or its structure used or intended
to attract the attention of the public.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure which is designed specifically for the purpose
of supporting a sign, has supported or is capable of supporting a sign. This
definition shall include any decorative covers, braces, wires, supports, or
components attached to or placed around the sign structure. Where any goods or
services for sale or other advertisement is displayed on the structure, then
said structure shall be counted as part of the sign area.
   SINGLE COMMERCIAL BUILDING. A structure containing a single commercial
establishment, office business, school, church, non-profit organization,
charity or government agency.
   SWEENY or CITY. The City of Sweeny, Brazoria County, Texas, an incorporated
municipality.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 156.015 EXEMPTIONS FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF SIGNS.
   The following are exempt from regulation under this chapter:
   (A)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door and not
oriented so as to be read from outside the building.
   (B)   Commemorative plaques and historical markers mounted on the face of a
building or erected on a site as a free-standing monument sign, when placed or
approved by a governmental entity, historical society, religious organization
or other nonprofit entity to commemorate a person, event or other matter of
historical interest.
   (C)   Any sign installed or required to be installed by any governmental
entity or public utility to give information, directions or warnings to the
general public, regardless of the sign's location on public or private
property.
   (D)   Temporary signs with the intended use of identifying seasonal,
occasional or special community, educational, charitable and civic events,
facilities, activities or social events, and of identifying newly opened
businesses.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16)
§ 156.016 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Excluding only those signs exempted by the preceding section, no sign or
part of a sign shall:
   (A)   Be placed on or attached to any utility pole or pedestal, except by a
utility company owning the pole or pedestal or operating facilities mounted on
the pole or pedestal.
   (B)   Be placed upon real property without the consent of the property
owner.
   (C)   Be located in, on, or over any right-of-way, except for directional or
informational signs erected by government agencies. Any such sign shall
constitute a nuisance.
   (D)   Be located so that it blocks vehicle or pedestrian views and/or safe
sight distances at any intersection, curve or corner. This includes signs
located on private property. Any such sign shall constitute a nuisance.
   (E)   Be hung with less than 7 1/2 feet of vertical clearance above the
sidewalk or less than 15 feet of vertical clearance above the street, drive or
parking area (this applies to any part of a sign, including mounting fixtures
and supporting structures, which is mounted above or projects over any
sidewalk, street, drive or parking area whether on public or private land).
   (F)   Imitate or resemble an official traffic-control device or railroad
sign or signal; attempt to direct the movement of traffic; or hide from view or
hinder the effectiveness of an official traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal. Any such sign shall constitute a nuisance.
   (G)   Be placed closer than six feet to the edge of a road surface.
   (H)   Be allowed which moves or has moving components, or has bright
flashing lights or other distracting features. This does not include signs with
slowly changing messages such as time or temperature.
   (I)   Be located so that it is on or in any way obstructs any sidewalk,
walkway or pathway used by the public for normal pedestrian access.
   (J)   Be painted or installed on any roof surface.
   (K)   Extend above or beyond the building roof line, facade or eaves when
installed on a wall. A facade is a low wall built along one or more sides
around the perimeter of a roof.
   (L)   Be located closer than ten feet any power line. Any such sign shall
constitute a nuisance.
   (M)   Be installed so that it faces contiguous residential property.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16)
§ 156.017 SIGNS ALLOWED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   Following are exempt from the requirement to obtain a permit, subject to
compliance otherwise with the provisions of this code in general and this
article in particular:
   (A)   Signs in locations other than residential areas measuring no more than
eight square feet on property in other than residential areas and three square
feet in residential areas denoting that the property on which the sign is
located is for sale, lease or rent.
   (B)   Signs in residential areas measuring no more than three square feet
denoting the name of the residents and the address of the premises.
   (C)   Signs denoting the architect, engineer or contractor, placed on the
premises where construction, repair or renovation is in progress. Such signs
may not exceed eight square feet in area or four feet in height. All such signs
must be removed within three days after the completion of the project.
   (D)   Auxiliary signs which are not part of another sign and which provide
information such as hours of operations, credit cards accepted, restrictions of
sale to minors, "no soliciting" or "beware of the dog." The area of such
individual signs shall not exceed one square foot, and the aggregate area of
all such signs cannot exceed four square feet for any commercial establishment
or residence.
   (E)   Political signs, which by their content support or oppose any
candidate for public office or any proposition to be voted upon at an election,
or which make a political or ideological statement in the nature of
constitutionally protected non-commercial free speech. Such signs:
      (1)   Cannot have an effective area greater than 36 square feet;
      (2)   Cannot be more than eight feet high;
      (3)   Cannot be illuminated; and
      (4)   Cannot have any moving elements.
      (5)   May be placed up to 60 days prior to a primary, runoff or general
election and up to seven days after the primary, runoff or general election for
which posted.
   (F)   Daily display signs - nonpermanent signs relating to the business
conducted on the premises, placed out of door during business hours for display
and returned indoors during off hours. Such signs:
      (1)   Cannot be larger than six square feet;
      (2)   No more than one such sign per business;
      (3)   Must be located on the leased or rented premises of the business
advertised; and
      (4)   Placement cannot impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic or
interfere with parking.
   (G)   No permit is required to repaint or otherwise repair an existing sign,
provided that the area of the sign is not enlarged, the height of the sign is
not increased, the location of the sign is not changed, and the content of the
sign does not materially change. This provision does not apply to preexisting
nonconforming signs.
   (H)   No permit is required to change the copy on a changeable copy sign.
   (I)   No permit is required for national, state, church, school flags or any
other flag that constitutes protected non-commercial free speech.
   (J)   Event signs - off site. Signs giving directions to an occasional event
at another location, other than a business event at an establishment, such as
directions to a civic or other noncommercial ceremony, to an event for the
members of an organization, or to an event at a residence such as a garage sale
or private party may be placed only on private property and only with the
consent of the owner of the properly. No more than three such signs may be used
to give directions to the same event. Such signs may not exceed three square
feet each, and may not be placed more than 14 days prior to the event, and must
be removed within one day after the conclusion of the event.
   (K)   Event signs - on site. A sign which is placed to advertise or mark the
location of an occasional event on the same site other than a business event at
an establishment, such as civic or other noncommercial ceremony, an event for
the members of an organization, or an event at a residence such as a garage
sale or private party. Such signs may not exceed an area of three square feet
at a residence or 12 square feet at any other location. Such signs may not be
placed more than 14 days prior to the event, and it must be removed within one
day after the conclusion of the event. There shall be not more than three on-
site event signs for any event.
   (L)   Community service signs. Community service signs may be erected only
by a unit of government, school, chamber of commerce, religious organization or
other non-profit agency. The area of a community service sign may not exceed
six square feet in a residential area or 16 square feet in all other areas.
   (M)   A community service sign that promotes any particular event may not be
erected more than 14 days prior to the event and all such signs must be removed
by the responsible party not more than three days after the event.
   (N)   Community service signs that are street banners must conform to
requirements established by the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT).
   (O)   Temporary decorations or displays, when they are clearly incidental to
and are customarily and commonly associated with any national, local or
religious holiday or celebration, and of a non-advertising nature; provided,
that such decorations are maintained in an attractive condition, do not
constitute a fire or traffic or pedestrian hazard, and are removed within a
reasonable time after the event or celebration has occurred.
   (P)   Garage sale signs may be placed for no more than two days on the
premises of the garage sale.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16)
§ 156.018 SIGNS REQUIRING A PERMIT.
   The following signs shall require a permit, issued prior to construction:
   (A)   Signs on property in other than residential areas.
      (1)   Single commercial building. Signs shall be permitted as follows:
         (a)   Attached or painted onto each side of a building. No single sign
may be larger than 32 square feet.
         (b)   One tree standing sign not larger than 24 square feet or taller
than ten feet.
         (c)   One projecting sign not to exceed 12 square feet.
         (d)   The aggregate of all signs may not exceed 80 square feet.
      (2)   Commercial complex. Signs shall be permitted as follows:
         (a)   One free standing sign not larger than 64 square feet or taller
than 12 feet.
            1.   A commercial complex with a land area of two acres or more may
have one freestanding sign along each street which borders the complex for a
distance of 200 feet.
            2.   If the structure of a free standing sign contains or supports
more than one sign, then each sign shall be of the same construction, coloring,
design, and style.
         (b)   Signs housed in the complex not to exceed 50% of the front wall
space.
      (3)   Flags. No flagpole may be higher than 20 feet or extend beyond the
maximum allowable building height limit as established in the city building
regulations, whichever is shorter. At any establishment, the entire area of all
flags shall be counted toward the aggregate for signs on the premises. Flags
may only be illuminated in compliance with this chapter.
      (4)   Illuminated signs.
         (a)   Neon signs are prohibited except for signs no greater than 4.5
square feet located on or inside of a window of an establishment. No more than
two such signs are permitted per business.
         (b)   No sign shall be lighted to such intensity or in such a manner
as to cause glare or brightness to a degree that it constitutes a traffic
hazard. Any such sign shall constitute a nuisance.
         (c)   Signs may not be illuminated by mercury arc or mercury vapor
light sources.
         (d)   Illuminated signs may not be installed facing adjacent or
adjoining residential areas.
      (5)   Inflatable signs. Business related inflatable signs with a volume
greater than 27 cubic feet are prohibited.
   (B)   Business or office signs located on property in residential areas
(applicant should consider this section in conjunction with deed restrictions
and property owners associations' covenants and bylaws).
      (1)   Signs shall be permitted as follows:
         (a)   One sign, no larger than 12 square feet, may be attached to or
painted onto a building.
         (b)   One free standing sign not larger than 3 square feet or taller
than four feet.
         (c)   The aggregate of both signs may not exceed 12 square feet.
      (2)   Flags. No flagpole may be higher than 20 feet or extend beyond the
maximum allowable building height limit as established in the city building
regulations, whichever is shorter.
      (3)   Internally illuminated signs are prohibited.
   (C)   Banners.
      (1)   Street banners.
         (a)   Street banners when they are clearly incidental to and are
customarily and commonly associated with any national, local or religious
holiday or celebration, and of a non-advertising nature; provided, that such
decorations are maintained in an attractive condition, do not constitute a fire
or traffic or pedestrian hazard, and are removed within a reasonable time after
the event or celebration has occurred.
         (b)   Street banners must conform to Texas Department of
Transportation rules and regulations.
         (c)   Street banners may be displayed only at approved city locations
within the city limits and the city's extraterritorial jurisdiction.
         (d)   No more than six street banners may be in place at any one time
within the city limits and the city's extraterritorial jurisdiction.
      (2)   All other banners are permitted as follows:
         (a)   Banners must be kept in good repair throughout the time of their
display.
         (b)   No establishment may display more than two banners at any one
time.
         (c)   Banners may not exceed eight square feet in a residential area
or 24 square feet in all other areas.
         (d)   Banners may not be displayed for more than 31 days in
succession, and they must be removed no more than three days following any
event to which they relate.
         (e)   On-premise banners that announce the location or relocation of
newly located or relocated businesses are permitted without payment of a permit
fee. The banner may be exhibited during a period of no more than 45 days
commencing at the time that the temporary banner permit is issued. Such banners
may not exceed eight square feet in a residential area or 18 square feet in all
other areas.
         (f)   Banners for commercial purposes may not face a residential area.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16; Am. Ord. 103-18, passed 5-15-18)
§ 156.019 PROHIBITED SIGN TYPES.
   (A)   Abandoned signs (See definition in §
156.003).
   (B)   Beacons. This includes any light with a beam directed into the
atmosphere or directed at a point which is not on the same property as the
light source, or a light with one or more beams that move.
   (C)   Billboards. This includes any sign which advertises or calls attention
to any business, product, service, or other activity which is not located on
the same premises as the sign.
   (D)   Portable changeable copy signs. This includes any sign or part of a
sign on which content can be changed without altering the face or surface of
the sign, and which sign is not permanently attached to the ground or to a
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, whether on attached
wheels or otherwise.
   (E)   Flashing signs. Any sign with flashing, blinking, moving or traveling
lights or with lights that change in color or intensity or a sign which uses
lights to form traveling messages or messages which change more than once per
day.
   (F)   Moving signs. Any sign or part of a sign which is animated or moves.
This includes ribbons, streamers, spinners and other similar devices, whether
such devices are intended to be temporary or permanent in nature.
   (G)   Promotional signs. Any generic sign promoting a product or service by
brand name and which is not specific to the establishment displaying the sign.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16)
PERMITS AND MAINTENANCE
§ 156.030 SIGN PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit and fee required. Except as otherwise provided in this
ordinance, no person may construct, reconstruct, place, install, repair,
maintain, relocate any sign without first obtaining a sign permit from the city
through its Permit Department. Each application for a sign permit must be
accompanied by the appropriate fee established by the city. The fees
established herein are as follows:
      (1)   All illuminated signs on premises (electric) - $50.
      (2)   Non-illuminated signs on premises - $20.
      (3)   Spinners, pennants and banners - no charge.
   (B)   Expiration of permits. Permits shall expire if substantial progress on
the approved action has not bee achieved within six months. Substantial
progress shall include good faith initiation of construction of the sign or
significant expenditures of funds toward sign construction.
   (C)   Modifications. After a sign permit has been issued by the city, it
shall be unlawful to deviate from the terms and conditions of the permit
without prior approval by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16)
§ 156.031 SIGN MAINTENANCE AND NUISANCES.
   (A)   All signs and sign structures must be maintained in a structurally
safe condition, and in good repair, and shall not be allowed to become a
dilapidated sign, as defined by this chapter. A sign or sign structure shall
constitute a nuisance if it injures or threatens to injure the public health,
peace or comfort and is a nuisance per se or at common law or is otherwise
declared to be a nuisance or dilapidated sign pursuant to this chapter. The
city shall notify, by certified mail, the responsible party for any sign that
or sign structure constitutes a nuisance determination within ten days of
receipt of the notice. If the responsible party chooses not to take the
instructed action or institute an appeal, the city may repair or remove the
sign or sign structure, to the extent necessary to abate the nuisance. The city
may charge to the responsible party all costs associated with the sign's repair
or removal. An appeal of a nuisance determination shall be to the City Council.
   (B)   Imminent hazard. Any sign or sign structure which in the judgment of
the Building Inspector has become an imminent hazard to public safety shall be
repaired or removed by the responsible party without delay. Notice of the
existence of the hazard shall specify the maximum time which may be allowed for
repairs or removal, and the notice may be served upon the responsible party by
any means available. A sign or sign structure which constitutes an imminent
hazard and is not repaired or removed within the time specified in the notice
shall be removed by the city and the cost of such removal shall be charged to
the responsible party. If a sign or sign structure has been removed by the city
as a hazardous sign and the sign remains unclaimed for a period of more than 30
days, the city may destroy, sell, or otherwise dispose of the sign. A sign or
sign structure presents an imminent hazard when it constitutes a nuisance and
necessitates immediate action to avoid harm to the public health or safety.
   (C)   Removal of sign structure. If there is no sign on a sign structure for
a period of 180 consecutive days, the sign structure must be removed by the
owner of the premises on which the sign is located.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16)
PREEXISTING EXCEPTIONS, VARIANCES, AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 156.045 PREEXISTING NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs which have been installed, and were lawful at the time of
installation, and are in existence as of the effective date of this chapter,
which do not conform to this chapter shall be known as "preexisting non-
conforming signs." Such preexisting non-conforming signs need not comply with
the provisions of this chapter except as follows:
      (1)   Any changes to a preexisting non-conforming sign, other than
routine repair or maintenance, require that said sign be brought into
compliance with all applicable city ordinances.
      (2)   When a preexisting non-conforming sign becomes an abandoned sign,
its status as a preexisting non-conforming sign shall terminate.
   (B)   The lighting of a preexisting non-conforming illuminated sign shall be
brought into conformity with this chapter.
   (C)   Removal of destroyed signs. A preexisting non-conforming sign shall be
considered destroyed if the cost of repairing the sign, after a part of it has
been destroyed or dismantled, is more than 60% of the cost of erecting a new
sign of the same type at the same location. A destroyed sign must be removed by
the responsible party without compensation by the city and within 30 days of
the damage, destruction or dismantling. A preexisting non-conforming sign that
has been destroyed may not be replaced or rebuilt except by a sign which is in
full conformity with this subchapter.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16)
§ 156.046 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Application and fee required. A variance is written approval to depart
from the strict application of the provisions of this chapter. Any person,
business or other organization desiring to continue to construct, reconstruct,
place, install, repair, maintain, relocate, alter or use any sign which does
not conform to the provisions of this article may make application to the City
Council for a variance to the provisions of this subchapter. The application
shall be filed with the City Manager, accompanied by the appropriate fees
established by the city, which are set out in the city's fee schedule for each
application for variance.
   (B)   Standards for variances. The City Council may approve a variance only
if it makes affirmative findings, reflected in the minutes of the City
Council's proceedings, as to all of the followings:
      (1)   The variance will not authorize a type of sign which is
specifically prohibited by this subchapter;
      (2)   The variance is not contrary to the goals and objectives outlined
by the City of Sweeny's comprehensive plan;
      (3)   The variance is not contrary to the public interest; and
      (4)   Due to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the ordinance
would result in unnecessary hardship. Ordinarily, hardship that is self-induced
or that is common to other similarly classified properties will not satisfy
this requirement. Financial or economic hardship alone will not ordinarily
satisfy this requirement.
      (5)   The spirit and purpose of the ordinance will be observed, and
substantial justice will be done.
   (C)   Conditions of variances. The City Council may impose such conditions
or requirements in a variance as are necessary in the City Council's judgment
to achieve the fundamental purposes of this article. A violation of such
conditions or requirements shall constitute a violation of this subchapter. A
variance, if granted, shall be for a specific event, use or other application
of a business and shall not continue with the property. If a variance is
granted and the activity authorized is not substantially underway within six
months of the date of approval of the variance, the variance shall lapse and
become of no force or effect.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16; Am. Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 156.047 CONSTRUCTION.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require or allow any act which is
prohibited under the code. This subchapter is specifically subordinate to any
other code provisions of the city pertaining to safety or building standards.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   Failure to observe and obey the chapter adopted above shall constitute a
misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500, constituting
a separate offense.
(Ord. 102-16, passed - -16)
CHAPTER 157: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY SITING
Section
   
157.01   Purpose and scope
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Permitted use; application and fees
   
157.04   Action on permit applications
   
157.05   Network nodes in the public right-of-way; maximum height; other
requirements
   
157.06   Effect of permit
   
157.07   Removal, relocation or modification of network nodes in the ROW
   
157.08   Public right-of-way rate
   
157.09   Attachment to service poles in the public right-of-way
   
157.10   Transport facility
   
157.11   Design manual
§ 157.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for the placement of node support poles in the right-of -way and
network nodes in the public right-of-way and on service poles within the city's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefits and will be consistent with
the preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city
public right-of-way and the city as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the city is establishing uniform
standards to address issues presented by network nodes, including without
limitation, ensuring that network nodes or node support poles do not adversely
affect:
      (1)   Use of streets, sidewalks, alleys, parkways and other public ways
and places;
      (2)   Vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   The operation of facilities lawfully located in public right-of-way
or public property;
      (4)   The ability of the city to protect the environment, including the
prevention of damage to trees;
      (5)   The character of residential and historic areas, and city parks, in
which network nodes may be installed; and
      (6)   The rapid deployment of network nodes to provide the benefits of
wireless services.
   (C)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters,
parts of chapters or rules adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith,
to the extent of such conflict.
(Ord. 101-18, passed 2-20-18)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   All terms used in this chapter, not specifically defined herein, have the
meaning provided in Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Ch. 284.
   APPLICABLE LAW. Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Ch. 284.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a network provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant:
      (1)   For a permit to collocate network nodes;
      (2)   To install a transport facility; or
      (3)   Approve the installation, replacement or modification of a pole.
   CITY CODE. Those ordinance provisions relevant to use of the public right-
of-way where compliant with applicable law.
   DAY. Calendar day.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization, including the city.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE.
      (1)   Work in the public right-of-way that does not require excavation or
closing of sidewalks or vehicular lanes in a public right-of-way;
      (2)   Replacing or upgrading a network node or pole with a node or pole
that is substantially similar in size or smaller and that does not require
excavation or closing of sidewalks or vehicular lanes in a public right-of-way;
or
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of micro network nodes that are strung on cables between existing poles or node
support poles, in the public right-of-way.
   TECHNICAL GROUNDS. In light of prevailing industry and engineering
standards, reasons of insufficiency of capacity, safety, reliability and/or
generally applicable engineering purposes consistent with applicable law and
City Code.
(Ord. 101-18, passed 2-20-18)
§ 157.03 PERMITTED USE; APPLICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Collocation of network nodes and the placement of node
support poles, meeting the parameters set forth in §
157.05 below and in applicable law, shall be a permitted use. No zoning or land
use review shall apply, subject to the requirements in §
157.05.
   (B)   Permit required. No person shall place a network node, transport
facility or node support pole in the public right-of-way, without first filing
a permit application and obtaining a permit therefore, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Permit application. All permit applications filed pursuant to this
chapter shall be on a form, paper or electronic, provided by the city. The
applicant may designate portions of its application materials that it
reasonably believes contain proprietary or confidential information as
“proprietary” or “confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials
accordingly.
   (D)   Application requirements. The permit application shall be made by the
network provider or its duly authorized representative and shall contain the
following:
      (1)   The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and e-mail
address.
      (2)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and e-mail addresses of
all consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with respect to the
fifing of the application.
      (3)   Construction and engineering drawings and information confirming
that the construction will be consistent with city code.
   (E)   Routine maintenance and replacement. A permit application shall not be
required for:
      (1)   Routine maintenance; or
      (2)   For the replacement of a node with another node that is
substantially similar.
   (F)   Information updates. Any amendment to information contained in a
permit application shall be submitted in writing to the city within 30 days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   (G)   Application fees. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be accompanied by fees as set in the city's fee schedule.
(Ord. 101-18, passed 2-20-18; Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 157.04 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Review of applications. The city shall review applications for network
nodes, node support poles and transport facilities in light of their conformity
with applicable law and city code and shall issue such permits on
nondiscriminatory terms and conditions subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Within 30 days of receiving an application for a network node or
node support pole, or ten days for a transport facility, the city shall
determine and notify the applicant whether the application is complete; or if
incomplete, the city must specifically identify the missing information in such
notification. There shall be no fee charged for completion and resubmittal of
an application.
      (2)   The city shall make its final decision to approve or deny a
complete application no later than:
         (a)   Twenty-one days after receipt of a complete application for a
transport facility;
         (b)   Sixty days after receipt of a complete application for a network
node; and
         (c)   One hundred and fifty days after receipt of a completed
application for a new node support pole.
      (3)   The city shall advise the applicant in writing of its final
decision, and, if denied, the basis for that denial, including specific
provisions of city code or applicable law on which the denial was based, and
send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the city denies
the application. The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the city
and resubmit the application within 30 days of the denial without paying an
additional application fee. The city shall approve or deny the revised
application within 90 days of receipt of the amended application. The
subsequent review by the city shall be limited to the deficiencies cited in the
original denial.
      (4)   If the City fails to act on an application within the review period
specified in this §
157.04, the application shall be deemed approved.
      (5)   An applicant seeking to collocate network nodes may, at the
applicant's discretion, file a consolidated application and receive permits for
up to 30 network nodes. Provided however, the city's denial of any node within
a single application shall not affect other nodes submitted in the same
application. The city shall grant permits for any and all nodes in a single
application that it does not deny, subject to the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Review of eligible facilities requests. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this chapter, the city shall approve and may not deny applications
for eligible facilities requests within 60 days according to the procedures
established under 47 CFR 1.40001(c).
(Ord. 101-18, passed 2-20-18)
§ 157.05 NETWORK NODES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY; MAXIMUM HEIGHT; OTHER
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Maximum size of permitted use. Collocation of permitted use network
nodes in the public right-of-way shall be subject to the size limitations
specified in Local Gov’t Code, Ch. 284.003.
   (B)   Undergrounding provisions. A network provider shall comply with
nondiscriminatory undergrounding requirements, zoning regulations, state law,
private deed restrictions, and other public or private restrictions, that
prohibit installing aboveground structures in a public right-of-way without
first obtaining zoning or land use approval. This requirement or restriction
shall not be interpreted to prohibit a network provider from replacing an
existing structure.
   (C)   Historic areas and design districts. Subject to the permit application
approval time frames in §
157.04, a network provider must obtain advance approval from the city before
collocating new network nodes or installing new node support poles in any areas
zoned or designated as a historic district or as a design district if the
district has decorative poles. Such installations shall be subject to the
design and aesthetic standards of such areas.
   (D)   Installation in municipal parks and residential areas. A network
provider may not install a new node support pole in a public right-of-way
without the city's discretionary, nondiscriminatory, written consent if the
public right-of-way is located in a municipal park or is adjacent to a street
or thoroughfare that is:
      (1)   Not more than 50 feet wide; and
      (2)   Adjacent to single-family residential lots or other multifamily
residences or undeveloped land that is designated for residential use by zoning
or deed restrictions. A network provider shall comply with private deed
restrictions and other private restrictions when installing network nodes in
parks and residential areas.
   (E)   Zoning. A network provider seeking to construct, replace or modify a
pole or node in the public right-of-way that exceeds the height or size limits
contained in this section, shall be subject to applicable zoning requirements.
(Ord. 101-18, passed 2-20-18)
§ 157.06 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted. A permit from the city authorizes an applicant to
undertake only certain activities in accordance with this chapter, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the applicant to impinge upon the
rights of others who may already have an interest in the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Time of installation. A network provider shall begin the installation
for which a permit is granted not later than six months after final approval
and shall diligently pursue the installation to completion. Provided, however,
the city may place a longer time limit on completion or grant reasonable
extensions of time as requested by the network provider.
   (C)   Right to occupy. Once a network provider has collocated a network node
or placed a node support pole pursuant to a permit, the provider shall be
permitted to continue to maintain such collocation or such pole unless required
to remove or relocate under the terms of this chapter.
   (D)   Interference with network nodes. City will not grant a permit to any
person to install any network node or other wireless facility if the city knows
or has reason to know that such person's use of such network node of other
wireless facility may in any way adversely affect or interfere with the use and
operation of an existing and operational network node for which the city has
previously issued a permit.
(Ord. 101-18, passed 2-20-18)
§ 157.07 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF NETWORK NODES IN THE ROW.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the city, a
network provider shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
network node or node support pole within the public right-of-way whenever the
city has determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any city improvement in or upon, or the operations of the city in or upon,
the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The city retains the
right and privilege to disconnect or move any network node located within the
public right-of-way of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary,
appropriate or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the city shall notify the network provider and allow the
network provider an opportunity to move its own facilities prior to the city
disconnecting or removing a facility and shall notify the network provider
after disconnecting or removing a network node or node support pole.
   (C)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a network node or node
support pole within the public right-of-way, the network provider shall notify
the city within 90 days. Following receipt of such notice, the city may direct
the network provider to remove all or any portion of a network node or node
support pole if the city, or any of its departments, determines, subject to
city code, that such removal is necessary to protect public health, safety and
welfare.
(Ord. 101-18, passed 2-20-18)
§ 157.08 PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY RATE.
   (A)   Annual rate. Once a network provider has installed and made
operational a network node in the public right-of-way, network provider shall
pay to the city compensation for use of the public right-of-way in the amount
of $250 annually per node in the city public right-of-way.
   (B)   Cease payment. A network provider is authorized to remove its
facilities at any time from the public right-of-way and cease paying the city
compensation for use of the public right-of-way following removal and
notification to the city of such removal.
(Ord. 101-18, passed 2-20-18)
§ 157.09 ATTACHMENT TO SERVICE POLES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   A network provider shall be permitted to attach network nodes to city-owned
service poles, consistent with applicable law and city code and subject to the
requirements specified herein.
   (A)   Permits. A network provider shall obtain a permit, pursuant to the
terms of this chapter, prior to collocating network nodes on service poles.
   (B)   Make ready. Network provider shall be responsible for costs for make
ready work on city service poles to which provider seeks to place a network
node.
   (C)   Technical limitations. In the event the city determines, based upon
technical grounds, that inadequate space exists on a service pole to
accommodate the proposed network node, such pole may be replaced by network
provider, at the network provider's expense, with a service pole with adequate
space to accommodate the proposed network node.
   (D)   Facilities rearrangements. If another provider would have to rearrange
or adjust any of its facilities to accommodate a new network node, the city
shall use reasonable efforts to work with the affected providers to coordinate
such activity. All make ready work shall comply with NESC, and other applicable
codes. The applicant shall not be responsible for any third-party costs,
including those of other network providers, to adjust existing attachments that
are non-compliant with the NESC and other applicable codes at the time of the
application.
   (E)   Service pole attachment fee. The rate to collocate a network node on a
service pole in the public right-of-way shall be as set in the city's fee
schedule. Subject to the provisions of §
157.10, such compensation together with the application fee and the public
right-of-way rate specified in §
157.08 shall be the sole compensation that the network provider shall be
required to pay to the city.
   (F)   Cease payment. A network provider is authorized to remove its
facilities at any time from a service pole in the public right-of-way and cease
paying the attachment fee to the city upon notification to the city that the
facilities have been removed.
(Ord. 101-18, passed 2-20-18; Ord. 101-21, passed 3-16-21)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
38.01
§ 157.10 TRANSPORT FACILITY.
   Installation of transport facilities, including applicable compensation to
the city for such facilities, shall be governed by Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Ch.
284.055.
(Ord. 101-18, passed 2-20-18)
§ 157.11 DESIGN MANUAL.
   A network provider shall comply with the city's design manual, if any, in
place on the date a permit application is filed in relation to work for which
the city has approved a permit application. The city's design manual may not
conflict with applicable law and must be competitively neutral.
(Ord. 101-18, passed 2-20-18)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   STREET RENAMING
         
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS; PURCHASES
         
III.   ANNEXATIONS
         
IV.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
         
V.   STREET AND SIDEWALK CLOSINGS AND VACATIONS
         
VI.   CONSTRUCTION; IMPROVEMENTS
TABLE I: STREET RENAMING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Renaming a portion of Mac Drive, lying between the 1,200
109-96   8-20-96     block of Elm Street and the 1,200 block of Mac Drive, to
                     Mac Court
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS; PURCHASES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
13       8-13-46     Purchase of the privately-owned waterworks system by the
                     city; awarding a bid; contract for purchase
44       1-30-52     Sale and conveyance of little used city property near the
                     city's waterworks site
R. 59    5-29-56     Conveyance of a portion of Lot 8, Block 53, to the owners
                     of Lot 7, Block 37; deliverance of deed
                     Execution of a contract between the city and the law firm
67       - -         of Bass and Holder for the enforcement of back tax
                     collection
102      3-20-62     Execution of gas purchase contracts; amendments
103      4- -62      Execution of revised escrow agreement; agreement for
                     cancellation of a construction contract
                     Agreement to transfer all rights, titles, interests,
112      1-5-63      obligations, assets and liabilities of the Sweeny Hospital
                     to the Board of Trustees of the Sweeny-Old Ocean Hospital
                     District
213      2-4-74      Purchase of certain land situated in the city for parks
                     and recreation purposes; negotiations
225      6-15-76     Purchase of machinery; execution of contract
23       5- -76      Approval of contracts for the drilling and installation of
                     a water well and a water transfer line
251      5-2-78      Purchase of real property, being Lots 1, 2 and 3 in the
                     city
—      1-16-96     Extension of lease agreement
105-98   6-16-98     Participation in County Community Development Block Grant
                     and home programs
                     Amendment to a contract between the city and the Law
101-04A  10-21-03    Office of Jerry Shiever in partnership with Perdue,
                     Brandon, Fielder, Collins and Mott, LLP for the collection
                     of delinquent taxes.
                     Agreement by the city to designate certain properties as a
104-06   5-16-06     Reinvestment Zone, including Lots 1-14 and 27-28 in Block
                     39 of the Sweeny Townsite, Brazoria County.
                     Agreement to a tax abatement between the city and Bruce
                     Gingrich for certain improvements to be made within
105-06   5-16-06     certain properties, including Lots 1-14 and 27-28 in Block
                     39 of the Sweeny Townsite, Brazoria County, hereinafter
                     referred to as Reinvestment Zone No. 1.
                     Authorizing the mayor to execute a professional services
104-09   10-20-09    contract with Perdue, Brandon, Fielder, Collins & Mott,
                     LLP for the collection of delinquent court fees and fines.
                     Contract for the collection of delinquent accounts between
106-13   8-20-13     the city and Perdue, Brandon, Fielder, Collins & Mott,
                     LLP.
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
115      10-15-63    Annexation of certain property
126      1-5-65      Annexation of certain property
140      2-15-66     Annexation of certain property
163      9-3-68      Annexation of certain property
185      8-3-71      Annexation of certain property
188      4-4-72      Annexation of certain property
257      7-5-76      Annexation of certain property
291      1-12-81     Annexation of certain property
295      1-20-81     Annexation of certain property
298      6-2-81      Annexation of certain property
111-93   3-22-92     Annexation of certain property
105-94   4-19-94     Annexation of certain property
110-95   3-21-95     Annexation of certain property
102-98   1-20-98     Annexation of certain property
104-98   5-19-98     Annexation of certain property
107-98   8-18-98     Annexation of certain property
101-00   12-21-99    Annexation of certain property
104-03   4-15-03     Annexation of certain property
107-07   6-19-07     Annexation of certain property
102-10   2-16-10     Annexation of certain property
103-10   2-16-10     Annexation of certain property
104-11   6-21-11     Annexation of certain property
100-19   2-19-19     Deannexation of certain property
24-108   10-15-24    Deannexation of certain property
25-114   9-30-25     Deannexation of certain property
                    
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1        9-5-45      Franchise agreement with Community Public Service Company
                     for electricity distribution
27       5-5-48      Franchise conditions; Community Public Service Company;
                     construction and maintenance authorization
30       8-4-48      Franchise agreement with Garrison Telephone Company for
                     telephone services
47A      3-19-52     Franchise agreement with Community Public Service Company
                     for electricity distribution
                     Franchise agreement with Sweeny-Old Ocean Telephone
49       - -         Company for telephone services; construction and erection
                     of poles, lines and the like
58       6-19-56     Franchise agreement with Community Public Service Company
                     for electricity distribution
61       3-20-55     Franchise agreement with Sweeny-Old Ocean Telephone
                     Company for telephone services
81       7-5-60      Franchise agreement with Community Public Service Company
                     for electricity distribution
142      4-19-66     Extension of franchise agreement set out in Ord. 49;
                     Sweeny-Old Ocean Telephone Company
265      3-6-79      Franchise agreement with Clive Runnells for a community
                     antenna television system
275      10-2-79     Franchise agreement with Sweeny-Old Ocean Telephone
                     Company for telephone services
                     Franchise agreement; transfer of cable television
112-88   11-18-87    distribution from Mid-Coast Cable Television, Inc., to
                     Northland Cable Properties Seven Limited Partnership
                     Franchise agreement; transfer of cable television
102-90   11-21-89    distribution from Northland Cable Properties Seven Limited
                     Partnership to Sagebrush Cable Limited Partnership
111-91   9-10-91     Franchise agreement with Waste Management of Southeast
                     Texas for garbage collection services
                     Franchise agreement; transfer of cable television
109-92   8-13-92     distribution from Sagebrush Cable Limited Partnership to
                     Falcon Video Communications, L.P.
112-93   3-22-93     Franchise agreement with Sugar Land Telephone Company for
                     telephone services
103-96   1-16-96     Franchise agreement with Falcon Video Communications for a
                     cable television system
113-04   9-21-04     Extension and amendment of the cable franchise of Charter
                     Communications VI, LLC, dba Charter Communications.
                     Extending Ordinance No. 333-85, the electric franchise
104-05   4-8-05      ordinance, for six months from its termination date of
                     April 16, 2005.
                     Extending Ordinance No. 333-85, the electric franchise
106-05   9-29-05     ordinance, for 30 days from its present termination date
                     of October 16, 2005.
                     Adopting a transmission and distribution electric utility
100-06   10-18-05    franchise for use of the public rights-of-way to locate
                     electric facilities.
 
TABLE V: STREET AND SIDEWALK CLOSINGS AND VACATIONS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
134  8-17-  Closing of a portion of Main Street’s sidewalks to public use; locomotion
     65     utilization
197  6-19-  Vacation of a portion of an alley in the Hillcrest Subdivision
     73
            Closing and abandoning an easement within the city, known as the Hospital
106- 3-26-  Ditch, and establishing plans to create a new easement parallel to the one
04   04     to be abandoned; said easement to be established at the expense of the
            Sweeny Community Hospital District
102- 8-15-  Closing and abandoning a road easement situated between Block 4 and Block
17   17     21, Sweeny Townsite
108- 12-21- Closing and abandoning a road easement located between Block 1 and Block 2,
21   21     Rose Terrace Subdivision
           
 
TABLE VI: CONSTRUCTION; IMPROVEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
51       9-2-56      Construction of water and sewer improvements
55       10-16-56    Construction of additions to the water and sanitary sewers
                     systems of the city
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS STATUTES
Administrative Code
 
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
16 Chapter 69      151.04
25 § 229.161      115.01
25 § 229.371(6)   115.03
                   
 
Business and Commerce Code
 
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
17.46 et seq.      110.08
 
Criminal Procedure Code
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
Art. 45.052        37.31
Art. 45.053        37.31
Art. 45.056        37.32
Art. 45.203        33.01
Art. 45.541(p)     33.01
Art. 45.541(q)     33.01
Art. 102.0174      37.30
 
Election Code
 
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
                   
 
Family Code
 
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
Chapter 51         130.99
Chapter 52         130.99
                   
 
Government Code
 
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
140.009            37.03
851.001 et seq.    32.03
 
Health & Safety Code
 
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
Chapter 437        115.01,
                   115.02
481.134            130.08
Chapter 822        95.40
                   
 
Local Government Code
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
Chapter 42         152.01
54.001             10.99,
                   115.99
214.001            150.37
Chapter 252        152.32
Chapter 283        91.41
Chapter 284        157.02
284.003            157.05
284.055            157.10
                   
 
Occupations Code
 
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
2153.004           130.07
                   
 
Parks and Wildlife Code
 
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
Chapter 64         95.26
 
Penal Code
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
21.08              130.08
21.11              130.08
22.011             130.08
22.021             130.08
25.02              130.08
38.10              33.01
43.25              130.08
43.26              130.08
 
Revised Civil Statutes
 
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
Art. 2368a         152.66
Art. 5221f         151.04
 
Tax Code
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
Chapter 31         37.19
31.02              37.19 
31.03              37.19
Chapter 32         37.19
Chapter 33         37.19,
                   92.03
33.01              37.19
33.03              37.19
33.07              37.19
33.08              37.19
33.41              37.19
33.42              37.19
33.47              37.19
33.53              37.19
Chapter 34         37.19
34.01              37.19
321.210(a)         37.17
321.210(b)         37.17
 
Transportation Code
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
Chapter 396        111.01
502.001            77.01
502.001(7)         77.01
502.001(18)        77.01
502.281            111.01
543.00             33.01
547.703            77.02
551.301            71.65
551.404            77.02
643                111.01
683.071 et seq.    90.01
683.078            90.03
                   
 
Water Code
 
Texas Statute Cite Code Section
16.315             153.01
26.177             154.50
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
59       5-29-56     T.S.O. II
—      5-16-2023   37.21
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
49         - -         T.S.O. IV
67         - -         T.S.O. II
1          9-5-45      T.S.O. IV
13         8-13-46     T.S.O. II
27         5-5-48      T.S.O. IV
30         8-4-48      T.S.O. IV
                       70.01,
                       70.02,
                       70.20,
                       70.21,
                       70.35—
                       70.39,
                       71.01,
                       71.15—
33         11-23-48    71.17,
                       71.19—
                       71.26,
                       71.40,
                       71.41,
                       71.55—
                       71.64,
                       72.01—
                       72.09
34         1-19-49     35.70
44         1-30-52     T.S.O. II
47A        3-19-52     T.S.O. IV
61         3-20-55     T.S.O. IV
58         6-19-56     T.S.O. IV
51         9-2-56      T.S.O. VI
55         10-16-56    T.S.O. VI
65         11-5-58     130.05
69         2-17-59     74.01—
                       74.03
65A        6-2-60      130.05
81         7-5-60      T.S.O. IV
88         3-21-61     94.01—
                       94.10
102        3-20-62     T.S.O. II
103        4- -62      T.S.O. II
110        11-20-62    130.04
112        1-5-63      T.S.O. II
115        10-15-63    T.S.O. III
119A       3-17-64     35.55—
                       35.58
126        1-5-65      T.S.O. III
133        7-20-65     93.01
134        8-17-65     T.S.O. V
136        9-21-65     92.03
140        2-15-66     T.S.O. III
142        4-19-66     T.S.O. IV
144        12-6-66     71.18
—        1-3-67      130.06
146        1-3-67      71.18
152        4-18-67     94.03
154        9-5-67      35.55—
                       35.58
156        10-19-67    31.04
161        5-21-68     70.05
163        9-3-68      T.S.O. III
171        3-7-70      70.05
185        8-3-71      T.S.O. III
187        2-1-72      73.01—
                       73.10
188        4-4-72      T.S.O. III
197        6-19-73     T.S.O. V
213        2-4-74      T.S.O. II
203        4-2-74      35.35—
                       35.41
209        9-3-74      70.04
217        10-7-75     130.02
223        3-16-76     92.02
225        6-15-76     T.S.O. II
235        - -76       T.S.O. II
257        7-5-76      T.S.O. III
245        1-12-78     94.03
251        5-2-78      T.S.O. II
256        7-5-78      70.03
258        7-5-78      50.15—
                       50.17
261        10-3-78     51.02
264        2-20-79     37.18
265        3-6-79      T.S.O. IV
266        5-1-79      31.03
269        7-3-79      94.21
272        8-21-79     Chapter 75, Schedule IV
279        9-18-79     150.01
275        10-2-79     T.S.O. IV
291        1-12-81     T.S.O. III
295        1-20-81     T.S.O. III
298        6-2-81      T.S.O. III
317        3-1-83      36.01—
                       36.09
                       152.01,
                       152.02,
                       152.15—
                       152.18,
                       152.30—
328        11-20-84    152.33,
                       152.45—
                       152.55,
                       152.65—
                       152.67,
                       152.81,
                       152.82
330        2-5-85      94.20
332-85     2-19-85     151.25—
                       151.29
                       153.01—
                       153.12,
                       153.25—
102-87     3-17-87     153.29,
                       153.40—
                       153.42,
                       153.99
108-87     8-18-87     37.17
109-87     8-18-87     33.01
106-89     9-19-87     37.15
110-88     10-20-87    31.02
112-88     11-18-87    T.S.O. IV
113-88     12-15-87    53.01—
                       53.07
117-88     7-19-88     30.02
101-89     1-17-89     31.01
                       153.01—
                       153.12,
                       153.25—
102-89     1-17-89     153.29,
                       153.40—
                       153.42,
                       153.99
                       153.01—
                       153.12,
                       153.25—
104-89     2-21-89     153.29,
                       153.40—
                       153.42,
                       153.99
102-90     11-21-89    T.S.O. IV
103-69B-90 12-19-89    74.01—
                       74.03
106-90     2-20-90     Chapter 75, Schedule IV
—        7-17-90     110.01—
                       110.14
101-91     11-20-90    34.01—34.11
102-91     12-18-90    111.01—
                       111.03
                       154.25—
103-91     12-18-90    154.39,
                       154.50—
                       154.52
105-91     2-19-91     95.25,
                       95.26
106-91     3-19-91     33.02
107-91     4-16-91     94.07
111-91     9-10-91     T.S.O. IV
111-93     3-22-92     T.S.O. III
105-93     5-19-92     92.04
107-92     7-21-92     92.01,
                       92.99
109-92     8-13-92     T.S.O. IV
101-93     12-15-92    70.06
107-93     2-16-93     Chapter 76, Schedule I
112-93     3-22-93     T.S.O. IV
                       Chapter 75, Schedules
                       I,
113-93     3-22-93     III,
                       VI,
                       VII
114-93     5-18-93     Chapter 76, Schedule II
115-93     9-21-93     51.01
102-94     10-19-93    35.01—
                       35.06
105-93     12-15-93    94.11
105-94     4-19-94     T.S.O. III
101-95     10-18-94    130.99
102-95     10-18-94    Chapter 75, Schedule II
103-95     10-25-94    150.30—
                       150.38
104-95     11-15-94    Chapter 75, Schedule I
106-95     11-15-94    150.15
                       152.01,
                       152.02,
                       152.15—
                       152.18,
                       152.30—
108-95     2-21-95     152.33,
                       152.45—
                       152.55,
                       152.65—
                       152.67,
                       152.81,
                       152.82
110-95     3-21-95     T.S.O. III
111-95     5-16-95     50.02
113-95     8-15-95     Chapter 75, Schedule V
102-96     11-21-95    Chapter 75, Schedule I
—        1-16-96     T.S.O. II
103-96     1-16-96     T.S.O. IV
107-96     4-16-96     90.01—
                       90.05
109-96     8-20-96     T.S.O. I
103-97     2-18-97     150.16
105-97     7-15-97     150.17
102-98     1-20-98     T.S.O. III
104-98     5-19-98     T.S.O. III
105-98     6-16-98     T.S.O. II
107-98     8-18-98     T.S.O. III
                       151.01—
                       151.13,
104-99     5-10-99     151.25—
                       151.29,
                       151.99
105        6-15-99     151.07
107-99     8-17-99     37.01
101-00     12-21-99    T.S.O. III
101-01     1-22-01     Chapter 75, Schedule IV
103-01     5-15-01     91.01—
                       91.04
104-01     6-7-01      37.02
100-03     11-19-02    150.02
101-03     11-19-02    150.15
102-03     1-21-03     Adopting Ordinance
104-03     4-15-03     T.S.O. III
                       91.10 -
105-03     4-15-03     91.16,
                       91.99
106-03     9-16-03     37.16
100-04     10-21-03    150.03
101-04A    10-21-03    37.19,
                       T.S.O. II
101-04     11-18-03    Adopting Ordinance
102-04     12-16-03    71.65
103-04     2-17-04     151.03,
                       151.04
105-04     3-16-04     130.07
106-04     3-26-04     T.S.O. V
109-04     8-17-04     71.65
110-04     8-17-04     71.66
111-04     8-17-04     94.30
113-04     9-21-04     T.S.O. IV
103-05     1-18-05     Adopting Ordinance
104-05     4-8-05      T.S.O. IV
106-05     9-29-05     T.S.O. IV
100-06     10-18-05    T.S.O. IV
103-06     4-25-06     130.08
104-06     5-16-06     T.S.O. II
105-06     5-16-06     T.S.O. II
100-07     10-17-06    92.03
102-07     2-20-07     130.09,
                       130.99
103-07     3-20-07     130.07,
                       130.99
104-07     5-15-07     155.01
107-07     6-19-07     T.S.O. III
109-07     9-18-07     155.01
100-08     10-16-07    Adopting Ordinance
                       97.01 -
101-08     11-20-07    97.12,
                       97.99
                       153.01 -
                       153.12,
                       153.25 -
104-08     12-18-07    153.29,
                       153.40 -
                       153.42,
                       153.99
103-08     1-15-08     155.01
110-08     8-19-08     37.30 -
                       37.32
                       113.01,
109-08     9-23-08     113.04,
                       113.99
102-09     2-17-09     33.03,
                       Ch. 33, Appendix A
101-09     3-17-09     112.01,
                       112.02
104-09     10-20-09    T.S.O. II
101-10     11-17-09    92.99
102-10     2-16-10     T.S.O. III
103-10     2-16-10     T.S.O. III
105-10     6-15-10     51.02
106-10     7-20-10     35.70
                       98.01 -
100-11     11-16-10    98.06,
                       98.99
102-11     3-15-11     130.10,
                       130.99
104-11     6-21-11     T.S.O. III
106-11     9-20-11     113.04
105-12     5-22-12     154.01 -
                       154.07
106-12     8-21-12     150.18
110-12     11-20-12    95.15
105-13     5-28-13     151.07
106-13     8-20-13     37.03,
                       T.S.O. II
109-13     9-17-13     37.15
101-14     12-17-13    94.21
102-14     12-17-13    37.04
104-14     7-15-14     31.04
101-15     12-16-14    150.18
                       95.01 -
                       95.12,
102-15     12-16-14    95.25,
                       95.26,
                       95.40
100-16     10-20-15    95.13
101-16     7-19-16     95.13
                       156.001 -
                       156.003,
                       156.015 -
                       156.019,
102-16     - -16       156.030,
                       156.031,
                       156.045 -
                       156.047,
                       156.999
100-17     10-18-16    34.01 -
                       34.05
102-17     8-15-17     T.S.O. V
101-18     2-20-18     157.01 -
                       157.11
103-18     5-15-18     156.018
104-18     5-15-18     151.07
106-18     9-4-18      92.99
100-19     2-19-19     T.S.O. III
104-19     11-19-19    92.05
                       77.01 -
101-20     2-18-20     77.07,
                       77.99
104-20     10-20-20    151.04
                       115.01 -
107-20     12-15-20    115.04,
                       115.99
                       99.01 -
100-21     3-16-21     99.04,
                       99.99
                       37.02,
                       37.04,
                       38.01,
                       91.04,
                       91.12,
                       95.09,
                       95.10,
101-21     3-16-21     110.06,
                       112.01,
                       150.03,
                       151.07,
                       151.09,
                       154.33,
                       156.046,
                       157.03,
                       157.09
102-21     4-20-21     151.04
                       150.15 -
103-21     7-20-21     150.17,
                       150.19,
                       150.20
                       77.01 -
104-21     9-21-21     77.07,
                       77.99
108-21     12-21-21    T.S.O. V
                       35.01,
100-22     2-15-22     35.02,
                       35.05
103-22     4-19-22     94.30
104-22     4-19-22     112.02
106-22     4-19-22     151.04
                       153.07,
                       153.25,
107-22     4-19-22     153.26,
                       153.28,
                       153.42
108-22     6-21-22     91.30,
                       91.31
                       91.40,
109-22     7-25-22     91.41,
                       91.99
22-112     9-20-22     150.21
                       100.01 -
23-102     3-21-23     100.08,
                       100.20
                       113.01 -
23-104     6-26-23     113.06,
                       113.99
23-105     6-26-23     37.20
23-108     10-24-23    110.02
23-109     10-24-23    115.02,
                       115.04
23-110     11-15-23    95.07
24-102     5-21-24     115.01
24-103     6-18-24     52.01 -
                       52.11
24-104     7-23-24     35.01,
                       35.02
24-108     10-15-24    T.S.O. III
25-102     2-18-25     38.01
25-106     5-20-25     91.40,
                       91.41
25-M100    5-20-25     Chapter 75, Schedule IV
25-109     8-26-25     37.16
25-110     9-16-25     95.02
25-111     9-16-25     150.04
25-113     9-30-25     35.85 -
                       35.89
25-114     9-30-25     T.S.O. III
                      
 
