CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-13 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2009-015
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF TRINIDAD REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affair; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Texas empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF TRINIDAD:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Trinidad, Texas.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
               10. Rules of Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
               30. Administration Generally
               31. City Employees and Officials
               32. City Departments, Boards, Commissions and the Like
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
               50. Public Utilities Generally
               51. Sewers and Sanitation
               52. Water; Wastewater; Solid Waste Collection
               53. Natural Gas
               54. Drought Contingency Plan
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
               70. General Provisions
               71. Traffic Schedules
               72. Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
               90. Public Nuisances
               91. Public Safety
               92. Streets, Rights-of-Way and Other City Facilities and Lands
               93. Fair Housing Regulations
               94. Animal Code
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
               110. Itinerant Merchants, Vendors, Peddlers and the Like
               111. Junk and Salvage Yards
               112. Sidewalk, Garage and Outdoor Sales
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
               130. Curfew
               131. Firearms
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
               150. Building Regulations; Construction
               151. Zoning
               152. Flood Damage Prevention
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   (Reserved)
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Texas Codes
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Ordinances adopted after September 30, 2009, that amend or refer
to ordinances that have been codified in the Code of Ordinances shall be
construed as if they amend or refer to like provisions of the Code of
Ordinances.
Section 5.   This Code of Ordinances shall be deemed published as of the day of
its adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the
Code of Ordinances in the Office of the City Secretary.
Section 6.   This Code of Ordinances shall be in full force and effect as
provided herein, and this Code of Ordinances shall be presumptive evidence in
all courts and places of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties
and regulations therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same
is properly signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public
hearings and notices thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 7.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED on this 17th day of November, 2009.
ATTEST:               CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS
/s/ Terri Newhouse           /s/ Larry D. Estes
City Secretary               Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 2012-001
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND
COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION
DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN
EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed Second Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF TRINIDAD:
Section 1.   That the Second supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision are hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED on this 21st day of February 2012.
ATTEST:                  CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS
/s/ Terri Newhouse           /s/ Larry D. Estes
Terri Newhouse, City Secretary         Larry D. Estes, Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 2013-001
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND
COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION
DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN
EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed Third Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF TRINIDAD:
Section 1.   That the Third supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision are hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED on this 19th day of February 2013.
ATTEST:                  CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS
/s/ Terri Newhouse           /s/ Larry D. Estes
Terri Newhouse, City Secretary         Larry D. Estes, Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 2014-003
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND
COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION
DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN
EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF TRINIDAD:
Section 1.   That the S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision are hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED on this 29th day of July 2014.
ATTEST:                  CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS
/s/ Terri Newhouse           /s/ Larry Estes
Terri Newhouse, City Secretary         Larry Estes, Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 2017-002
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND
COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION
DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN
EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-7 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF TRINIDAD:
Section 1.   That the S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision are hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED on this 21st day of February 2017.
ATTEST:               CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS
______________________________      ____________________________________
Terri Newhouse, City Secretary      Kay Hernandez, Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-005
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND
COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION
DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN
EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed S-8 and S-9 Supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF TRINIDAD:
Section 1.   That the S-8 and S-9 supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision are hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED on this 19th day of July 2018.
CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS          ATTEST:               
______________________________      ____________________________________
Larry Estes, Mayor               Terri Newhouse, City Secretary
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-009
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND
COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION
DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN
EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed S-11 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF TRINIDAD:
Section 1.   That the S-11 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision are hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED on this 17th day of December 2019.
CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS          ATTEST:               
______________________________      ____________________________________
Terri Newhouse, City Secretary         Larry Estes, Mayor      
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering or tampering with code
   
10.20   Liability for penalty
   
10.21   Copies of code as evidence
   
10.22   Burden of proving exception
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Trinidad, Texas,
shall be designated as the Code of Trinidad and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Loc. Gov't Code Ch.
53
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Trinidad,
Henderson County, Texas.
      CITY SECRETARY, CHIEF OF POLICE or OTHER CITY OFFICERS or DEPARTMENTS.
The City Secretary/Administrator, Chief of Police or such other municipal
officers or department, respectively, of the City of Trinidad, Texas.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Henderson County, Texas.
      HIGHWAY or STREET. When used in this code, shall include any street,
alley, highway, avenue, public place or square, bridge, viaduct, tunnel,
underpass, overpass and causeway in the city dedicated or devoted to public
use.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Saving Time,
whichever is in current use in the city.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety, of the whole or of the part of the building or land, except as
otherwise defined in this code.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual human, partnership, co-
partnership firm, company, limited liability partnership or other partnership
or other such company, joint venture, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity, association or corporation or any other legal entity, or
their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall
include the feminine, the singular shall include the plural where indicated by
the context. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean
the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers
or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real
property, as defined in this section.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property, or a mixture of the two,
if the sense used so indicates.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes land, tenements and hereditaments.
      ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular traffic and that portion of a street used for drainage.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curb or the lateral lane
of the roadway and the adjacent property line, all or a part of which is
intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIDEWALK AREA. The space between the lateral lane of the roadway and the
boundary separating the public right-of-way and the adjacent private property.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Texas.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or", if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME or
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein
provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
         (b)   If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
      (2)   Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done in a
certain length of time before any proceeding or step in a proceeding shall be
had, the day on which the notice is given, or the act is done, shall be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which the proceeding or step in a
proceeding is to be had shall not be counted ,except as otherwise expressly
provided in this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including, but not limited to, the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence
of the municipality's indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for city officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the city;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to city
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing or otherwise relating to rates
to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating or otherwise relating
to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All ordinances mentioned in division (A) above are hereby recognized
as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at
length herein.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to the indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, § 54.001)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, §§ 552.001 et
seq.
§ 10.19 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.20 LIABILITY FOR PENALTY.
   Whenever a corporation or association violates any provision of this code or
other ordinance of the city, the president, vice-president, secretary,
treasurer, manager or any agent or employee of the corporation or association
shall be severally liable for the penalty prescribed for the violation.
§ 10.21 COPIES OF CODE AS EVIDENCE.
   In any prosecution for a violation of any provision of this code, the code
or a copy, certified by the City Administrator, may be admitted in evidence
without further proof and shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and
regular enactment of the provision, without the necessity of introducing in
evidence the entire code.
§ 10.22 BURDEN OF PROVING EXCEPTION.
   In any prosecution for a violation of any provision of this code, upon proof
of the provisions of the code, it shall not be necessary to negate any
exception, excuse, proviso or exemption contained in the code and the burden or
proof of any exception, excuse, proviso or exemption shall be upon the
defendant.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any provision of this
code or any ordinance shall be punished by:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $2,000 in all cases arising under municipal
ordinances that govern fire safety, zoning and public health and sanitation,
including dumping of refuse; and/or
      (2)   A fine not to exceed $500 in all other cases; provided, however,
that, no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the
same or a similar offense under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. In the event that any such violation is
designated as a nuisance under the provisions of this code, the nuisance may be
summarily abated by the City Manager or the Chief of Police or their assigns.
Unless otherwise specifically set forth in this code, or in state law as
adopted, allegations and evidence of culpable mental state are not required for
proof of an offense for which the maximum fine is $500 or less.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal penalties, see Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, § 54.001
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
         
31.   CITY EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
         
32.   CITY DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND THE LIKE
CHAPTER 30: ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
Section
Records Management Program
   
30.001   Definition
   
30.002   Records declared public property
   
30.003   Policy
   
30.004   Records Management Officer
   
30.005   Records control schedules
Municipal Court Technology Fund
   
30.020   Establishment of Municipal Court Technology Fund
   
30.021   Establishment of amount of the fees and assessment and collection
   
30.022   Designated use of the Fund and administration
Claims Against the City
   
30.035   Notification requirements
   
30.036   Suits
   
30.037   Service
   
30.038   Failure to notify
   
30.039   Waiver
National Incident Management System
   
30.050   Adoption
City Fiscal Year
   
30.065   Fiscal year defined
   
30.066   Rendition of property for taxation
Smoking Ban in City Hall
   
30.080   Smoking prohibited
   
30.081   Violations
Disposal of Surplus, Salvage, and Junk Property
   
30.095   Definitions
   
30.096   Applicability
   
30.097   Duties of department heads
   
30.098   Authority of City Administrator
   
30.099   Disposal of property
   
30.100   Competitive bidding
   
30.101   Proceeds of sale or non-sale disposition
   
30.102   Prohibited employee transfers or conversions
Collection Regulations
   
30.115   Collecting delinquent fines, fees, court costs, and other debts
 
   
30.999   Penalty
RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
§ 30.001 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECORDS OF THE CITY OF TRINIDAD. All documents, papers, letters, books,
maps, photographs, sound or video recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape,
electronic media or other information recording media, regardless of physical
form or characteristic and regardless of whether public access to it is open or
restricted under the laws of the state, created or received by the city or any
of its officers or employees pursuant to law or in the transaction of public
business are hereby declared to be the records of the city and shall be
created, maintained and disposed of in accordance herewith or procedures
authorized by it and in no other manner.
(Ord. 2005-002, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 30.002 RECORDS DECLARED PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All records, as defined in §
30.001, are hereby declared to be the property of the city. No official or
employee of the city has, by virtue of his or her position, any personal or
property right to the records even though he or she may have developed or
compiled them. The unauthorized destruction, removal from files or use of the
records is prohibited.
(Ord. 2005-002, passed 3-15-2005) Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.003 POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to provide for efficient,
economical and effective controls over the creation, distribution,
organization, maintenance, use and disposition of all records of this office
through a comprehensive system of integrated procedures for the management of
records from their creation to their ultimate disposition, consistent with the
requirements of the Local Government Records Act, being Tex. Loc. Gov't Code,
§§ 201.001 et seq., and accepted records management practice.
(Ord. 2005-002, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 30.004 RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Secretary will serve as Records Management Officer for the city as
provided by law and will ensure that the maintenance, destruction, electronic
storage or other disposition of the records of this office are carried out in
accordance with the requirements of the Local Government Records Act, being
Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, §§ 201.001 et seq.
(Ord. 2005-002, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 30.005 RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES.
   The City Records Management Officer will submit a Local Government - Records
Control Schedule to the State Library and Archives Commission. Once approved by
the Commission, the Local Government - Records Control Schedule shall be
retained and implemented by the Records Management Officer for use in the city,
as provided by law. Any destruction of records of the city will be in
accordance with the approved Local Government - Records Control Schedule and
the Local Government Records Act.
(Ord. 2005-002, passed 3-15-2005)
MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FUND
§ 30.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Municipal Court Technology
Fund, herein now known as the Fund, pursuant to Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure
Art. 102.0172.
   (B)   The Fund may be maintained in an interest bearing account and may be
maintained in the General Revenue Account.
(Ord. 2002-006, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 30.021 ESTABLISHMENT OF AMOUNT OF THE FEES AND ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The fee shall be in the amount of $4.
      (2)   A security fee in the amount of $3 shall also be assessed.
   (B)   The fees shall be assessed and collected from the defendant upon
conviction for a misdemeanor offense in the Municipal Court as a cost of court.
A defendant is considered convicted if:
      (1)   A sentence is imposed on the person;
      (2)   The person is placed on community supervision, including deferred
adjudication community supervision; or
      (3)   The court defers final disposition of the person's case.
   (C)   The fee shall be collected on conviction for an offense committed on
or after 10-1-2002.
   (D)   The Clerk of the Court shall collect the fees and pay the fee to the
City Treasurer (or other official who discharges or performs the duties of the
Treasurer) of the city, who shall deposit the fees into the Municipal Court
Technology Fund.
(Ord. 2002-006, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 30.022 DESIGNATED USE OF THE FUND AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Fund shall be used only to finance the purchase of technological
enhancements for the Municipal Court of the city, including:
      (1)   Computer systems;
      (2)   Computer networks;
      (3)   Computer hardware;
      (4)   Computer software;
      (5)   Imaging systems;
      (6)   Electronic kiosks;
      (7)   Electronic ticket writers; or
      (8)   Docket management systems.
   (B)   The Fund shall be administered by or under the direction of the City
Council.
(Ord. 2002-006, passed 9-17-2002)
CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY
§ 30.035 NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Before the city shall be liable in any suit, including suits for damages,
injury or destruction to property of any kind or nature or for damages, torts
or injuries to persons of any kind or nature, in the event the injury results
in death or injuries to another, the person or persons who may have a cause of
action under the law, by reason of the death or injury, shall, within 60 days
or for good cause shown within six months from the date the damage or injury
was received, serve written notice upon the Mayor and City Council which
includes all of the following information:
   (A)   The date and time when the injury or damage occurred and the location
of the incident;
   (B)   The nature of the damage or injury sustained;
   (C)   The apparent extent of the damage or injury sustained;
   (D)   A specific and detailed statement of the facts of the incident and
under what circumstances the damage or injury occurred;
   (E)   The amount for which each claimant will settle;
   (F)   The actual place of residence of each claimant by street, number, city
and state on the date the claim is presented and the actual residence of each
claimant for the six months immediately preceding the incident;
   (G)   In the case or personal injury, tort claims or death, the names and
addresses of all persons who, according to the knowledge or information of the
claimant, witnessed the happening of the injury or any part thereof and the
names of the doctors, if any, to whose care the injured person is committed;
and
   (H)   In the case of property damage, the location of the damaged property
at the time the claim was submitted along with the names and addresses of all
persons who witnessed the incident or any part thereof or who have relevant
information.
(Ord. 990810, passed 8-10-1999)
§ 30.036 SUITS.
   No suit of any nature whatsoever shall be instituted or maintained against
the city unless the plaintiff(s) therein shall ever prove that, prior to the
filing of the original petition, the plaintiff(s) complied with the
notification requirements set forth herein and did thereby request from the
City Council the redress, satisfaction, compensation or relief demanded in the
suit, and that the same was by vote of the City Council refused.
(Ord. 990810, passed 8-10-1999)
§ 30.037 SERVICE.
   All notices required herein must be served upon the Mayor and the City
Council by certified mail or by personally serving those persons. All notices
shall be effective only when actually received. The claimant must prove that
service upon the appropriate persons was perfected as herein required.
(Ord. 990810, passed 8-10-1999)
§ 30.038 FAILURE TO NOTIFY.
   Failure to notify the Mayor and City Council within the time and manner
provided herein shall exonerate, excuse and exempt the city from any liability
whatsoever.
(Ord. 990810, passed 8-10-1999)
§ 30.039 WAIVER.
   No person may waive the notification requirements established herein. Actual
knowledge of the incident shall not constitute a waiver of the requirement of a
written notification and service of the notice.
(Ord. 990810, passed 8-10-1999)
NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
§ 30.050 ADOPTION.
   The City Council hereby adopts the National Incident Management System,
dated 3-1-2004.
(Ord. 2007-004, passed 9-18-2007)
CITY FISCAL YEAR
§ 30.065 FISCAL YEAR DEFINED.
   The fiscal year for the city shall begin on October 1 of each year
(including the year 1955) and shall terminate on September 30 of the next
succeeding year.
(Ord. 6, passed 9-6-1955)
§ 30.066 RENDITION OF PROPERTY FOR TAXATION.
   (A)   Each person, partnership and corporation owning property within the
limits of the city shall, between January 1 and April 30 of each year, hand to
the City Assessor and Collector a full and complete sworn inventory of the
property possessed or controlled by him, her or them within the limits of the
city.
   (B)   Taxes shall become due October 1 and become delinquent February 1 of
each year, with a 5% penalty on delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 6, passed 9-6-1955)
SMOKING BAN IN CITY HALL
§ 30.080 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   Lighting, igniting or burning any tobacco product within any portion of the
City Hall is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 2001-002, passed 2-20-2001) Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.081 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall henceforth be illegal for any person to knowingly or intentionally
possess any burning tobacco product within any portion of the City Hall
building located at 212 Park Street, Trinidad, Texas.
(Ord. 2001-002, passed 2-20-2001) Penalty, see §
30.999
DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS, SALVAGE, AND JUNK PROPERTY
§ 30.095 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SALVAGE PROPERTY or JUNK PROPERTY. Personal property, other than items
routinely discarded as waste, that because of use, time, accident, or any other
cause is so worn, damaged, or obsolete that it has no value for the purpose for
which it was originally intended and the cost of seeking competitive bid
exceeds the value of the property or the property has been competitively bid
without successful receipt of a response.
   SURPLUS PROPERTY. Personal property that:
      (1)   Is not salvage property or items routinely discarded as waste;
      (2)   Is not currently needed by the city;
      (3)   Is not required for the city’s foreseeable needs;
      (4)   Possesses some usefulness for the purpose for which it was
intended.
(Ord. 2010-010, passed 10-19-2010)
§ 30.096 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to personal property owned by the city that is
either (a) salvage property or junk property; or (b) surplus property. Both
herein collectively referred to as “excess property”.
(Ord. 2010-010, passed 10-19-2010)
§ 30.097 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   Department heads shall periodically assess and determine the status of
personal property within the possession and control of the department. Personal
property requiring replacement shall be budgeted and scheduled for phasing out.
Department heads shall account for all property in the possession and control
of the department and, at least annually, provide the City Administrator with a
list of personal property which has become excess property. The department
shall maintain all property until proper authorization has been received to
dispose of the excess property. Salvage property with an original value of $10
or less, such as pens, disposable office supplies, and the like, which have
become worn, damaged or fully utilized may be discarded without necessity of
authorization from the City Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-010, passed 10-19-2010)
§ 30.098 AUTHORITY OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Manager shall review and evaluate the appropriateness of declaring
personal property excess property at the recommendation of the department head.
Excess property of one department which is needed in another department or
branch of the city shall be transferred to such department without being deemed
excess property. All other excess property shall be considered for disposal or
conveyance pursuant to the procedures of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-010, passed 10-19-2010)
§ 30.099 DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Authorization herein to dispose of excess property is authorization to
use best efforts to dispose of excess property for the highest price without
costing the city more to dispose of such property.
   (B)   During the budget process, the City Administrator shall identify major
equipment for which a title is held in the name of the city, such as cars,
which will be replaced with new equipment or otherwise liquidated, and shall
include such information in the budget. Items identified for replacement in the
budget shall be authorized to be disposed of as surplus or, if qualifying,
salvage property without further action of the City Council, in a manner set
forth in this subchapter.
   (C)   Salvage or junk property may be utilized as a trade-in on new property
of the same general type without further action by the City Council. Surplus
property may be utilized as a trade-in on new property of the same general type
upon approval of the City Council.
   (D)   Salvage or junk property constituting scrap, for which undertaking to
sell the property under § 30.100 would likely result in no bids or a bid price
that is less than the city’s expenses required for the bid process, may be
destroyed or otherwise disposed of as worthless without further action of the
City Council, or may be offered to a qualifying non-profit or civic
organization upon approval of the City Council.
   (E)   Surplus property shall be offered for competitive bid as set forth in
§ 30.100 without further action of the City Council, or may be offered to a
qualifying non-profit or civic organization upon approval by the City Council
provided the organization services to the city are sufficient to authorize such
transfer.
   (F)   A qualifying non-profit or civic organization receiving excess
property from the city must provide the city with adequate compensation, such
as relieving the city of transportation of disposal expenses related to the
property.
   (G)   Excess property receiving no bids in an auction or competitive bids
may be deemed salvage property and may be disposed of in a manner provided in
this subchapter.
   (H)   Property in the possession of the City Police Department subject to
disposal standards of the code of criminal procedure or other property in any
departments possession for which another statute requires specific procedures
for disposal shall follow the procedures set forth therein.
(Ord. 2010-010, passed 10-19-2010)
§ 30.100 COMPETITIVE BIDDING. 
   Surplus property required to be bid shall be sold either through an approved
auction facility or through competitive bid. Notice of a bid shall include a
description of the surplus property to be sold, and the date and time sealed
bids will no longer be accepted. The highest, qualifying, bidders shall be sold
the surplus property. Notice shall be included in the official newspaper at
least once at least fourteen days before the sale. Notice shall also be posted
on the city’s official website.
(Ord. 2010-010, passed 10-19-2010)
§ 30.101 PROCEEDS OF SALE OR NON-SALE DISPOSITION.
   Any and all proceeds of the sale shall be deposited in the treasury of the
city and accounted for in the financial records of the city. Any excess
property exchanged or traded for value shall be added to the appropriate
inventory of property of the city.
(Ord. 2010-010, passed 10-19-2010)
§ 30.102 PROHIBITED EMPLOYEE TRANSFERS OR CONVERSIONS.
   Employees shall be strictly prohibited from purchasing surplus or salvage
property from the city or benefiting from the sale or transfer of such
property. Persons related in the first degree of affinity or consanguinity to
an employee may not purchase or have property transferred to them, except for
property sold at a competitive bid.
(Ord. 2010-010, passed 10-19-2010)
COLLECTION REGULATIONS
§ 30.115 COLLECTING DELINQUENT FINES, FEES, COURT COSTS, AND OTHER DEBTS.
   (A)   Findings. The foregoing recitals are hereby found to be true and
correct and are hereby adopted by the City of Trinidad and made a part of this
ordinance for all purposes and findings of fact.
   (B)   Collection fee. In accordance with Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure,
Art. 103.0031, there is hereby imposed an additional fee of 30% on all debts
and accounts receivable, i.e.: fines, fees, court costs, restitution, and other
debts that are more than 60 days past due and have been referred to a private
firm (Perdue) for collection.
   (C)   Authorization. The City of Trinidad is hereby authorized to enter into
a contract with the Perdue Firm to provide services for the collection of
fines, fees, court costs, and other debts substantially in the form of the
attached contract which is made a part of this ordinance for all purposes.
   (D)   Open meetings. It is hereby found and determined that the meetings at
which this ordinance is considered are open to the public and that notice of
the time, place and purpose thereof was given in accordance with the provisions
of the Tex. Local Gov’t Code Ch. 551, as amended, and that a quorum of the City
Council was present.
(Ord. 2018-008, passed 7-31-2018)
§ 30.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
30.080 and/or
30.081, or shall fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements
thereof, within the city limits shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall
be liable for a fine not to exceed the amount set forth in §
10.99. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. The
penalty shall be in addition to all the other remedies.
(Ord. 2001-002, passed 2-20-2001)
CHAPTER 31: CITY EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
Council Members
   
31.001   Election and terms
City Administrator
   
31.015   Creation of position and Office of City Administrator
   
31.016   Appointment
   
31.017   Removal from office
   
31.018   Compensation
   
31.019   Authority, duties and responsibilities
   
31.020   Bond
Municipal Court Judge
   
31.035   Appointment
   
31.036   Duties
   
31.037   Term; compensation; surety bond
Health Benefits for City Retirees
   
31.055   Coverage
   
31.056   Definitions
   
31.057   Benefits plan
   
31.058   Contribution
   
31.059   Qualification
Use of City Equipment
   
31.070   Use of city vehicles, motorized equipment, tools and equipment
 
   
31.999   Penalty
COUNCIL MEMBERS
§ 31.001 ELECTION AND TERMS.
   (A)   The three Council members elected on the first Tuesday in April 1955
shall serve a term of one year or until their successors are elected and
qualified. Their successors shall be elected at a general city election on 4-
21-1956, for a term of two years. Thereafter, three Council members shall be
elected on the first Tuesday in April of each odd year.
   (B)   The Mayor and two Council members elected on the first Tuesday in
April 1955 shall serve for two-year terms or until their successors are elected
and qualified. Their successors shall be elected at the general city election
on the first Tuesday in April 1957 and, thereafter, on the first Tuesday in
April of even years.
   (C)   Immediately after the passage and approval of this section, the five
Council members shall decide by lot which three Council members shall hold for
the one-year term and which two Council members shall hold office for the two-
year term.
(Ord. 56-15, passed 4-18-1978)
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.015 CREATION OF POSITION AND OFFICE OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The position and Office of City Administrator is hereby created pursuant to
Tex. Loc. Gov't Code §§ 22.071 et seq. and implied powers of the City Council.
The criteria for appointment, removal, compensation and the authorities, duties
and responsibility of the Office of City Administrator shall be as hereinafter
set forth.
(Ord. 97-, passed 3-11-1997)
§ 31.016 APPOINTMENT.
   The City Administrator shall be appointed by a majority vote of the City
Council for an indefinite term of office. Pursuant to Tex. Loc. Gov't Code §
150.021(b), the City Council may, in its sole discretion, direct and require
the City Administrator to establish residency within the city or, with respect
to a City Administrator residing outside the limits of the city, establish time
limits within which the City Administrator must respond to civil emergencies
within the city.
(Ord. 97-, passed 3-11-1997)
§ 31.017 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The City Administrator shall serve at will of the City Council and may be
removed by a majority vote of the City Council. The City Council may designate
some qualified person to act in the absence or disability of the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 97-, passed 3-11-1997)
§ 31.018 COMPENSATION.
   The City Administrator shall receive compensation as may be established from
to time by the City Council.
(Ord. 97-, passed 3-11-1997)
§ 31.019 AUTHORITY, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of
the city and shall be responsible to the City Council for the proper
administration of all affairs of the city.
   (B)   To that end, the City Administrator shall have the authority, duty and
responsibility as required to:
      (1)   Prepare job descriptions for approval by the City Council, delegate
duties to the officers and employees of the city, fill budgeted positions of
the city, terminate, suspend or discipline any employee, subject to their right
of appeal to the City Council, provided that appointments and termination of
the Chief of Police and City Secretary shall be with the City Council's
concurrence;
      (2)   Ensure that all applicable laws and ordinances are enforced;
      (3)   Attend all meetings of the City Council with the right to
participate in the discussion, but having no vote;
      (4)   To assist the Mayor as Chief Budget Officer of the city, pursuant
to Tex. Loc. Gov't Code § 102.001, in the preparation, review and submission to
the City Council prior to the beginning of each fiscal year of a budget for
proposed expenditures for the ensuing year together with a message describing
the important features of the budget. The City Administrator shall render
assistance as the Mayor may find reasonably necessary in the preparation and
submission of the budget. The City Administrator shall further, as directed by
the City Council, assist the City Council with respect to its consideration of
the budget. The City Administrator shall assure the proper administration of
the budget after its adoption by the City Council;
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the City Council, as of the end of the fiscal
year, a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the
city for the preceding year;
      (6)   Keep the City Council advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the city and provide information and service as may be deemed
reasonably necessary by the Mayor as the Chief Budget Officer of the city. The
City Administrator shall further advise and assist the City Council to assure
the accomplishment of the annual audit pursuant to Tex. Loc. Gov't Code §
103.001;
      (7)   Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies and equipment for
which funds are provided in the budget, purchase budgeted materials and
supplies necessary for operation or maintenance of city services for amounts up
to and including $4,999.99. All expenditures of $5,000 or more shall be
approved by the City Council after competitive bidding procedures of state law.
No purchase shall be made, contract let or obligation incurred for any item or
service which exceeds the current departmental budget appropriation without a
supplemental appropriation approved by the Council. No contract shall be let
except by the City Council. The City Administrator shall advise the City
Council on the advantages or disadvantages of contract and bid proposals. The
City Administrator may issue written rules governing procedures for purchasing
consistent with this section and with applicable state law;
      (8)   In the event of accident, disaster or other circumstance creating a
public emergency, the City Administrator shall provide the Mayor assistance as
may be necessary and may award contracts and make purchases for the purpose of
meeting the emergency; but shall file, within 72 hours, with the City Council a
certificate describing any emergency and showing the necessity for the
emergency purchases, together with an itemized count of all the expenditures;
and
      (9)   The City Administrator shall have such further authority, duties
and responsibilities as may be reasonably implied from the terms hereof and as
heretofore or hereafter provided by the city.
(Ord. 97-, passed 3-11-1997)
§ 31.020 BOND.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall be bonded in an amount determined from
time to time by the City Council, which bond shall be conditioned upon the good
and faithful performance of the authorities and performances of the office and
position of the City Administrator.
   (B)   The premium of the bond shall be paid by the city.
(Ord. 97-, passed 3-11-1997)
MUNICIPAL COURT JUDGE
§ 31.035 APPOINTMENT.
   The Office of Judge of the Municipal Court shall be filled by appointment by
the City Council.
(Ord. 103, passed 11-6-1979)
§ 31.036 DUTIES.
   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall perform the duties as prescribed by
the laws of the state.
(Ord. 103, passed 11-6-1979)
§ 31.037 TERM; COMPENSATION; SURETY BOND.
   (A)   The Judge shall be appointed for a term of office running concurrently
with that of the Mayor.
   (B)   He or she shall receive compensation as the City Council shall fix by
ordinance or resolution and shall furnish a surety bond as may be required by
the City Council, the premium to be paid by the city.
(Ord. 103, passed 11-6-1979)
HEALTH BENEFITS FOR CITY RETIREES
§ 31.055 COVERAGE.
   The city hereby elects to provide health benefits coverage to its retirees
through TML Intergovernmental Employee Benefits Pool under the Pool's
interlocal agreement.
(Ord. 2004-008, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 31.056 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RETIREE. Employee must have worked for the city for ten years or more.
(Ord. 2004-008, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 31.057 BENEFITS PLAN.
   The city hereby adopts the following benefit plans to be provided to its
retirees through the TML Intergovernmental Employee Benefits Pool: the same
medical plan(s) offered to active employees.
(Ord. 2004-008, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 31.058 CONTRIBUTION.
   The interlocal agreement in effect between the city and the TML
Intergovernmental Employee Benefits Pool provides that the Board of Trustees
may adopt rules and regulations. The rules and regulations of the TML
Intergovernmental Employee Benefits Pool allow the participating member entity
to provide retiree medical coverage at the same contribution as charged to
active employees, to select a contribution level which is 160% of the active
employee contribution or to offer over age 65 retirees a Medicare supplement.
The city elects to have the retiree medical contribution for under age 65
retirees be 160% of the active employee for as long as the TML
Intergovernmental Employee Benefits Pool offers this rate structure for retiree
medical coverage. Other coverages will be as established annually by the TML
Intergovernmental Employee Benefits Pool Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2004-008, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 31.059 QUALIFICATION.
   This subchapter will only apply to individuals retiring after its effective
date or to employees, which retired under a previous ordinance. For individuals
retiring after the effective date of this subchapter to qualify, they must
enroll for this coverage within 30 days of their retirement.
(Ord. 2004-008, passed 12-21-2004)
USE OF CITY EQUIPMENT
§ 31.070 USE OF CITY VEHICLES, MOTORIZED EQUIPMENT, TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Employees who are assigned use of a city-owned vehicle including
motorized equipment (COV) are responsible for them and their proper and safe
use. No personal use of any COV is permitted unless authorized by the City
Administrator. No COVs may be used to transport private citizens unless
specifically done so in the course of the employee’s job and with permission of
the City Administrator.
   (B)   Employees who drive COVs must maintain an acceptable driving record
during the term of employment. An employee’s Motor Vehicle Record may be
checked randomly. COV drivers must report any DWI or DUI convictions whether or
not they occurred in a COV. Employees who are convicted of a DWI or DUI in a
COV are subject to immediate dismissal. Repeated or frequent traffic violations
or accidents are grounds for disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.
Accidents in COVs are recorded in the employee’s permanent file.
   (C)   All accidents in COVs must be reported to the City Administrator
immediately.
   (D)   City employees who drive their own vehicles on city business are
required to have current liability insurance in accordance with state law.
   (E)   Personal use prohibited. City property, materials, supplies, tools,
equipment or vehicles may not be removed from the premises or used for personal
business without prior written approval by the City Administrator.
   (F)   Tobacco use prohibited. The use of all tobacco products (including
smokeless) is prohibited while operating and/or being a passenger in city-owned
vehicles and/or equipment.
   (G)   Take home vehicles. A city vehicle may be assigned to a position or
employee. To be eligible for assignment of a take-home vehicle, an employee
must be subject to emergency call back during off-duty hours to locations other
than the employee’s normal work station. No personal use of a take-home vehicle
is permitted except to commute to and from home or work. A city vehicle is not
to be used for personal business such as going to the bank, grocery store, and
the like, without prior written approval of the City Administrator. No
alcoholic beverages are allowed in city vehicles. No passengers may be
transported in take-home vehicles except as required by official duties.
   (H)   Use of city vehicles. City-owned or leased vehicles may be used only
for official city business. City-owned or leased vehicles may only be driven by
authorized city employees. If an employee drives a personal vehicle, or a city-
owned, rented or leased vehicle on the job or while carrying out city-related
business, the employee must comply with the following:
      (1)   Drivers must have a valid State of Texas driver’s license
appropriate for the vehicle operated, must maintain a satisfactory driving
record, and must inform their supervisor of any change in status.
      (2)   Always observe all posted laws and speed limits.
      (3)   Always wear seat belts when the vehicle is in operation.
      (4)   No passengers other than city employees or others on city business
may ride in a city vehicle unless otherwise approved in advance by the
department head.
      (5)   All maintenance and use records for city vehicles must be completed
as directed by the employee’s supervisor.
      (6)   Report any broken, missing, or worn parts, tires, and the like, or
any needed maintenance of city vehicles to the appropriate supervisor
immediately.
      (7)   All drivers must be eligible for coverage under the city’s
insurance policy.
      (8)   Drivers covered by Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations
must comply with them at all times.
      (9)   At no time may an employee under the influence of alcohol or a
presence in the system of illegal drugs drive a city vehicle or a personal
vehicle while conducting city business.
      (10)   Employees involved in an accident while operating a city vehicle,
or while operating a personal vehicle on city business, must immediately notify
the proper law enforcement agency (if applicable) and the appropriate
supervisor and/or department head, and City Administrator. Accident reports,
along with any law enforcement report, must be filed by the employee with the
department head and human resources.
   (I)   The city may, at any time, check the driving record of a city employee
who drives as part of the job duties to determine that the necessary
qualifications are maintained as a city driver. Employees must cooperate in
giving the city whatever authorization is required for this purpose.
   (J)   The above is not a complete and exhaustive list of vehicle use
policies. Violations of any of the specific items listed, as well as the
improper, careless, negligent, destructive, unauthorized, or unsafe use or
operation of a vehicle, may result in loss of driving privilege or disciplinary
action.
(Ord. 2013-010, passed 11-19-2013)
§ 31.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 32: CITY DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND THE LIKE
Section
Public Utility Commission
   
32.001   Jurisdiction of the Commission
   
32.002   Jurisdiction of the city
Municipal Civil Defense and Disaster Relief Committee
   
32.015   Creation
   
32.016   Powers and duties of Committee
   
32.017   Authority of Mayor as Chairperson
   
32.018   Authority, duties and responsibilities of Municipal Defense
Coordinator
   
32.019   Members
   
32.020   Oath
   
32.021   Authority to enter premises
   
32.022   Violations
   
32.023   Conflict with other ordinances, orders, rules or regulations
   
32.024   Liability
   
32.025   Approval of City Council
City Police Department
   
32.040   Creation
   
32.041   Members
   
32.042   Appointment by Mayor
   
32.043   Oath; surety bond
   
32.044   Commission
   
32.045   Recording of appointment
   
32.046   Chief of Police; term of office
   
32.047   Issuance of badge
   
32.048   Chief of Police; supervisory powers
   
32.049   Compensation
   
32.050   Duty of officers
   
32.051   Administrative policies and procedures of the Police Department
   
32.052   Orders of Chief of Police
   
32.053   City Council approval
   
32.054   Employment contracts
   
32.055   Interpretation and construction
   
32.056   Governmental immunity
Racial Profiling Policy for Peace Officers
   
32.070   Approval and adoption
   
32.071   Audio and video equipment
 
   
32.999   Penalty
PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSION
§ 32.001 JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION.
   The city does hereby elect to have the State Public Utility Commission
exercise exclusive original jurisdiction over electric utility rates,
operations and services within the existing and future incorporated limits of
the city.
(Ord. 101, passed 11-6-1979)
§ 32.002 JURISDICTION OF THE CITY.
   The city hereby expressly retains the exclusive original jurisdiction over
the rates, operations and services of water and sewer utilities within the
existing and future incorporated limits of the city.
(Ord. 101, passed 11-6-1979)
MUNICIPAL CIVIL DEFENSE AND DISASTER RELIEF COMMITTEE
§ 32.015 CREATION.
   There is hereby created the Municipal Civil Defense and Disaster Relief
Committee of the city which shall consist of the following:
   (A)   The Mayor who shall serve as Chairperson of the Committee, and who
shall also be known as Municipal Defense Coordinator of the city;
   (B)   The Assistant Defense Coordinator of the city, who shall be charged
with the preparation of a civil defense plan for the city, together with such
duties as the Coordinator shall prescribe. The Assistant Coordinator shall be
appointed by, and hold his or her position at the pleasure of, the Municipal
Defense Coordinator. The Assistant Coordinator shall serve as Vice-Chairperson
of the Municipal Civil Defense and Disaster Relief Committee;
   (C)   The Directors of divisions and chiefs of services of such divisions as
may be provided for by resolution by the City Council or by directives of the
Municipal Defense Coordinator; and
   (D)   Representatives not to exceed in number from civic, business,
industry, labor, veterans, professional or other groups, to be selected and
appointed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 67-6, passed 6-26-1962)
§ 32.016 POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The powers and duties of the Municipal Civil Defense and Disaster
Relief Committee shall include the recommendation for adoption by the City
Council of a civil defense plan for the city and the recommendation for
adoption by the City Council of any and all mutual aid plans and agreements
which are deemed essential for the implementation of the civil defense plan.
   (B)   The duties of the Civil Defense and Disaster Relief Committee shall
also include the making of a survey of the availability of existing personnel,
equipment, supplies and services which could be used during an emergency, as
provide for herein, as well as a continuing study of the need for amendments
and improvements in the civil defense plan adopted by the City Council.
   (C)   The Civil Defense and Disaster Relief Committee shall meet upon the
call of either the Chairperson or the Vice-Chairperson.
(Ord. 67-6, passed 6-26-1962)
§ 32.017 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR AS CHAIRPERSON.
   The Mayor of the city is hereby authorized to join with the County Judge and
the mayors of the other cities in the county in the formation of a civil
defense plan for the county and in the appointment of the Civil Defense
Director for the county, as well as all other powers necessary to participate
in a county-wide program of all civil defense and disaster relief insofar as
the program may affect the city.
(Ord. 67-6, passed 6-26-1962)
§ 32.018 AUTHORITY, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF MUNICIPAL DEFENSE
COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Office of the Municipal Defense Coordinator is hereby created. The
Municipal Defense Coordinator shall have the authority to request the
declaration of the existence of an emergency by the City Council or by higher
authority. In the event it is deemed necessary to declare the existence of an
emergency without delay, the Coordinator may, if the City Council is not in
session, do so, but the action shall be subject to confirmation by the City
Council at its next meeting.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Municipal Defense Coordinator
shall include the following:
      (1)   The control and direction of the actual operation or training
efforts of the civil defense and disaster relief organizations of the city;
      (2)   The determination of all questions of authority and responsibility
that may arise within the civil defense and disaster relief organization of the
city;
      (3)   The maintenance of necessary liaison with other municipal,
district, state, county, regional, federal or other civil defense
organizations;
      (4)   The marshaling, after declaration of an emergency as provided for
above, of all necessary personnel, equipment or supplies from any department of
the city to aid in the carrying out of the civil defense plan;
      (5)   The issuance of all necessary proclamations as to the existence of
an emergency and the immediate operational effectiveness of the civil defense
plan;
      (6)   The issuance of reasonable rules, regulations or directives which
are necessary for the protection of life and property in the city. The rules
and regulations shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk and shall
receive widespread publicity unless publicity will be of an aid and comfort to
the enemy;
      (7)   The supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid
agreements and cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other
local political divisions of the state, and the drafting and execution if
deemed desirable, of an agreement with the county in which the city is located
and with other municipalities within the county, for the county-wide
coordination of efforts in defense and disaster relief;
      (8)   The supervision of and final authorization for the procurement of
all necessary supplies and equipments, including acceptance of private
contributions; and
      (9)   The authorizing of agreements, after approval of the City Attorney,
for the use of private property for air raid shelter and other purposes.
(Ord. 67-6, passed 6-26-1962)
§ 32.019 MEMBERS.
   The operational Civil Defense and Disaster Relief Organization of the city
shall consist of the officers and employees of the city designated by the
Municipal Defense Coordinator as well as all volunteer municipal defense
workers. The functions and duties of the Organization shall be distributed
among the divisions, services and special staff as the City Council shall
prescribe by resolution or the Municipal Defense Coordinator shall provide by
directive. Any such resolution or directive shall set forth the form of
organization, establish and designate divisions and services, assign functions,
duties and powers, and designate officers and employees to carry out the
provisions of the ordinance codified herein. Insofar as possible, the form of
organization, titles and terminology shall conform to the recommendations of
the Defense and Disaster Relief Council of the state and of the federal
government.
(Ord. 67-6, passed 6-26-1962)
§ 32.020 OATH.
   Each person serving as a member of the Municipal Civil Defense and Disaster
Relief Committee, or as an officer, employee or volunteer in any capacity in
the Municipal Civil Defense and Disaster Relief Organization created by
resolution or directive pursuant to the authority herein conferred, shall prior
to assuming their duties, take an oath which shall be substantially as follows:
"I,               , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Texas, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that I will take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well end
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I a member or an
affiliate of any political party or organization, group, or combination of
persons that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States or
of this state by force or violence; and that during such time as I am a member
of the Municipal Civil Defense and Disaster Relief Committee of the City of
Trinidad, I will not advocate nor become a member or an affiliate of any
organization, group, or combination of persons or of any political party that
advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence."
(Ord. 67-6, passed 6-26-1962)
§ 32.021 AUTHORITY TO ENTER PREMISES.
   Any light displayed contrary to any order, rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter constitutes a public nuisance and
when deemed necessary or in order to protect life or property during blackouts
or raids, the police are authorized and directed to enter upon any premises
within the city, using reasonable force and extinguish lights or take other
necessary action to make effective any order, rule or regulation promulgated
under the authority conferred by this subchapter.
(Ord. 67-6, passed 6-26-1962)
§ 32.022 VIOLATIONS.
   Any unauthorized person who shall operate a siren or other device so as to
simulate a blackout signal or air raid, or the termination of a blackout or air
raid, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of the ordinance codified herein
and shall be subject to the penalties imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 67-6, passed 6-26-1962) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.023 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES, ORDERS, RULES OR REGULATIONS.
   (A)   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and
promulgated pursuant to the ordinance codified herein shall be in effect, they
shall supersede all existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar
as the letter may be inconsistent therewith.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not be construed so as to conflict with any
state or federal statute or with any military or naval order, rule or
regulation.
(Ord. 67-6, passed 6-26-1962)
§ 32.024 LIABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter is an exercise by the city of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public peace, health and safety and neither
the city, the agents or representatives of the city, or any individual,
receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association or trustee, or any of the
agents thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to
comply with, any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to
persons or property as the result of the activity.
   (B)   Any persons owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grant to the city a license or privilege,
or otherwise permit the city to inspect or designate and use the whole or any
part or parts of the real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering
persons during an actual, impending or practice enemy attack shall, together
with his or her successors in interest, if any, not be civilly liable for the
death of, or injury to, any person on or about the real estate or premises
under the license, privilege or other permission or for loss of, or damage to
the property of the person.
(Ord. 67-6, passed 6-26-1962)
§ 32.025 APPROVAL OF CITY COUNCIL.
   No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city in
carrying out any civil defense activity authorized by this subchapter without
prior approval by the City Council, nor shall any person have the right to bind
the city by contract, agreement or otherwise without prior and specific
approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 67-6, passed 6-26-1962) Penalty, see §
32.999
CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.040 CREATION.
   There is hereby created and established a Police Department for the city.
(Ord. 79-2, passed 2-6-1979)
§ 32.041 MEMBERS.
   The Police Department shall consist of one Chief of Police and such
additional police officers as the City Council may from time to time deem
necessary and proper.
(Ord. 79-2, passed 2-6-1979)
§ 32.042 APPOINTMENT BY MAYOR.
   The Chief of Police and other members of the Police Department shall be
appointed by the City Council.
(Ord. 79-2, passed 2-6-1979)
§ 32.043 OATH; SURETY BOND.
   The Chief of Police and all members of the Police Department shall take and
subscribe to the official oath prescribed by the Constitution of the state and
shall give surety bond for faithful performance of duties, payable to the city
in the sum of $1,000, premium for which shall be paid by the city.
(Ord. 79-2, passed 2-6-1979)
§ 32.044 COMMISSION.
   After taking and subscribing to the oath of office and giving bond as
provided in §
32.043, a commission shall be issued to the appointee in the following form:
 
CITY OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS
COMMISSION
I,                                                        , Mayor of the City of Trinidad, Texas, reposing confidence in the ability,
integrity, fidelity, and loyalty of                            , do hereby, upon authority of the City Council of Trinidad appoint the said
                                                                 in and for the City of Trinidad.
Done at                                                 , Texas, this           day of                                 , 20              
                                                                
MAYOR OF TRINIDAD, TEXAS
 
(Ord. 79-2, passed 2-6-1979)
§ 32.045 RECORDING OF APPOINTMENT.
   The appointment of a Chief of Police or of any police officer shall be made
and entered in the minutes of the City Council at any regular or special
meeting of the Council, and the commission issued to the Chief of Police or
police officer shall become effective after the same has been signed by the
Mayor, and the appointment has been entered in the minutes.
(Ord. 79-2, passed 2-6-1979)
§ 32.046 CHIEF OF POLICE; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Police Department shall be headed by a Chief of Police who shall be
appointed and commissioned by the City Council. The Police Department shall
have such personnel as may be authorized in the annual budget of the City. The
Chief of Police shall be a certified peace officer in the State of Texas and
shall satisfy the minimum requirements established by the laws and regulations
of the State of Texas for such position. The Chief of Police shall further
satisfy and maintain the training and qualifications established, from time to
time, by the City Council.
§ 32.047 ISSUANCE OF BADGE.
   A metallic badge, identifying the Police Chief and each police officer as a
member of the Police Department, shall be issued to each member of the Police
Department.
(Ord. 79-2, passed 2-6-1979)
§ 32.048 CHIEF OF POLICE; SUPERVISORY POWERS.
   The Chief of Police shall be the chief police officer of the city and, as
such, shall have supervision over the other members of the Police Department.
(Ord. 79-2, passed 2-6-1979)
§ 32.049 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Police Department shall receive such compensation as the
City Council may from time to time determine.
(Ord. 79-2, passed 2-6-1979)
§ 32.050 DUTY OF OFFICERS.
   It is the duty of every member of the Police Department to preserve the
peace within the limits of the city and to effect this purpose the officer may
use all lawful means. He or she may interfere without warrant to suppress or
prevent crime.
(Ord. 79-2, passed 2-6-1979)
§ 32.051 ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The city shall adopt and, from time to time as necessary and advisable,
amend, modify, review and revise comprehensive general policies and procedures
that shall be applicable to the administration, operation, organization and
professional development of the officers and employees of the Police Department
of the city. The City Administrator and the Chief of Police shall cause the
policies and procedures, and any proposed modifications or amendments, to be
drafted, prepared and recommended to the City Council for review and action as
necessary to serve the best interests of the city and its Police Department
employees and citizens.
(Ord. 2008-002, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 32.052 ORDERS OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
    The Chief of Police is responsible for the day to day operation of the
Police Department and must operate and manage the Police Department in a manner
consistent with the policies and procedures of the city, the laws of the state
and federal government, the Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure and the public
safety needs of the citizens. The Chief may, from time to time, issue orders or
specific policy statements for the Police Department that are consistent with
the approved policies and procedures of the city and applicable state and
federal law as needed to guide officers and Departmental policies not
specifically addressed in the personnel policies of the city or that vary the
policies as needed to create policies that will comply with changes in the law.
(Ord. 2008-002, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 32.053 CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
    The general policies and procedures of the Police Department, and all
revisions, modifications and amendments thereto, shall be approved by the City
Council, in its discretion, and no policies, procedures, revisions,
modifications or amendments shall be in effect except as approved by the City
Council. The policies, procedures, rules and regulations as are approved by the
City Council shall be and remain in effect until thereafter repealed, modified
or amended, and all, or any part of the policies, procedures, rules,
regulations, revisions, modifications and amendments may be repealed, deleted,
modified or amended, at any time by the City Council, acting in its discretion.
(Ord. 2008-002, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 32.054 EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS.
   The general policies and procedures, rules and regulations of the Police
Department shall never be construed or interpreted to create or result in any
contract for employment, or to create, establish or result in any officer or
employee of the city having or obtaining a property interest in any job,
position, employment or future benefit with the city. The city is an at-will
employer and it is the policy of the city that all officers and employees of
the city shall be employees at-will. Save and except for a written contract
executed by and between the city and an individual officer or employee, if any,
which written contract is approved by majority vote of the City Council, acting
at a duly noticed public meeting, with the advice and counsel of the City
Attorney, no officer or employee of the city shall have and obtain, by
implication or otherwise, any employment contract with the city.
(Ord. 2008-002, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 32.055 INTERPRETATION AND CONSTRUCTION.
   The general policies and procedures, rules and regulations of Police
Department, as approved time to time, shall be interpreted and construed
consistent herewith, the personnel policies applicable to all city employees,
and in a manner consistent with the city being and remaining an at-will
employer. The general policies and procedures of the Police Department shall
not be interpreted or construed as creating third-party rights and it is not
the intention of the city to create third-party rights through the general
policies and procedures. The general policies and procedures, rules and
regulations of the Police Department shall be interpreted as a general
guideline to be used by the Police Department to promote professionalism and
organizational development and shall not be interpreted to be a complete
procedural guide or to limit an officer's discretion. Nothing in the general
manual, or its amendments, shall be interpreted or construed as an obligation,
mandate, requirement or agreement of the city or the Police Department to
function or operate in the manner or methods described therein.
(Ord. 2008-002, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 32.056 GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to waive, modify or amend any
legal defense available at law or in equity to either the city, the Police
Department or its employees nor to create any legal rights or claims on behalf
of any third party. Neither the city, the Police Department, nor its employees,
waives, modifies or alters to any extent whatsoever the availability of the
defense of governmental immunity under the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2008-002, passed 4-15-2008)
RACIAL PROFILING POLICY FOR PEACE OFFICERS
§ 32.070 APPROVAL AND ADOPTION.
   (A)   The City Racial Profiling Policy, attached to the ordinance codified
herein as Exhibit "A", is hereby approved and adopted and available for
inspection at the office of the City Secretary.
   (B)   The Racial Profiling Policy shall be and remain in full force and
effect, until the time as repealed, modified or amended by resolution or
ordinance of the City Council.
   (C)   Where the policy conflicts with the Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure or
a specific department policy, the more restrictive shall govern.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.071 AUDIO AND VIDEO EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall, immediately upon enactment of this policy,
commence examination of the feasibility of installing video camera equipment
and transmitter-activated equipment in any city motor vehicle now owned or
acquired after passage of this policy, regularly used to make traffic stops,
and transmitter-activated equipment in each city motorcycle now owned or
acquired after the passage of this policy, regularly used to make traffic stops
and shall report to the City Council any such vehicles which are not equipped
with adequate equipment. The report shall include funding options available to
the city, including any funding available through the Department of Public
Safety.
   (B)   In the event that the findings of the examination support the
installation of additional equipment in any motor vehicle required to be
equipped but not already equipped, the Chief of Police is authorized and
directed to apply for funding to secure the additional equipment and if funds
are available, shall take actions as necessary to ensure installation of the
additional equipment as expeditiously as feasible. The Chief of Police is
authorized and directed to certify to the Department of Public Safety any need
for additional equipment for which funds are not available. On receipt of
either sufficient funds or video and audio equipment, the Chief of Police shall
direct such actions as necessary to expeditiously install and begin the
operation of video and transmitter-activated equipment in each motor vehicle
regularly used to make traffic stops, and shall direct such actions as
necessary to expeditiously install and begin the operation of transmitter-
activated equipment on each motorcycle regularly used to make traffic stops.
The Chief of Police is authorized and directed to certify to the Department of
Public Safety that the equipment has been installed and is being used to record
each traffic and pedestrian stop made by a peace officer employed by the city
that is capable of being recorded by video and audio or audio equipment, as
appropriate.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully to obstruct, hinder or
delay any member of the Civil Defense Organization in the enforcement of any
rule or regulation issued pursuant to §§
32.015 through
32.025, or to do any act forbidden by any rule or regulation issued pursuant to
the authority contained in §§
32.015 through
32.025. It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or display
any emblem, insignia or any other means of identification as a member of the
Civil Defense Organization or the city, unless authority so to do has been
granted to the person by the proper officials. Convictions for the violation of
§§
32.015 through
32.025 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed the amount set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 67-6, passed 6-26-1962)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   PUBLIC UTILITIES GENERALLY
         
51.   SEWERS AND SANITATION
         
52.   WATER; WASTEWATER; SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
         
53.   NATURAL GAS
         
54.   DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
CHAPTER 50: PUBLIC UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
Procedure for Enacting New or Changing Existing Rates and Regulations
   
50.01   Definition
   
50.02   Notice of new or changed rates or regulations
   
50.03   Publication of notice; hearing
   
50.04   Authority of City Council
   
50.05   Public hearing
   
50.06   Report of hearing
   
50.07   Testimony at hearing
   
50.08   Notice to consumers
 
   
50.99   Penalty
PROCEDURE FOR ENACTING NEW OR CHANGING EXISTING RATES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Shall include and be limited to: Persons, firms or
corporations furnishing or distributing gas within the corporate limits of the
city.
(Ord. 56-11, passed 2-22-1956)
§ 50.02 NOTICE OF NEW OR CHANGED RATES OR REGULATIONS.
   Should any public utility desire to put into effect, within the corporate
limits of the city, a new rate schedule or new service regulation, or to change
any existing rate schedule or service regulation, or to withdraw any rate
schedule, it shall file with the City Secretary the new or changed rate
schedules or regulations, or notice of withdrawal of any existing rate schedule
or service regulations, not less than 90 days prior to the time it desires to
make the same effective, unless the City Council, upon application of the
public utility, prescribes a less time within which the same may be made
effective.
(Ord. 56-11, passed 2-22-1956)
§ 50.03 PUBLICATION OF NOTICE; HEARING.
   (A)   Immediately following the filing of the proposed new rate schedule or
service regulation, or proposed change of any existing rate schedule service
regulation, or proposed withdrawal of any rate schedule by the public utility,
the City Secretary shall cause notice of the fact of the filing to be published
in a newspaper, of general circulation, located nearest to the city.
   (B)   At the next regular meeting of the City Council following the filing
of the proposed new rate schedule or service regulations, proposed change of
any existing rate schedule or service regulation or proposed withdrawal of any
rate schedule by the public utility, the City Secretary shall bring to the
attention of the City Council the fact of the filing; and the City Council
shall forthwith set a date for a hearing, either public or non-public, on the
proposal. The City Council may, at its discretion or at its option, thereupon
set a date for public hearing; provided, however, upon the written petition of
ten customers of the public utility, located within the corporate limits of the
city, it shall be mandatory for the City Council to set a date for public
hearing. At any hearing, whether public or otherwise, the public utility shall
be required to present evidence to show cause why the new rate schedule or new
septic regulation, should be put into effect, or to show cause why any rate
schedule should be withdrawn; and at any hearing, the legal counsel
representing the city may appear and present evidence to show cause why the new
rate schedule or new service regulation, or change in any existing rate
schedule or service regulation, should or should not be put into effect; or to
show cause why any rate schedule should or should not be withdrawn.
   (C)   At any public hearing, any interested citizen or citizens of the city
may appear, either in person or by attorney, and present evidence to show cause
why the new rate schedule or new service regulation, or change in any existing
rate schedule or service regulation, should or should not be put into effect;
or to show cause why any rate schedule should or should not be withdrawn.
   (D)   Any hearing, whether public or otherwise, shall be set not less than
30 days, nor more than 40 days, from the date of the regular meeting of the
City Council. Notice of the hearing shall be given to the public utility by the
City Secretary, who shall send, by United States mail, a registered letter,
containing the notice of hearing, to the manager of the local office of public
utility or, if the public utility has no local office, to the general offices
or headquarters of the public utility. The City Secretary shall cause to be
published notice of any public hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation,
located nearest to the city, at least ten days prior to the date of the
hearing.
(Ord. 56-11, passed 2-22-1956)
§ 50.04 AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL.
   At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council may either approve,
disapprove or modify the new rate schedule or new service regulation, or change
in any existing rate schedule or service regulation, or the withdrawal of any
existing rate schedule or service regulation.
(Ord. 56-11, passed 2-22-1956)
§ 50.05 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Should the City Council desire to put into effect within the city a new rate
schedule or new service regulation, or to change any existing rate schedule or
service regulation, it shall file with the City Secretary the proposed new or
changed rate schedules or regulations, not less than 90 days prior to the time
it desires to make the same effective. At any time within the next 30 days, the
public utility may make application to the City Council for a public hearing.
At the hearing, both the public utility and the legal counsel representing the
city shall be entitled to present evidence to show cause why the new rate
schedule or new service regulation, or change in any existing rate schedule
service regulation, should or should not be put into effect. At the hearing
also, any interested citizen or citizens of the city may appear, either in
person or by attorney, and present evidence to show cause why the new rate
schedule or new service regulation, or change in the existing rate schedule or
service regulation, should or should not be put into effect. The hearing shall
be granted to the public utility as a matter of right; and it shall be set not
less than 30 days, nor more than 45 days, from the date of the filing of the
proposed new rate schedule or new service regulation, or change in any existing
rate schedule or service regulation by the City Secretary. Notice of the
proposed new rate schedule or new service regulation, or change in any existing
rate schedule or service regulation shall be given to the public utility by the
City Secretary, who shall send, by United States mail, a registered letter,
containing a notice of the proposed changes, to the manager of the local office
of the public utility or, if the public utility has no local office, to the
general offices or headquarters of the public utility. The City Secretary shall
cause to be published, for one time, in a newspaper of general circulation,
located nearest to the city, a notice of the hearing, after the same has been
set by the City Council, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council may either approve,
disapprove or modify the new rate schedule or new service regulation or change
in any existing rate schedule or service regulation.
(Ord. 56-11, passed 2-22-1956)
§ 50.06 REPORT OF HEARING.
   The official reporter of the judicial district within which the county is
included, or any other reporter of equal qualifications (to be selected by the
Mayor), shall be present at any hearing provided for in this subchapter and
shall take down and preserve all proceedings in shorthand (or equally
efficacious method). The cost of reporting the hearing shall be borne equally
by the city and the public utility.
(Ord. 56-11, passed 2-22-1956)
§ 50.07 TESTIMONY AT HEARING.
   All testimony at the hearings shall be under oath, to be administered by the
Mayor or, in his or her absence, by the Mayor Pro Tem or other presiding
officer.
(Ord. 56-11, passed 2-22-1956)
§ 50.08 NOTICE TO CONSUMERS.
   The filing of the rate schedules and service regulations, if followed by the
approval of the City Council, in the manner herein provided, shall constitute
notice to the consumers within the city of the availability and application of
the rate schedules and service regulations.
(Ord. 56-11, passed 2-22-1956)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any public utility violating the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.08 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $200. Each day that the
violation or violations continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 56-11, passed 2-22-1956)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Privy vaults
   
51.02   Illegal dumping
Discharge of Wastes
   
51.20   Definitions
   
51.21   Prohibited discharges
   
51.22   Chemical discharges
   
51.23   Hazardous metals and toxic materials
   
51.24   Particulate size
   
51.25   Storm water and other unpolluted drainage
   
51.26   Temperature
   
51.27   Radioactive wastes
   
51.28   Impairment of facilities
   
51.29   Compliance with existing authority
   
51.30   Requirements for building sewers
   
51.31   Sampling and testing
   
51.32   User charge system
   
51.33   Power to enter property
   
51.34   Authority to disconnect service
   
51.35   Notice
   
51.36   Continuing prohibited discharges
   
51.37   Failure to pay
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PRIVY VAULTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any property in the city
to keep and maintain any privy vault.
(Ord. 70-1, passed 7-7-1970) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 ILLEGAL DUMPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit another to
place any garbage, trash or debris in any refuse container, other than a
receptacle provided for city-wide refuse collection service, unless the refuse
is from the premises served by the container or with the consent of the owner
of the container. Refuse from outside the city limits shall not be placed in
the city service containers.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than an authorized employee
of the city or a refuse collection service to remove or pilfer through any
garbage, trash or debris in refuse receptacles.
(Ord. passed 6-11-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
DISCHARGE OF WASTES
§ 51.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Mayor or his or her duly authorized representative.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen by weight,
expressed in mg/l, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory conditions for five days at a temperature of 20°C.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal (also called the HOUSE LATERAL and HOUSE CONNECTION).
   CITY. The City of Trinidad, Texas, or any authorized person acting in its
behalf.
   C.O.D. (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The measure of the oxygen consuming
capacity of inorganic and organic matter present in the water and wastewater
expressed in mg/l as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a
specific test, but not differentiating between stable and unstable organic
matter and thus not necessarily correlating with biochemical oxygen demand.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A manhole giving access to a building sewer at some point
before the building sewer discharge mixes with other discharges in the public
sewer.
   CONTROL POINT. Point of access to a course of discharge before the discharge
mixes with other discharges in the public sewer.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable wastes and residue from preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food; and from the handling, processing, storage and sale of
food products and produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waste resulting from any process of industry,
manufacturing, trade or business from the development of any natural resource,
or any mixture of the waste with water or normal wastewater or distinct from
normal wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGE. The charge made on those persons who discharge
industrial wastes into the city's sewerage system.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l). The same as parts per million and is a weight-
to-volume ratio; the milligram per liter value multiplied by the factor 8.34
shall be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
   NATURAL OUTLET. An outlet into a watercourse, ditch, lake or other body of
surface water or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater excluding industrial wastewater
discharge by a person into sanitary sewers and in which the average
concentration of total suspended solids is not more than 250 mg/l and B.O.D. is
not more than 200 mg/l.
   OVERLOAD. The imposition of organic or hydraulic loading on a treatment
facility in excess of its engineered design capacity.
   PERSON. Any individual and includes any corporation, organization,
government or governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership association or other legal entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base ten) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Pipe or conduit carrying wastewater or unpolluted drainage in
which owners of abutting properties shall have the use, subject to control by
the city.
   SANITARY SEWER. A public sewer that conveys domestic wastewater or
industrial wastes or a combination of both, and into which storm water, surface
water, ground water and other unpolluted wastes are not intentionally passed.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
latest edition, at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater as prepared, approved and published jointly
by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association
and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A public sewer which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage and into which domestic wastewater or industrial wastes are not
intentionally passed.
   STORM WATER. Rainfall or any other forms of precipitation.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Water and Wastewater Superintendent of the city or his
or her duly authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids measured in mg/l that either float on the
surface of, or are in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and
which are largely, removable by a laboratory filtration device.
   TO DISCHARGE. Includes to deposit, conduct, drain, emit, throw, run, allow
to seep or otherwise release or dispose of, or to allow, permit or suffer any
of these acts or omissions.
   TRAP. A device designed to skim, settle or otherwise remove grease, oil,
sand, flammable wastes or other harmful substances.
   UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER. Water containing:
      (1)   No free or emulsified grease or oil;
      (2)   No acids or alkalis;
      (3)   No phenols or other substances producing taste or odor in receiving
water;
      (4)   No toxic or poisonous substances in suspension, colloidal state or
solution;
      (5)   No noxious or otherwise obnoxious or odorous gases;
      (6)   Not more than an insignificant amount in mg/l each of suspended
solids and B.O.D., as determined by the State Department of Water Resources;
and
      (7)   Color not exceeding 50 units as measured by the platinum-cobalt
method of determination as specified in Standard Methods.
   WASTES. Rejected, unutilized or substances in liquid, gaseous or solid form
resulting from domestic, agricultural or industrial activities.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of the water-carried waste from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with
any ground, surface and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. Includes all facilities for collection, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater and industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge on all users of the public sewer
system whose wastes do not exceed in strength the concentration values
established as representative of normal wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any city-owned facilities, devices and
structures used for receiving, processing and treating wastewater, industrial
waste and sludges from the sanitary sewers.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or human-made channel in which a flow of water
occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.21 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person may discharge to public sewers any wastes which, by itself
or by interaction with other wastes, may:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      (3)   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   (B)   All discharges shall conform to requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 CHEMICAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No discharge to public sewers may contain:
      (1)   Cyanide greater than one mg/l;
      (2)   Fluoride other than that contained in the public water supply;
      (3)   Chlorides in concentrations greater than 250 mg/l;
      (4)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas; or
      (5)   Substances causing an excessive chemical oxygen demand (C.O.D.).
   (B)   No waste or wastewater discharge to public waters may contain:
      (1)   Strong acid, iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating solutions
whether neutralized or not;
      (2)   Fats, wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of
100 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperature between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and 65°C);
      (3)   Objectionable or toxic substances, exerting an excessive chlorine
requirement, to a degree that any such material received in the composite
wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits established by the approving
authority for the materials; or
      (4)   Obnoxious, toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
quantities sufficient to violate the provisions of §
51.21(A).
   (C)   No waste, wastewater or other substance may be discharged into public
sewer which has a pH lower than five and one-half or higher than nine and one-
half, or any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and/or personnel at the wastewater facilities.
   (D)   All waste, wastewater or other substance containing phenols, hydrogen
sulfide or other taste- and odor-producing substances, shall conform to
concentration limits established by the approving authority. After treatment of
the composite wastewater, concentration limits may not exceed the requirements
established by state, federal or other agencies with jurisdiction over
discharges to receiving waters.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 HAZARDOUS METALS AND TOXIC MATERIALS.
   (A)   No discharges may contain concentrations of hazardous metals other
than amounts specified in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The allowable concentrations of hazardous metals in terms of
milligrams per liter (mg/l), for discharge to inland waters, and determined on
the basis of individual sampling in accordance with Standard Methods are:
 Metal Not To Exceed
       Daily Average Daily Composite Grab Sample
     Metal     Not To Exceed
               Daily Average Daily Composite Grab Sample
(1)  Arsenic   0.1           0.2             0.3
(2)  Barium    1.0           2.0             4.0
(3)  Cadmium   0.05          0.1             0.2
(4)  Chromium  0.5           1.0             5.0
(5)  Copper    0.5           1.0             2.0
(6)  Lead      0.5           1.0             1.5
(7)  Manganese 1.0           2.0             3.0
(8)  Mercury   0.005         0.005           0.01
(9)  Nickel    1.0           2.0             3.0
(10) Selenium  0.05          0.1             0.2
(11) Silver    0.05          0.1             0.2
(12) Zinc      1.0           2.0             6.0
(NOTE: These concentrations parameters and rules governing same are
promulgated under, and in accordance with Title 30, Town Administration
Code, Chapter 319, Subchapter B).
 
   (C)   No other hazardous metals or toxic materials may be discharged into
public sewers without a permit from the approving authority specifying
conditions of pretreatment, concentrations, volumes and other applicable
provisions.
   (D)   Prohibited hazardous materials include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Antimony;
      (2)   Beryllium;
      (3)   Bismuth;
      (4)   Cobalt;
      (5)   Molybdenum;
      (6)   Uranyl ion;
      (7)   Rhenium;
      (8)   Strontium;
      (9)   Tellerium;
      (10)   Herbicides;
      (11)   Fungicides; and
      (12)   Pesticides.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24 PARTICULATE SIZE.
   (A)   No person may discharge garbage or other solids into public sewers
unless it is shredded to a degree that all particles can be carried freely
under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers. Particles
greater than one-half inch in any dimensions are prohibited.
   (B)   The approving authority is entitled to review and approve the
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.25 STORM WATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person may:
      (1)   Discharge to public sanitary sewers:
         (a)   Unpolluted storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff
or subsurface drainage;
         (b)   Unpolluted cooling water;
         (c)   Unpolluted industrial process waters; or
         (d)   Other unpolluted drainage.
      (2)   Make any new connections from inflow sources.
   (B)   In compliance with the State Water Quality Act and statutes, the
approving authority may designate storm sewers and other watercourses into
which unpolluted drainage described in division (A) of this section may be
discharged.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 TEMPERATURE.
   No person may discharge liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150°F (65°C), or any substance which causes the temperature of the total
wastewater treatment plant influent to increase at a rate of 10°F or more per
hour, or a combined total increase of plant influent to 110°F.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.27 RADIOACTIVE WASTES.
   (A)   No person may discharge radioactive wastes or isotopes into public
sewers without the permission of the approving authority.
   (B)   The approving authority may establish, in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations, regulations for discharge of radioactive wastes
into public sewers.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.28 IMPAIRMENT OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance capable of
causing:
      (1)   Obstruction to the flow in sewers;
      (2)   Interference with the operation of treatment processes of
facilities; or
      (3)   Excessive loading of treatment facilities.
   (B)   Discharges prohibited by division (A) above include, but are not
limited to, materials which exert or cause concentrations of:
      (1)   Inert suspended solids greater than 250 mg/l including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Fuller's earth;
         (b)   Lime slurries; and
         (c)   Lime residues.
      (2)   Dissolved solids greater than 600 mg/l including, but not limited
to:
         (a)   Sodium chloride; and
         (b)   Sodium sulfate.
      (3)   Excessive discoloration including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Dye wastes; and
         (b)   Vegetable tanning solutions.
      (4)   B.O.D., C.O.D. or chlorine demand in excess of normal plant
capacity.
   (C)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance that may:
      (1)   Deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner as to
clog the sewers;
      (2)   Overload skimming and grease handling equipment;
      (3)   Pass to the receiving waters without being effectively treated by
normal wastewater treatment processes due to the nonamenability of the
substance to bacterial action; or
      (4)   Deleteriously affect the treatment process due to excessive
quantities.
   (D)   No person may discharge any substance into public sewers which:
      (1)   Is not amenable to treatment or reduction by the processes and
facilities employed; or
      (2)   Is amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   The approving authority shall regulate the flow and concentration of
slugs when they may:
      (1)   Impair the treatment process;
      (2)   Cause damage to collection facilities;
      (3)   Incur treatment costs exceeding those for normal wastewater; or
      (4)   Render the effluent unfit for stream disposal or industrial use.
   (F)   No person may discharge into public sewers solid or viscous substances
which may violate division (A) of this section if present in sufficient
quantity or size including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Ashes;
      (2)   Cinders;
      (3)   Sand;
      (4)   Mud;
      (5)   Straw;
      (6)   Shavings;
      (7)   Metal;
      (8)   Glass;
      (9)   Rags;
      (10)   Feathers;
      (11)   Tar;
      (12)   Plastics;
      (13)   Wood;
      (14)   Unground garbage;
      (15)   Whole blood;
      (16)   Paunch manure;
      (17)   Hair and fleshings;
      (18)   Entrails;
      (19)   Paper products, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (20)   Slops;
      (21)   Chemical residues;
      (22)   Paint residues; or
      (23)   Bulk solids.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.29 COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Unless exception is granted by the approving authority, the public
sanitary sewer system shall be used by all persons discharging:
      (1)   Wastewater;
      (2)   Industrial wastes; and/or
      (3)   Polluted liquids;
   (B)   Unless authorized by the State Department of Water Resources, no
person may deposit or discharge any waste included in division (A) of this
section on public or private property or into or adjacent to any:
      (1)   Natural outlet;
      (2)   Watercourse;
      (3)   Storm sewer; or
      (4)   Other area within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (C)   (1)   Discharges requiring a trap include:
         (a)   Grease or waste containing grease in amounts that will impede or
stop the flow in the public sewers;
         (b)   Oil;
         (c)   Sand;
         (d)   Flammable wastes; and
         (e)   Other harmful ingredients.
      (2)   Any person responsible for discharges requiring a trap shall, at
his or her own expense and as required by the approving authority:
         (a)   Provide equipment and facilities of a type and capacity approved
by the approving authority;
         (b)   Locate the trap in a manner that provides ready and easy
accessibility for cleaning and inspection; and
         (c)   Maintain the trap in effective operating condition.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.30 REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING SEWERS.
   Any person responsible for discharges through a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall, at his or her own expense and as required by the
approving authority:
   (A)   Install an accessible control manhole;
   (B)   Install meters and other appurtenances to facilitate observation
sampling and measurement of the wastes;
   (C)   Install safety equipment and facilities (ventilation, steps and the
like) where needed; and
   (D)   Maintain the equipment and facilities.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.31 SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   (A)   Sampling shall be conducted according to customarily accepted methods,
reflecting the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and determining the
existence of hazards to health, life, limb and property. (NOTE: The particular
analysis involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite sample from all
outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should
be taken. Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analysis are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls. Where applicable, 16-hour,
eight-hour or some other period may be required. Periodic grab samples are used
to determine pH and oil and grease.)
   (B)   Examination and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes
required by this subchapter shall be:
      (1)   Conducted in accordance with the latest edition of Standard
Methods; and
      (2)   Determined from suitable samples taken at the control manhole
provided or other control point authorized by the approving authority.
   (C)   B.O.D. and suspended solids shall be determined from composite
sampling, except to detect unauthorized discharges.
   (D)   The approving authority shall determine which users or classes of
users may contribute wastewater which is of greater strength than normal
domestic wastewater. All users or classes of users so identified shall be
sampled for flow B.O.D., TSS and pH at least annually.
   (E)   The city may select an independent firm or laboratory to determine
flow, B.O.D. and suspended solids, if necessary. Flow may alternately be
determined by water meter measurements if no other flow device is available and
no other source of raw water is used.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.32 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Persons making discharges of industrial waste into the city system
shall pay a charge to cover all costs of collection and treatment.
   (B)   When discharges of any waste into the city system are approved by the
approving authority, the city or its authorized representative shall enter into
an agreement or arrangement providing:
      (1)   Terms of acceptance by the city;
      (2)   Payment by the person making the discharge, in accordance with the
user charge system as established in division (E) of this section;
      (3)   Sewer connection procedures and requirements shall be in accordance
with the Uniform Plumbing Code as promulgated by the International Association
of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials;
      (4)   A sewer application approved with connection fee paid;
      (5)   Construction of sewer connections shall be approved by city
inspectors prior to sewer use; and
      (6)   Reference §§
51.01 and
51.02 of this code.
   (C)   Each user of the wastewater treatment system will be notified, at
least annually, in conjunction with a regular sewer bill, of the rate and that
portion of user charges or ad valorem taxes which are attributable to the
operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment system.
   (D)   The city will apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to
the cost of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next
year and adjust the rates accordingly.
   (E)   (1)   The user charge system shall provide for the equitable
distribution of debt service, reserve and operation and maintenance costs of
the sanitary sewerage system to each user or user class. The minimum base fixes
rate per domestic user per month for readiness to serve and disposal of up to
2,000 gallons of normal domestic wastewater measured as potable water taken
from city water works shall be calculated from the sum of annual debt service;
an annual reserve in the amount of 10% of annual debt service, until an amount
equal to one annual debt service payment is accumulated; and 70% of annual
operations and maintenance, less interest and depreciation; divided by the
current number of users and then divided by 12 months.
      (2)   The over minimum base rate per 1,000 gallons for wastewater
disposal measured as potable water, up to 10,000 gallons taken from city
waterworks user per month shall be calculated from 30% of annual operation and
maintenance costs, less interest and depreciation, divided by the average
number of thousands of gallons of water used, above 2,000 gallons, per user per
month during the months of December, January and February, and then divide by
12 months.
      (3)   The calculated minimum and over minimum charges may be rounded, up
or down, to some convenient amounts, as determined by the City Council.
      (4)   Over minimum base rate per 1,000 gallons shall be limited to 9,000
gallons for domestic users only.
      (5)   An industrial waste charge shall be made on persons discharging
industrial wastes into the city sewerage system. The charges for the several
constituents shall be additive, applied to both the minimum base fixed rate and
the over minimum base rate per 1,000 gallons, and calculated with the base by
the sum of the following applicable factors plus one, and multiplied by the
appropriate base rate:
         (a)   For B.O.D. in excess of 250 mg/l, B.O.D. of discharge minus 250,
divided by 250; and
         (b)   For C.O.D. in excess of 250 mg/l, B.O.D. of discharge minus 250,
divided by 250.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.33 POWER TO ENTER PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification are entitled to enter any public
or private property at any reasonable time for the purpose of enforcing this
subchapter.
   (B)   Anyone acting under this authority shall observe the establishment's
rules and regulations concerning safety, internal security and fire protection.
   (C)   Except when caused by negligence or failure of person(s) to maintain
safe conditions, the city shall indemnify the person(s) against loss or damage
to their property by city employees and against liability claims and demands
for personal injury or property damage asserted against the person(s) and
growing out of the sampling operation.
   (D)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification are entitled to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a negotiated easement for the purpose
of:
      (1)   Inspection, observation, measurement, sampling or repair;
      (2)   Maintenance of any portion of the sewerage system lying within the
easements; and
      (3)   Conducting any other authorized activity. All activities shall be
conducted in full accordance with the terms of the negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   (E)   No person acting under authority of this provision may inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the public sewers.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.34 AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   (A)   The city may terminate water and wastewater disposal service and
disconnect a customer from the system when:
      (1)   Acids or chemicals which may damage the sewer lines or treatment
process are released to the sewer potentially causing accelerated deterioration
of these structures or interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of
wastewater;
      (2)   A governmental agency informs the city that the effluent from the
wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge to
a watercourse, and it is found that the customer is delivering wastewater to
the city's system that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires treatment
that is not provided by the city as normal domestic treatment; or
      (3)   The customer:
         (a)   Discharges waste or wastewater that is in violation of the
permit issued by the approving authority;
         (b)   Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in
sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment system;
         (c)   Fails to pay monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer services
when due; or
         (d)   Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes to public sewers in
violation of §§
51.21 through
51.28 as stated above.
   (B)   If service is discontinued pursuant to division (A)(2) of this
section, the city shall:
      (1)   Disconnect the customer;
      (2)   Supply the customer with the governmental agency's report and
provide the customer with all pertinent information; and
      (3)   Continue disconnection until such time as the customer provides
pretreatment/additional pretreatment or other facilities designed to remove the
objectionable characteristics from his or her wastes.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.35 NOTICE.
   The city shall serve persons discharging in violation of this subchapter
with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for satisfactory compliance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.36 CONTINUING PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person may continue discharging in violation of this subchapter beyond
the time limit provided in the notice.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.37 FAILURE TO PAY.
   In addition to sanctions provided for by this subchapter, the city is
entitled to exercise sanctions provided for by other ordinances of the city for
failure to pay the bill for water and sanitary sewer service when due.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the terms of §
51.01 by maintaining a privy vault; failing to maintain a water closet; or
failing to be connected to the city sewer where the property line in question
is within 100 feet of the city sewer line shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in any sum not less than $10 nor
more than $20, and each and every day or fraction of a day during which §
51.01 or any part thereof shall be violated shall be deemed a separate offense
and punishable as such.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating §
51.02 shall be fined up to the maximum fine set forth in §
10.99.
   (D)   A person who continues prohibited discharges is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction is punishable by a fine of not more than the
amount set forth in §
10.99 for each act of violation and for each day of violation.
   (E)   In addition to proceeding under authority of division (B) of this
section, the city is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies
to which it is entitled under authority of statues or other ordinances against
a person continuing prohibited discharges.
   (F)   The city may pursue all criminal and civil remedies to which it is
entitled under authority of statutes and ordinances against a person
negligently, willfully or maliciously causing loss by tampering with or
destroying public sewers or treatment facilities.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 70-1, passed 7-7-1970; Ord. passed 6-11-1991)
CHAPTER 52: WATER; WASTEWATER; SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
Section
Authority and Definitions
   
52.001   Authority
   
52.002   Purpose
   
52.003   Findings of fact
   
52.004   Definitions
Water and Wastewater Service
   
52.025   Mandatory connection to city system
   
52.026   Application for water connections
   
52.027   Connections and taps to water and wastewater system
   
52.028   Interconnections
Deposits, Rates and Charges for Service
   
52.045   Application for services
   
52.046   Tap fees
   
52.047   Security deposits and utility accounts
   
52.048   Rates for water service
   
52.049   Rates for wastewater service
   
52.050   Rates for solid waste services
   
52.051   Line extension and street cutting fees
   
52.052   No reduced rates or free service
Billing and Termination of Services
   
52.065   Billing and payment for services
   
52.066   Late charges
   
52.067   Termination of service and charges for disconnection and reconnection
   
52.068   Minors
Solid Waste Collection
   
52.080   Residential service
   
52.081   Commercial and industrial units
Waterworks System
   
52.095   Damage or injury to waterworks system
   
52.096   Repair of damages
General Provisions
   
52.120   No service guarantee
   
52.121   Violations and notices
   
52.122   Costs and appeals
   
52.123   Cost of abatement constitutes lien
   
52.124   Enforcement
 
   
52.999   Penalty
AUTHORITY AND DEFINITIONS
§ 52.001 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the police powers and authority given
general law cities by the constitution, codes and general laws of the State of
Texas, including but not limited to Tex. Loc. Gov't. Code Chs. 51 and 402.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for public health and general
welfare, the efficient and effective provision of city services and the
protection of the environment and natural resources of the community. From and
after the passage of this chapter all residential, business, commercial and
industrial occupancies and uses within the city and its service area shall
conform to the following rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.003 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The findings and recitations set out in the preamble of this chapter are
found to be true and correct and that they are hereby adopted by the City
Council and made a part hereof for all purposes.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section;
provided that, unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have
in common usage, and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable
application.
   BULKY WASTE. Stoves, refrigerators, water tanks, washing machines,
furniture, used and discarded mattresses and other waste materials other than
construction debris, dead animals, hazardous waste or stable matter with
weights or volumes greater that those allowed for cans.
   BUNDLE. Tree, shrub and brush trimmings or newspaper and magazines securely
tied together forming an easily handled package not exceeding three feet in
length and 35 pounds in weight.
   BUSINESS UNIT. Any premises, locations or entities, public or private,
including all industrial and commercial entities, within the corporate limits
of the city not a residential unit.
   CITY. The City of Trinidad, Texas.
   CITY'S OPERATOR. The person, firm, corporation, municipal corporation or
political subdivision which the city has designated to operate and maintain the
city's water system.
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL. Any establishment, public or private, rendering a
service, manufacturing a product, offering a product for sale or any other
similar activity.
   CONNECTION. The initial or first connection ("tap") or any subsequent
additional connection of a residential or business unit to the city's water
system.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair or demolition operations.
   CONTRACTOR. The person, corporation or partnership performing refuse
collection and disposal under contract with the city.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, firm or corporation receiving city water, wastewater
or solid waste disposal services for a residential or business unit, whether
within the city or outside the city limits.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE INSPECTION. An examination of the private water
distribution facility for the purpose of providing or denying water service.
The inspection is limited to the identification and prevention of cross-
connections, potential contaminant hazards, and illegal lead materials.
Customer service inspections are completed before providing continuous water
service to new construction, on any existing service where there is reason to
believe that cross-connections or other potential contaminant hazards exist, or
after any material improvement, correction, or addition to private water
distribution facilities.
   DEAD ANIMALS. An animal or portion thereof that have expired from any cause.
   GARBAGE. An accumulation of waste (animal, vegetable and/or other matter)
that results from the preparation, processing, consumption, dealing in,
handling, packing, canning, storage, transportation, decay or decomposition of
meats, fish, fowl, birds, fruit or other animal or vegetable matter (including,
but not by way of limitation, used tin cans and other food containers; and all
putrescible or easily decomposable waste animal or vegetable matter which is
likely to attract flies or rodents); except (in all cases) any matter included
in the definition of BULKY WASTE, CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS, DEAD ANIMALS, HAZARDOUS
WASTE, RUBBISH or STABLE MATTER.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste, in any amount, which is defined, characterized or
designated as hazardous by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or
appropriate state agency by or pursuant to federal or state law, or waste, in
any amount, which is regulated under federal or state law, including motor oil,
gasoline, paint and paint cans.
   OCCUPIED. A building, structure, or land is being dwelt in or used for
business, industrial, community, civic, volunteer, non-profit, or governmental
activities or functions for any period of time during the day.
   PERSON. An individual human, partnership, co-partnership firm, company,
limited liability partnership or other partnership or other such company, joint
venture, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, association
or corporation or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives,
agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the
singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
   PRODUCER. An occupant of a residential or business unit who generates
refuse.
   REFUSE. Residential refuse, bulky waste, construction debris and stable
matter generated at residential unit, unless the context otherwise requires,
and commercial and industrial refuse.
   RESIDENTIAL REFUSE. All garbage and rubbish generated by a producer at a
residential unit.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A dwelling within the corporate limits or a service area
of the city intended for occupancy by a person or group of persons comprising
not more than one family. A dwelling shall be deemed occupied and shall be
deemed by the city to be a separate residential unit for billing and collection
purposes when either water or electrical power services are being supplied
thereto.
   RUBBISH. Waste wood, wood products, tree trimmings, grass cuttings, dead
plants, weeds, leaves, dead trees or branches thereof, chips, shavings,
sawdust, printed matter, paper, pasteboard, rags, straw, used and discarded
clothing, used and discarded shoes and boots, combustible waste pulp and other
products such as are used for packaging or wrapping crockery and glass, ashes,
cinders, floor sweepings, glass, mineral or metallic substances, and any and
all other waste materials not included in the definition of BULKY WASTE,
CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS, DEAD ANIMALS, GARBAGE, HAZARDOUS WASTE or STABLE MATTER.
   SEPARATE CONNECTION. The individual metering facilities for each residential
or business unit for which the city services have been requested or provided,
whether occupied or not.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
WATER AND WASTEWATER SERVICE
§ 52.025 MANDATORY CONNECTION TO CITY SYSTEM.
   (A)   Except as provided otherwise in the chapter, no building, tract of
land or structure in an area of the city for which water service is available
shall be occupied for residential, commercial, industrial or other such
purposes unless such buildings or structures are receiving city water and
wastewater service and are connected by a separate connection to the city water
and wastewater system, unless:
      (1)   With respect to water service, such buildings or structures are
receiving water from a privately owned water well, as authorized by this
chapter; and
      (2)   With respect to sewer service, such buildings or structures are
receiving water from an on-site septic system as authorized by this chapter and
other applicable regulations. Property that abuts a street, road or other
public way in which a public water supply is located and is within 200 feet of
such water line is deemed to have access to the city water system. No tract of
land shall be required to be connected to the city water system that requests
connection to the city water system in writing and has been denied connection.
   (B)   Each residential unit and business unit within the city shall be
connected by separate connection to the city water system as soon as city water
service is available to such unit, unless specifically exempted herein.
   (C)   Any unoccupied residential unit or business unit within the city for
which water service has been provided previously by the city water system or
its predecessor shall be connected to the city water system by a separate
connection prior to occupancy.
   (D)   Any two or more residential units that are found to be obtaining water
service through a single meter shall be required to connect each such unit by a
separate connection to the city water system within 30 days.
   (E)   Any residential unit within the city that is being served by a
privately-owner water well on the effective date of this chapter shall be
connected to the city water system by a separate connection at such time as the
well fails to meet permit and Department of Health requirements or other
statutes or regulations of the state.
   (F)   Each business unit within the city shall be connected by a separate
connection to the city water system as soon as city water service is available
to such unit, unless specifically exempted herein.
   (G)   Any commercial or industrial establishments or entities located within
a single building and served by a master meter on the effective date of this
chapter may elect to continue to receive water service through a master meter.
   (H)   From the effective date of this chapter, no person or commercial or
industrial establishment shall be permitted to obtain service through a master
meter or otherwise provide water service to another person or entity, except as
specified in division (G) of this section.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.026 APPLICATION FOR WATER CONNECTIONS.
   Each person desiring water service shall be required to complete an
application for such service and pay such fees as are established by this
chapter. No service shall be rendered until such fees are paid.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.027 CONNECTIONS AND TAPS TO WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Certification. Connections shall not be made to either the city water
or the wastewater system until the city's operator or other party designated by
the City Council has certified that the respective system or applicable portion
thereof is adequate and operational. Water service shall not be provided to any
residential or business unit not in compliance with rules and regulations
promulgated by the Texas Department of Health, the Texas Natural Resources and
Conservation Council, as set out in the Texas Water Code or as otherwise
required by statute or regulation.
   (B)   Service access. Upon application for connection to the water system
the applicant shall grant an easement of ingress and egress to and from the
meter or point of service for such installation, maintenance and repair as the
city, in its judgement, may deem necessary. Taps and connections will not be
made when, in the opinion of the city's operator, building materials obstructs
the work area and debris or the work area is not completed to finished grade.
When sidewalks, driveways or other improvements have been constructed prior to
application for service, such application shall be construed and accepted as a
waiver of a claim for damages to such improvements resulting from the
reasonable actions of the city's operator in installation of the customer's
connection.
   (C)   City property. All meters, fittings, boxes, valves and appurtenances
installed by city personnel shall remain the property of the city. City
maintenance of the water service ends at the customer side of the connection to
the water meter itself. City maintenance of the wastewater service ends at the
tap, or point of connection, of the lateral line into the city wastewater line.
   (D)   Connections. All connections of the city water system and/or
wastewater system shall be made by the city's operator unless specified
otherwise by the City Council. No person, other than the properly authorized
agents of the city, shall be permitted to tap or make any connections with the
mains, distribution or collection lines of the city's water system, or
wastewater system, except for emergency fire fighting purposes, or make any
repairs or additions to or alterations in any meter box, tap, pipe, cock or
other fixture connected with the water service except by the written permission
of the City Council. No dual or multiple connections (being more than one user
on a single meter) shall be permitted.
   (E)   Plan approval required. Each applicant for a connection shall within
ten days prior to payment of tap fees, submit to the city operator the
following information:
      (1)   One set of drawings showing details of building plumbing, site
plumbing and the location, size and number of proposed connections to the
city's water system and/or wastewater system; and
      (2)   A general description of the type of proposed establishment.
      (3)   The city's operator or other party designated by the City Council
shall review the information presented and may approve or reject the
application, or request that further information be submitted prior to the
approval of the application. The applicant shall be notified in writing as to
the basis for rejection. Failure to construct the facilities in accordance with
approved drawings shall constitute a basis for denial of city water services.
If the application information is not timely made, the city shall not be held
responsible for delays in the installation of any water or wastewater
connection. Payment of tap fees to the city prior to the approval of plans
shall not constitute approval of said plans or approval for service as set
forth herein; any unauthorized connection or connections may be removed at the
expense of the person or firm causing such connection or connections to be
made.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.028 INTERCONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Interconnections or cross connection of the city's water or wastewater
system, whether directly or through the customer's private system to another
source of water or otherwise, is strictly prohibited. Initial customers shall
construct, and each customer shall maintain, water connections and
appurtenances so as to avoid infiltration of any substance into the city water
system. City personnel shall have access to all customer water line connections
and appurtenances within reasonable time periods to inspect for suspected
unauthorized connections. The city reserves the right to immediately and
without notice disconnect water services to any customer whose internal private
system has been found to be interconnected or cross connected, and to assess
against the customer such penalties as are provided by law and penalties
provided herein in addition to any charges necessary to repair the damaged or
contaminated portion of the system.
   (B)   No cross connection shall be made between private wells and the city
public water works system or any other potable water supply system.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019) Penalty, see §
52.999
DEPOSITS, RATES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
§ 52.045 APPLICATION FOR SERVICES.
   Each prospective customer desiring water, wastewater and/or garbage service
shall provide appropriate information for billing, accounting and rate
classification purposes in order to obtain such service and shall pay the
applicable tap fees, deposits, and monthly charges as set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.046 TAP FEES.
   The following tap fees shall be collected as applicable from the applicant
before the corresponding water or wastewater system tap or connection is made:
   (A)   Standard residential connection (3/4-inch by 5/8-inch water tap):
      (1)   Water tap fee: $1,000 plus deposit ($200) plus connect fee (inside
city limits ($45) or Outside City limits ($60)
      (2)   Sewer tap fee: $1,200 plus deposit ($200)
   (B)   Nonstandard residential connection (other than 3/4-inch by 5/8-inch
tap) and all other water connections, including business:   
      (1)   Water tap fee: $1,000 plus deposit ($200) plus connect fee (inside
city limits ($45) or outside city limits ($60) plus cost of materials)
      (2)   Sewer tap fee: $1,200 plus deposit ($200), plus cost of materials.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.047 SECURITY DEPOSITS AND UTILITY ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Deposit required.
      (1)   All new and existing customers of the water and/or sewer utilities
shall be required to pay and maintain a security deposit in the amount of $200
at all times plus a connect fee (inside city limits ($45) or outside city
limits ($60).
      (2)   All customers requesting utility service shall personally sign the
application for services and provide verification of name and current address
for billing.
      (3)   In the event any utility customer's service is disconnected for
late payment, the city will apply the deposit to the deficiency and require
full payment of any delinquent utility account, in addition to any reconnection
fees and reinstatement of the full security deposit prior to reinstatement and
reconnection of utility services.
      (4)   Security deposits shall remain with the city until termination of
services.
   (B)   Application of utility deposits.
      (1)   All utility deposits held with the city shall, in addition to
securing the payment for utility services received, also secure and may be
applied to any other debt or obligation owed the city by the person or entity
having made the utility deposit. The remaining balance of any and all utility
deposits collected by the city for water, sewer or solid waste disposal shall
be returned to the individual who secured the deposit in his or her name, at
such time as such person terminates such utility service with the city.
      (2)   The deposit will first be applied to any outstanding utility or
solid waste disposal bills, then to any additional outstanding debts to the
city and the remainder will be returned upon proper request and application.
Additional outstanding debts of the individual seeking return of a utility
deposit include but are not limited to:
         (a)   Other utility services which have been provided under said
person's name and that have an outstanding balance due and owing to the city;
         (b)   Any ambulance, EMS, fire or other such city operated services
which have bills outstanding in such person's name;
         (c)   Liens placed by the city upon any property owned by such person;
and
         (d)   Any outstanding fees, charges, court costs, fines or warrants
payable by such person by virtue of any record, action or proceeding in the
Municipal Court.
      (3)   No interest shall accrue or be due for any security deposits for
water, sewer or solid waste disposal.
      (4)   A charge and fee in the amount of $1 per month, not to exceed the
balance of the utility deposit, is hereby established for each account that is
required to be maintained by the city for and with respect to services,
accounts, and service addresses for which a customer terminated utility service
or for which a utility deposit is returned by postal service to the city for
wrong forwarding address. Upon any such customer entitled to receive a refund
of any such utility deposit balances contacting the city and obtaining the
refund, or the depletion of such remaining deposit balance, the account shall
be closed. The $1 fee shall be deducted from the utility deposit balance until
the latest of:
         (a)   Eighteen months after the date a refund check for the utility
deposit was payable to the owner of the deposit;
         (b)   Eighteen months after the date the city last received documented
communication from the owner of the utility deposit; or
         (c)   Eighteen months after the date the city issued a refund check
for the deposit payable to the owner of the deposit if, according to the
knowledge and city's records, during that period, a claim to the check has not
been asserted or an act of ownership by the payee has not been exercised.
      (5)   Whenever the Utility Department applies deposit to any outstanding
debt or refuses to return a deposit, the individual seeking return of a deposit
held in their name may, if not satisfied with the decision of the Director of
the Utility Department, appeal the decision to the City Manager within ten days
from the date of the decision.
   (C)   Transfer of services.
      (1)   Any existing customer requesting a transfer of any utilities must
maintain the appropriate deposit for the utility services being transferred.
Any existing deposit, less deficiencies on the existing account, will be
transferred directly to the new account. Any deficiencies in the prior utility
account will also be transferred to the new utility account. Transfer fee is
$45.
      (2)   No customer will be allowed to transfer and maintain services
without paying all deficiencies on existing or prior utility accounts in full
and having the full deposit for utility services on deposit with the city at
the time of transfer, but not later than the next complete billing cycle at the
transfer location.
   (D)   Customer service inspections. All customers receiving services from
the city shall be subject to a customer service inspection by the city's
certified Customer Service Inspection employee. The fee for the "CSI"
inspection is $50. A customer service inspection is an examination of the
private water distribution facility for the purpose of providing or denying
water service. The inspection is limited to the identification and prevention
of cross-connections, potential contaminant hazards, and illegal lead
materials. Customer service inspections are completed before providing
continuous water service to new construction, on any existing service where
there is reason to believe that cross-connections or other potential
contaminant hazards exist, or after any material improvement, correction, or
addition to private water distribution facilities.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.048 RATES FOR WATER SERVICE.
   The following rates, fees and charges shall be charged and paid for water
services within the city:
   (A)   Minimum rate. Residential and commercial customers shall be charged
the applicable minimum monthly rate per meter established herein as long as
such meter is active, whether the customer actually used the services or not;
provided that, if a meter is removed or locked at the customer's request, no
minimum charge for service shall be assessed.
   (B)   Residential rate. The first 1,000 gallons of water used are included
in the minimum water charge. The following monthly rates shall be charged for
residential water service:
 
Minimum monthly charge per meter $27.00
0 to 1,000 gal                   $27.00 minimum
1,001 to 4,000 gal               $3.75 per thousand
4,001 to 7,000 gal               $4.00 per thousand
7,001 to 12,000 gal              $4.25 per thousand
12,001 to 20,000 gal             $4.40 per thousand
20,000+ gal                      $5.25 per thousand
 
   (C)   Commercial - single entity rate. Where a single business unit,
business establishment, customer or entity receives service off of a meter.
 
Minimum monthly charge per meter $30.00
0 to 1,000 gal                   $30.00 minimum
1,001 to 4,000 gal               $3.75 per thousand
4,001 to 7,000 gal               $4.00 per thousand
7,001 to 12,000 gal              $4.25 per thousand
12,001 to 20,000 gal             $4.40 per thousand
20,000+ gal                      $5.25 per thousand
 
   (D)   Industrial rate.
      (1)   Minimum monthly charge per meter: $900
      (2)   For each 1,000 gallons of water metered: 6.00
   (E)   Outside city. The following rates will be charged to all customers for
water service provided outside the city limits of the City of Trinidad:
 
Minimum monthly charge per meter $45.00
0 to 1,000 gal                   $35.00 minimum
1,001 to 4,000 gal               $3.80 per thousand
4,001 to 7,000 gal               $4.05 per thousand
7,001 to 12,000 gal              $4.20 per thousand
12,001 to 20,000 gal             $4.35 per thousand
20,000+ gal                      $5.30 per thousand
 
   (F)   Bulk rate. $10.50 per 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.049 RATES FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Minimum and calculated sewer rate.  
      (1)   Residential. Fixed rate is based upon average water consumption for
the months of January, February and March. The rates are based on $21 minimum,
plus the following table:
 
1,001 to 4,000 gal   $2.90 per thousand
4,001 to 7,000 gal   $3.15 per thousand
7,001 to 12,000 gal  $3.15 per thousand
12,001 to 20,000 gal $3.15 per thousand
20,000+ gal          $3.15 per thousand
 
      (2)   Commercial. The monthly rates are based on $25 minimum, plus the
following table:
 
1,001 to 4,000 gal   $2.75 per thousand
4,001 to 7,000 gal   $3.00 per thousand
7,001 to 12,000 gal  $3.00 per thousand
12,001 to 20,000 gal $3.00 per thousand
20,000+ gal          $3.00 per thousand
 
   (B)   Housing projects. Separate permanent housing units and apartments
shall be billed at the minimum rate per unit.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.050 RATES FOR SOLID WASTE SERVICES.
   (A)   Residential. The minimum monthly charge per residential unit shall be
determined by rates set by the waste service company contracted with the City
of Trinidad. The fee for the first month of service shall be collected on the
first billing cycle after application for service is made and payment of the
monthly rate shall be made each month thereafter.
   (B)   Commercial or industrial. The rates for solid waste services for
commercial and industrial customers shall be determined by individual agreement
and contract based upon location, volume and frequency of service.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.051 LINE EXTENSION AND STREET CUTTING FEES.
   Water and sewer taps will be made for the base tap fee provided the tap is
made to a water or wastewater line abutting or adjacent to the lot or parcel to
be served ("standard location"). For the purposes of this chapter, a tap made
on a water or wastewater line located between the boundary line of the property
to be served and the right-of-way line of the street or alley abutting such
lot, or a line located within portions of the street, shall also constitute a
tap made at a standard location. A tap made at a standard location shall be a
standard connection. A non-standard location is any location for a tap to serve
any lot, tract or parcel of land other than at a standard location. A non-
standard connection is any tap that requires work, construction or extensions
to be made for the tap, or that is made at other than a standard location.
Additional charges and fees will be assessed and collected as herein detailed
for costs associated with line extensions and taps made to a non-standard
location.
   (A)   Availability of service. The existence of mains, truck lines or other
lines, near a property will not constitute an obligation for the city to limit
the tap fee or charge for making a water or sewer service tap to such line,
where such lines must be tapped at other than a standard location, are
inaccessible due to necessary crossings of streets, highways, drainage channels
and similar barriers, or when cost must be incurred over and above the cost for
making a tap at a standard location. Taps at non-standard locations must be
arranged for with the Director of Public Works in advance of the desired
service date, to permit necessary extensions, crossings or similar
construction.
   (B)   Installation of a non-standard connection. Upon the approval of the
City Manager, the owner or developer of a subdivision requiring a non-standard
connection may contract with a qualified contractor for the installation,
construction and extension of any water or sewer line necessary to make a non-
standard connection or as necessary for the location of the tap to become a
standard location and, in such an event, such owner or developer shall pay the
reasonable costs and charges therefore directly to the contractor and obtain a
receipt and release from said contractor. The city shall otherwise, at the
expense of the applicant for the tap, construct all line extensions and perform
all construction required to make a water or sewer tap at a non-standard
location. The City Engineer or Department of Public Works shall inspect such
construction and work to assure it is completed in compliance with the
applicable rules and regulations of the city and the Texas Natural Resource
Conservation Council.
   (C)   Costs. The reasonable costs and expenses for installing, constructing
and extending any water or sewer line of the city to provide a tap at a non-
standard location, or to extend such lines to a standard location, shall be
charged and collected by the city, if such costs are not paid directly by an
owner/developer pursuant to division (B) of this section. Such additional costs
and expenses shall be equal to the difference between the cost of making the
tap at a standard location and the cost of making the tap at a standard
location, or, as the case may be, the difference between the cost of making the
tap at a standard location and the costs incurred for the work and construction
to extend the lines to a point or location that is a standard location for the
tap.
   (D)   Payment of line extension fee. When a water or sewer line extension
charge is required the city may at its option require the owner being furnished
the line to:
      (1)   Deposit in advance, the estimated costs for construction of the
water or sewer line that is estimated to be costs additional to a standard
connection;
      (2)   Post a bond sufficient to cover the total estimated costs of line
extension; or
      (3)   Provide a letter of credit sufficient to cover the total estimated
costs of the line extension.
   (E)   Line extension fees outside city limits. The costs set out in this
section shall apply for connections to property both inside and outside the
city limits.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.052 NO REDUCED RATES OR FREE SERVICE.
   All customers receiving services from the city shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter and shall be charged the rates established in this
chapter, and no reduced rates or free service shall be furnished to any
customer. It is specifically provided, however, that this provision shall not
prohibit the city, upon good cause shown, from establishing reasonable
classifications of customers for which rates differing from the rates stated
herein may be adopted, and that nothing contained herein shall be construed to
prevent the city from furnishing water services to special projects or other
establishments at a bulk rate if deemed advisable by the city.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
BILLING AND TERMINATION OF SERVICES
§ 52.065 BILLING AND PAYMENT FOR SERVICES.
   Bills for water, wastewater and solid waste services shall be mailed on or
about the first day of each month for the services provided during the
immediately preceding month.
   (A)   Billing date. The billing date shall be the date of mailing and the
failure of the customer to receive any such bill shall in no way relieve the
customer of the duty to pay for the services rendered on or before the due
date.
   (B)   Due date. All bills for water, wastewater and solid waste collection
services are due on or before the fifteenth day of each month (the "due date")
by 4:30 p.m.
   (C)   NSF fee. Any payment for utility service that is deemed NSF by the
bank, will incur a NSF charge fee of $30.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.066 LATE CHARGES.
   If payment of any bill is not made by the due date, the city shall promptly
mail a second written notice that a late charge equal to 10% of the total
billing or a minimum charge of $4 for water, wastewater and solid waste
collection services will be added to the billing.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.067 TERMINATION OF SERVICE AND CHARGES FOR DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION.
   (A)   Termination for delinquency. The city shall have the right to and will
terminate water, wastewater and solid waste collection services to any
customer, disconnecting the supply of water ten days after the due date
(fifteenth), i.e. a customer's bill becomes delinquent and notice of late
payment having been given. The bill shall be considered delinquent if it is not
paid in full by the twenty-fifth day of each month at 4:30 p.m. A customer's
account will be considered delinquent and will be disconnected. A fee of $45
(inside city limits) or $60 (outside city limits) will be charged to reconnect
to the water system. No extension of service or payment arrangements will be
made at the time of disconnection of services.
   (B)   Reconnect. A charge of $45 inside city limits/$60 outside city limits
will be assessed as a service fee for each occurrence requiring personnel to
approach the residence or business unit for disconnect whether or not services
are actually terminated. Such fee shall be charged when personnel leave city
premises to disconnect services, even if the delinquent bill is paid before
city personnel arrive at the residence or business unit to terminate service.
Such fee shall include the fee for reconnection and all reconnect fees must be
paid at the time past due monies are tendered, and prior to any reconnection or
additional services being provided.
   (C)   Termination at owner's request. Whenever a customer who is not
delinquent in the payment of any bill requests that water service be
temporarily discontinued, he or she shall notify the city's operator at least
two days prior to the date he desires service discontinued. There will be a $45
inside city limits/$60 outside city limits reconnect fee payable at the time
the customer desires services to continue.
   (D)   Delinquent accounts. Any residence or property where utility services
are requested to be provided where a deficient account is still outstanding
from a previous customer shall not be reconnected in a different name than the
account was previously connected under unless the person requesting utility
services demonstrates that the person whose name the account was previously
billed to is no longer a resident of the property or in control of the property
without paying the deficiencies on the account.
      (1)   New owners of a property or new residents of a leasehold shall not
be responsible for the delinquent utility accounts of a prior owner or lessor
who has vacated the premises.
      (2)   No customer may establish a new utility account in his or her name
who has an outstanding deficiency from any previous utility account held by the
city and such account has been delinquent for less than four years without
paying all deficiencies in addition to the deposit for the new utility account.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.068 MINORS.
   No account may be held in the name of a person who is under the age of 18
years unless the minor requesting services provides adequate evidence that the
minor has been emancipated through marriage or other legal means.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
§ 52.080 RESIDENTIAL SERVICE.
   The following rules, regulations and provisions shall, in addition to the
other applicable provisions of the chapter, govern the provision of solid waste
services to residential units.
   (A)   Mandatory participation by residential units. Every residential unit
within the corporate limits of the city shall be required to utilize garbage
collection and disposal services provided under contract by the city when such
residential unit is occupied. A residential unit shall be deemed occupied when
either water, sewer, or electrical power services are being supplied.
   (B)   Curbside service. The contractor shall provide curbside collection
service for the collection of garbage to each residential unit one time per
week. Customers must place garbage cans or bins at curbside by 7:00 a.m. on the
designated collection day. All garbage must be bagged and tied. In addition to
the scheduled weekly collection of residential refuse, the contractor may from
time to time provide special collection of bundles, bulky waste, construction
debris, dead animals and hazardous waste at residential units at the request of
the city.
   (C)   Can placement at curb. Each can for collection shall be placed at
curbside for collection. Trash cans cannot be put out earlier than one day
before scheduled trash pick-up day and trash cans need to be taken in no later
than the next day after the schedule trash pick up day. Curbside refers to that
portion of the right-of-way adjacent to paved or traveled city roadways with
placement as close to the roadway as practicable without interfering with or
endangering the movement of vehicles or pedestrians. When construction work is
being performed in the right-of-way, garbage cans shall be placed as close as
practicable to an access point for the collection vehicle. The contractor may
decline to collect any garbage cans not so placed.
   (D)   Hours of operation. Collection of residential refuse and special
collections scheduled by the city shall not start before 7:00 a.m. or continue
after 7:00 p.m. on the same day. Exceptions to collection shall be effected
only upon the mutual agreement of the city and contractor, or when the
contractor reasonably determines that an exception is necessary to complete
collection on an existing collection route due to unusual circumstances.
   (E)   Holidays. In the event of suspension of regular collection service on
a holiday, collection service shall be provided on the next business day after
the holiday.
   (F)   Complaints. All complaints shall be made directly to the contractor.
In the case of verified missed scheduled collections, the contractor shall
arrange for the collection within 48 hours after the complaint is received. The
city shall notify customers of complaint procedures, and of the location and
telephone number at which the contractor can be reached between the hours from
8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. on regular collection days.
   (G)   Appeal. Any determination by the city, the contractor or the city's
operator regarding the terms and provisions of this chapter may be appealed to
the City Council, which shall conduct a hearing on the matter. The city, the
contractor or the city's operator, as applicable, shall, upon request, provide
the customer with information regarding appeals and hearing procedures.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.081 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL UNITS.
   Commercial or industrial units shall arrange by individual agreement for
collection and disposal of refuse. Such operations shall comply with all
applicable laws. Vehicles and equipment used for such collections shall be kept
in good repair, appearance and sanitary condition, and all refuse shall be
contained, tied or enclosed so as to prevent leaking, spilling or blowing
during hauling.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
WATERWORKS SYSTEM
§ 52.095 DAMAGE OR INJURY TO WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way, to intentionally or
carelessly break, deface or in any manner damage, injure or destroy any
hydrant, standpipe, lock box or other property belonging to the city or
belonging to others, and used in connection with the waterworks system of the
city. No person other than a duly authorized agent of the city shall remove,
repair, or tamper with or in any way interfere with the city's meter boxes,
meters, lock boxes, water service lines, sewer service lines, or other water or
sewer system appurtenances. The city reserves the right to immediately and
without notice remove the meter or disconnect water service to any customer
whose meter has been tampered with and to assess actual repair charges to the
customer plus a damage fee of $250.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.096 REPAIR OF DAMAGES.
   All meters, fittings, boxes, valves and appurtenances installed by city
personnel shall remain the property of the city. The city reserves the right on
24-hour notice and no appeal being filed, to remove the meter or disconnect
water service to any customer whose meter or lock box has been tampered with
and to assess actual repair charges to the customer plus a damage fee of $250.
As necessary or advisable to protect the public health or the operation and
function of the city's water or sewer system, the city further reserves the
right and authority to proceed immediately and without notice to disconnect, or
to repair when and as necessary and appropriate, any meter, pipe, line or other
appurtenance connected to the city water or sewer system, and if such repair is
made to any such line, pipe or appurtenance owned by any private property owner
to assess the actual repair charges to the customer who owns, rents, or
controls such property. Failure to repair or failure to pay for repairs
performed by the city shall constitute cause for the city to terminate services
to the customer charged with the repairs. The city requires each customer to
CALL BEFORE YOU DIG so the Water Department will be able to locate lines for
the customer. Repair charges will be assessed to the customer if NO attempt is
made to contact the city Water Department before digging and damage occurs.
Repair charges are due within ten days from the date of invoice and are as
follows:
   (A)   Labor charges. Regular time for repairs needed during normal business
hours. After 5:00 p.m. and weekends: time and one-half;
   (B)   Equipment rental. Actual cost to city. If not paid within ten days
from date of invoice, the city reserves the right to immediately and without
notice remove the meter or disconnect water service until all repair charges
are paid in full.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.120 NO SERVICE GUARANTEE.
   Customers are not guaranteed a specific quantity or pressure of water, or
any specific level of any solid waste, sewer or other service, for any purpose
whatever; in no instance shall the city be liable for failure or refusal to
furnish water or any particular amount or pressure of water, or any other
service under this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.121 VIOLATIONS AND NOTICES.
   (A)   Theft of service. The city takes theft very seriously and it will not
be tolerated in any manner. All theft of service will be reported to the local
law enforcement for charges. There will be a theft of service charge of $1,000.
   (B)   If an officer charged with the enforcement of this chapter shall
determine that a person has violated any provision of this chapter, such
officer may issue a citation.
   (C)   If an officer charged with the enforcement of this chapter shall
determine that a situation exists which immediately affects or threatens the
health, safety and well-being of the general public, and that immediate action
is necessary such officer may take such action as shall be necessary, including
issuing citations for violations of the terms and provisions hereof to the
owner and/or occupant of the property upon which such condition exists, as may
be deemed appropriate and necessary.
   (D)   If an officer charged with enforcement of this chapter determines a
situation constitutes an immediate threat to the public health, safety and
welfare, and the owner or occupant of the property is absent or fails to
immediately remedy the violation, the City Council may, at a regular session or
at an emergency session called for the purpose of considering the issue, upon
evidence heard, determine that an emergency exists and order such action as may
be required to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (E)   If any owner or occupant shall fail or refuse to remedy any of the
conditions prohibited by this chapter within seven days after notice to do so,
the city may terminate services or do such work or cause the same to be done,
and pay therefore, and charge the expenses in doing or having such work done or
improvements made to the owner(s) of the property, and such charge shall be a
personal liability of such owner to the city.
   (F)   Notices required pursuant to this chapter shall be in writing. Such
notices may be served upon such owner and/or occupant as follows: in person by
an officer or employee of the city; by letter addressed to such owner or
occupant at his/her post office address; or, if personal service may not be
had, or the owner or occupant's address be not known, then notice may be given
by publishing a brief summary of such order at least once in the official
newspaper of the city or by posting a notice on or near the front door of each
building on the property upon which the violation relates, or, if no building
exists, by posting notice on a placard attached to a stake driven into the
ground on the property to which the violation relates. Notices for termination
of services for non-payment shall be mailed regular first class mail to the
address designated on the account for receipt of bill and shall be deemed
served within three days of deposit in the regular mail. The notice may state
"Sanitary Improvements", "To Whom It May Concern" and a brief statement of the
violation(s) or delinquency. If the notice is for delinquency, the notice shall
include a termination date and location for payment for services. Service of
the notice by any one of the above methods, or by a combination thereof, shall
be deemed sufficient notice.
   (G)   If an owner is mailed a notice in accordance with division (F) and the
United States Postal Service returns the notice as "refused" or "unclaimed" the
validity of the notice is not affected, and the notice is considered as
delivered.
   (H)   Notices of nuisances provided by mail or by posting as set forth in
division (F) may provide for year round abatement of the nuisance and inform
the owner that should the owner commit any other violation of the same kind
that pose a danger to the public health and safety on or before the first
anniversary of the date of the notice, the city without further notice may
abate the violation at the owner's expense and assess the costs against the
property.
   (I)   Persons in violation of the chapter or causing or creating a
prohibited nuisance in the presence of a person authorized to enforce this
chapter may be cited or a complaint filed for such violation without notice of
the violation, or warning, and such citation or complaint shall be filed in the
Municipal Court of the city.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.122 COSTS AND APPEALS.
   In addition to any other remedy provided in this chapter and cumulative
thereto, the Code Enforcement Officer, after giving to the owner of the
property seven days notice in writing, as provided in §
51.121 above, may cause any of the work or improvements mentioned in this
chapter to be done at the expense of the city, and charge the utility bill of
the property on which such work or improvements are done, and cause all of the
actual cost to the city to be assessed on the real estate or lot on which such
expenses occurred; provided, that the owner of any such real estate may appeal
to the City Council from the order of the Code Enforcement Officer by filing a
written statement with the Code Enforcement Officer within seven days after
receipt of the notice provided for above, stating that such real estate
complied with the provision of this chapter before the expiration of a seven
day period. The City Council shall set a date, within 30 days from the date of
the appeal, for hearing the appeal to determine whether the real estate
complied with the provisions of this chapter before the expiration of such
seven day period. The Authority of the Code Enforcement Officer to proceed to
cause such work to be done shall not be suspended while an appeal from the
order is pending. If it shall be determined by the City Council that the
premises complied with the provisions of this chapter before the expiration of
the seven day period, then no personal liability of the owner shall arise nor
shall any lien be created against the premises upon which such work was done.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.123 COST OF ABATEMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   Cumulative of the city's remedy by fine, as set forth herein, the city may
do such work or cause the same to be done to remedy such condition to remove
such matter from such owner's premises at the city's expense and charge the
same to the utility bill of such property and assess the same against the real
estate or lot or lots upon which such expense is incurred.
   (A)   Expenditures plus 10% per annum interest on the expenditures from the
date of such payment by the city shall be added to the next billing cycle for
utility bills for the real estate or lot or lots, if not already paid. Payment
shall be due and payable in full by the owner or occupant at the time of
payment of such utility bill. If the property is unoccupied, no utilities shall
be furnished to the property where the work occurred until such obligation as
herein set out, payable to the city for abatement of any nuisance described
herein is paid in full.
   (B)   Upon filing with the County Clerk of Henderson County, Texas, of a
statement by the City Secretary or designee of such expenses, the city shall
have a privileged lien upon said real estate or lot or lots, second only to tax
liens and liens for street improvements, to secure the expenditure so made and
10% per annum interest on the amount from the date of such payment so made by
the city.
   (C)   The city may, additionally, institute suit and recover such expenses
and foreclose such lien in any court of competent jurisdiction, and the
statement so filed with the county or a certified copy thereof shall be prima
facie proof of the amount expended in any such work or improvements to remedy
such condition or remove any such matter.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.124 ENFORCEMENT.
   The civil and criminal provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the
persons or agencies designated by the city, including, but not limited to, the
Police Department, the Building Official, and the Code Enforcement Officer. It
shall be a violation of this chapter to interfere with a Code Enforcement
Officer, or other person authorized to enforce this chapter, in the performance
of his or her duties.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or shall
fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, within the
city limits shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be liable for a fine
not to exceed the sum of $2,000. Each day the violation exists shall constitute
a separate offense. Such penalty shall be in addition to all the other remedies
provided herein.
(Ord. 2019-005, passed 8- -2019)
CHAPTER 53: NATURAL GAS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   General service rate for residential and commercial consumers
   
53.02   Rate adjustments
   
53.03   Tax adjustments
   
53.04   Service charges
   
53.05   Rates and service changes and regulation
Drilling and Production of Oil and Gas Wells
   
53.20   Definitions
   
53.21   Appointment of Oil and Gas Inspector
   
53.22   Compliance with state law or regulations
   
53.23   Location restrictions
   
53.24   Permit requirements
   
53.25   Drilling permits
   
53.26   Derricks and rigs
   
53.27   Pits
   
53.28   Drilling operations and equipment
   
53.29   Condition of premises
   
53.30   Mufflers required
   
53.31   Storage tanks and separators
   
53.32   Noise and other nuisances
   
53.33   Flaring or burning of gas
   
53.34   Fire prevention
   
53.35   Abandonment and plugging
   
53.36   Disposal of salt water
   
53.37   Insurance and bond
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 GENERAL SERVICE RATE FOR RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL CONSUMERS.
   Effective with gas bills rendered on and after 30 days from the final date
of passage of this subchapter, the maximum general service rate for sales of
natural gas rendered to residential and commercial consumers within the city
limits by Lone Star Gas Company, a division of Enserch Corporation, a Texas
Corporation, its successors and assigns, is hereby fixed and determined as set
forth in Item "A", in the attachment to the ordinance codified herein, which is
incorporated herein.
(Ord. 116, passed 2-22-1983)
§ 53.02 RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
   The residential and commercial rates set forth above shall be adjusted
upward or downward from a base of $4.0200 per Mcf by a gas cost adjustment
factor expressed as an amount per 1,000 cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas for
changes in the intracompany city gate rate charge as authorized by the State
Railroad Commission or other regulatory body having jurisdiction for gas
delivered to the city's distribution system, according to Item "B", in the
attachment to the ordinance codified herein, which is incorporated herein.
(Ord. 116, passed 2-22-1983)
§ 53.03 TAX ADJUSTMENTS.
   Company shall also receive tax adjustments according to Item "C", in the
attachment to the ordinance codified herein, which is incorporated herein.
(Ord. 116, passed 2-22-1983)
§ 53.04 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   In addition to the aforesaid rates, the company shall have the right
to collect such reasonable charges as are necessary to conduct its business and
to carry out its reasonable rules and regulations in effect.
   (B)   The service charges set forth in Item "D", in the attachment to the
ordinance codified herein, which is incorporated herein, are approved.
   (C)   Services for which no charge is set out in Item "D" may be performed
and charged for by the company at a level established by the normal forces of
competition.
(Ord. 116, passed 2-22-1983)
§ 53.05 RATES AND SERVICE CHANGES AND REGULATION.
   The rates set forth in §§
53.01 through
53.04 may be changed and amended by either the city or the company in the
manner provided by law. Service hereunder is subject to the orders of
regulatory bodies having jurisdiction and to the company's rules and
regulations currently on file in the company's office.
(Ord. 116, passed 2-22-1983)
DRILLING AND PRODUCTION OF OIL AND GAS WELLS
§ 53.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEASE. Any tract of land subject to an oil, gas and/or mineral lease or
other oil and gas development contract, or any unit composed of several tracts
and/or leases but operated as one lease, and any tract of land in which the
minerals are owned by an operator or someone holding under its or his or her
administrators, executors, heirs, successors and/or assigns; but which, due to
the free royalty ownership, is developed and operated as a separate tract.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a permit is issued for the drilling and
operation of a well under this subchapter and his, her or its administrators,
executors, heirs, successors and assigns shall be designated as the permittee.
   TECHNICAL WORDS or PHRASES. All technical or oil and gas industry words or
phrases used herein and not specifically defined herein shall have that meaning
customarily attributable thereto by prudent operators in the oil and gas
industry.
   WELL or OIL AND GAS WELL. Any hole or holes, bore or bores, to any sand, any
horizon, formation, strata or depth for the purpose of producing and recovering
any oil or gas, liquid hydrocarbons, brine water, salt water injection, sulphur
waste, gas injection or enhanced recovery injection project, or used as an
injection well for secondary recovery, disposal, or production of oil, gas, or
other hydrocarbons from the earth.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 53.21 APPOINTMENT OF OIL AND GAS INSPECTOR.
   The City Council shall appoint an Oil and Gas Inspector if, and when, the
Council deems it advisable, and compensation for same shall be set by the
Council. The Inspector may be removed at the will of the Council. It shall be
the duty of the Oil and Gas Inspector to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 53.22 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW OR REGULATIONS.
   Any violation of state law or any rules, regulations or requirements of any
state or federal regulatory body having jurisdiction in reference to drilling,
completing, equipping, operating, producing, maintaining or abandoning an oil
or gas well or related appurtenances, equipment or facilities; or in reference
to fire walls, fire protection, blowout protection, safety protection or
convenience of persons or property shall also be deemed a violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.23 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Streets and alleys. No oil and/or gas wells shall be drilled and no
permit shall be issued for any well to be drilled at any location which is
within any of the streets or alleys of the city. No street or alley shall be
blocked or encumbered or closed by any drilling or production operation, except
by special permit by order of the City Council and then only temporarily.
   (B)   Residences and commercial buildings. No oil and/or gas wells shall be
drilled and no permit shall be issued for any wells to be drilled at any
location which is nearer than 150 feet of any residence or commercial building
without the applicant having first secured the written permission of the owner
or owners thereof.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 53.24 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Conduits on streets and alleys. No permittee shall make any excavation
or construct any lines for the conveyance of fuel, water or minerals on, under
or through the streets and alleys of the city without express permission of the
City Council in writing, and then only in strict compliance with the applicable
provisions of this subchapter, state law or other city ordinances, rules and
regulations.
   (B)   Deeper drilling.
      (1)   Once any well has either been completed as a producer or abandoned
as a dry hole, it shall be unlawful and deemed an offense for any person to
drill the well to a deeper depth than that reached in the prior drilling
operation without the permittee, as to the well, obtaining a supplemental
permit after filing a supplemental application with the City Secretary
specifying the following:
         (a)   The present condition of the well and the casing therein;
         (b)   The depth to which the well is proposed to be deepened;
         (c)   The proposed casing program to be used in connection with the
proposed deepening operation; and
         (d)   An evidence of adequate current tests showing that the casing
strings in the well meet the requirements of this subchapter, as provided for
in the case of drilling of the original well.
      (2)   In the event the City Council is satisfied that the well may be
deepened with the same degree of safety as existed in the original well, a
supplemental permit may be issued without additional filing fee to the
permittee, authorizing the deepening and operation of the well to the specified
depth as applied for. In any drilling or any completion of any deeper
production operations, the permittee shall comply with all the provisions
contained in this subchapter, and applicable to the drilling, completion and
operation of a well or wells.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.25 DRILLING PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful and deemed an offense for any person, acting either for
himself or herself or as agent, employee, independent contractor or servant of
any other person, to commence to drill, drill or operate any well within the
city, or to work upon or assist in any way in the prosecution or operation of
any well without a permit for the drilling and operation of the well having
first been issued by the authority of the City Council.
   (A)   Limitation. A separate permit shall be issued for the drilling of each
oil and gas well.
   (B)   Application and filing fee.
      (1)   Every application for a permit to drill and operate a well shall be
in writing, signed by the applicant or by some person duly authorized to sign
same on his or her behalf, and shall be filed with the City Secretary and be
accompanied by a filing fee of $1,500 in cash. Application shall include full
information, including the following:
         (a)   The date of the application;
         (b)   The name of the applicant;
         (c)   The address of the applicant;
         (d)   Proposed site of well, including:
            1.   Name of mineral owner;
            2.   Name of lease owner; and
            3.   Brief description of land.
         (e)   Type of derrick to be used;
         (f)   The proposed depth of the well; and
         (g)   A drilling permit from the State Railroad Commission.
      (2)   However, the City Council may, at its discretion, waive the filing
fee of $1,500 provided for herein. In addition to the permit fee, the applicant
shall reimburse the city for professional fees the city incurs from its
engineer or attorney reviewing the application.
   (C)   Issuance of permit. The City Council, within 20 days after the filing
of the application for a permit to drill and operate an oil and/or gas well,
shall determine whether or not the application complies in all respects with
the provisions of this subchapter and state law, and if it does, the City
Council shall then fix the amount of the principal of the required bond and
insurance. After the determination, the Council shall issue a permit for the
drilling and operation of the proposed well.
   (D)   Content of permit.
      (1)   Each permit issued under this subchapter shall:
         (a)   By inference have incorporated therein all the provisions of
this subchapter with the same force and effect as if this subchapter were
copied in the permit verbatim;
         (b)   Specify the well location with particularity to lot number,
block number, name of addition or subdivision or other available direct legal
descriptions;
         (c)   Contain and specify that terms of the permit shall be for a
period of one year from the date of the permit, and as long thereafter as the
permittee is engaged in drilling operations with no cessation of the operations
for more than 90 days; or oil or gas is produced in commercial quantities from
the well drilled pursuant to the permit; provided that, if at any time after
the discovery of oil or gas, the production thereof in commercial quantities
shall cease, the permit shall not terminate if the permittee shall commence
additional reworking operations resulting in the production of oil or gas
within 90 days thereafter, for so long thereafter as oil or gas is produced in
commercial quantities from the well;
         (d)   Contain and specify the conditions as are authorized by this
subchapter;
         (e)   Specify the total depth to which the well may be drilled, not
exceeding the projected depth;
         (f)   Contain and specify that no actual operation shall be commenced
until the permittee shall file and have approved an indemnity bond in the
designated principal amount as so determined by the City Council and
conditioned as specified by §
53.37; and
         (g)   Require that permittee be compelled to set surface casing at not
less than 750 feet depth and cement by circulation from top to bottom, and
exercise other necessary precautions to protect the city water supply source
from contamination.
      (2)   The permit, in two originals, shall be signed by the City Secretary
and, prior to delivery to the permittee, shall be signed by the permittee (with
one original to be retained by the city and one by the permittee); and when so
signed shall constitute the permittee’s drilling and operation license and the
contractual obligation of the permittee to comply with the terms of the permit
and the bond and this subchapter.
   (E)   Refusal or withdrawal of permit. If the permit for an oil and/or gas
well be refused, or if the applicant notifies the City Council in writing that
he or she does not elect to accept the permit as tendered and wishes to
withdraw his or her application, or if the bond of the applicant be not
approved and the applicant shall notify the City Council that he or she wishes
to withdraw his or her application, then, upon the happening of these events,
the cash deposit provided for and filed with the application shall be returned
to the applicant, except for $300 which shall be retained therefrom by the city
as a processing fee.
   (F)   Termination of permit. When a permit shall have been issued under the
provisions of this subchapter, the same shall terminate and become inoperative
without any action on the part of the city unless actual drilling of the well
shall have commenced within 90 days. The cessation of the drilling operation or
the cessation of the production of oil or gas from the well after production
shall have commenced for a like period shall operate to terminate and cancel
the permit. The well shall be considered as abandoned for all purposes of this
subchapter, and it shall be unlawful thereafter to continue the operation or
drilling of the well without the issuance of another permit.
   (G)   Revocation of permit. The City Council, at any regular or special
session or meeting thereof, may, providing ten-days’ notice has been given to
the permittee that the revocation is to be considered at the meeting, revoke or
suspend any permit under this subchapter under which drilling or producing
operations are being conducted in the event that the permittee thereof has
violated any provisions of the permit, the bond or applicable provision of this
subchapter, state law or city ordinances, rules or regulations. In the event
that the permit be revoked, the permittee may make application to the City
Council for a re-issuance of the permit, and the action of the City Council
thereon shall be final.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.26 DERRICKS AND RIGS.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to use or operate in
connection with the drilling or reworking of any well within the city any
wooden derrick or any steam-powered rig, and all engines used shall be equipped
with adequate mufflers approved by the Oil and Gas Inspector; or to permit any
drilling rig or derrick to remain on the premises or drilling site for a period
longer than 60 days after completion or abandonment of the well. At all times
from the start of erection of a derrick, or a mast, or a gin-pole, until the
well is abandoned and plugged or completed as a producer and enclosed with a
fence as herein provided, the permittee shall keep a watchperson on duty on the
premises at all times; however, it shall not be necessary to keep an extra
watchperson on duty on the premises when other workers of permittee are on the
premises.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.27 PITS.
   Steel slush pits shall be used in connection with all drilling and reworking
operations unless the City Council shall waive the requirements. The pits and
contents shall be removed from the premises and the drilling site within 30
days after completion of the well. No earthen slush pits shall be used.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.28 DRILLING OPERATIONS AND EQUIPMENT.
   All drilling and operation of any well performed by a permittee under this
subchapter shall be conducted in accordance with the best practices of any
reasonably prudent operator in the West Central Texas area. All casing, valves
and blow-out preventers, drilling fluid, tubing, bradenhead, Christmas tree and
well head connections shall be of the type and quality consistent with the best
practices of the reasonable and prudent operators. Setting and cementing casing
and running drill-stem tests shall be performed in a manner and at a time
consistent with the best practices of a reasonably prudent operation. Each
permittee shall observe and follow the recommendations and/or regulations of
the American Petroleum Institute and the State Railroad Commission.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.29 CONDITION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Sanitation and cleanliness. Premises shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition, free from rubbish of every character, to the satisfaction
of the Health Officer at all times while drilling operations or reworking
operations are being conducted, and as long thereafter as oil and/or gas is
being produced therefrom. It shall be unlawful for any permittee, his or her
agents, or employees, to permit within the city limits any mud, water, waste
oil, slush or other waste matter from any slush pit, storage tank or oil and/or
gas well located within the city, or from any premises within the city
developed or being developed for oil and/or gas purposes, in or on any alleys,
streets, lots, land or leases within the city.
   (B)   Fencing. Any person who completes any well as a producer shall have
the obligation to enclose the well, together with its surface facilities, with
a substantial concrete-block fence sufficiently high and properly built so as
to ordinarily keep persons and animals out of the enclosure, with all gates
thereto to be kept locked when the permittee or his or her employees are not
within the enclosure. It is provided, however, that in non-congested areas, the
Oil and Gas Inspector, at his or her discretion, may waive the requirements of
any fence or may designate the type of fence to be erected.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.30 MUFFLERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Motive power for all operations after completion of drilling
operations shall be electricity or properly muffled gas, gasoline or diesel
engines.
   (B)   The mufflers are to be approved by the Oil and Gas Inspector prior to
their use.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 53.31 STORAGE TANKS AND SEPARATORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to use, construct
or operate in connection with any producing well within the city any crude oil
storage tanks except to the extent of two steel tanks not exceeding 500-barrel
capacity each and so constructed and maintained as to be vapor tight. A
permittee may use, construct and operate a steel conventional separator and
such other steel tanks and appurtenances as are necessary for treating oil with
each of the facilities to be so constructed and maintained as to be vapor
tight. Each oil/gas separator shall be equipped with both a regulation
pressure-relief safety valve and a bursting head. All the tanks and separators
shall be placed underground.
   (B)   Any oil or gas produced may be transported outside the city limits by
underground pipe lines.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.32 NOISE AND OTHER NUISANCES.
   (A)   All oil operations, drilling and production operations shall be
conducted in such a manner as to eliminate, as far as practical, dust, noise,
vibration or noxious odors; and they shall be in accordance with the best
accepted practices incident to exploration for, drilling for and production of
oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances.
   (B)   Proven technological improvements in exploration, drilling and
production methods shall be adopted as they become available from time to time
if capable of reducing factors of nuisance and annoyance.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.33 FLARING OR BURNING OF GAS.
   No permittee engaged in the drilling operation of an oil and/or gas well
within the city shall permit gas to escape into the air or to flare or burn gas
from a torch or any similar means within the city, except that gas may be
burned for a limited time when necessary to complete an oil and/or gas well
upon the original completion or upon the re-completion of workover jobs upon
oil and/or gas wells so long as the same does not constitute a fire hazard to
the property of others within the vicinity of the oil and/or gas well.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.34 FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful to operate a well for oil and/or gas
without a four-inch header being laid over the top of the tanks and a two and
one-half-inch line extending from the tank battery to a point 200 feet from the
tank battery. The manner and method provided for connection at the point shall
be determined by the Fire Department so that foamite or other chemicals may be
pumped through the line and header to the tanks to extinguish any fire in the
tanks.
   (B)   Adequate fire-fighting apparatus and supplies, approved by the Fire
Department, shall be maintained on the drilling site at all times during
drilling and production operations. All machinery, equipment and installations
on all drilling sites within the city shall conform to the requirements as may
from time to time be issued by the Fire Department.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.35 ABANDONMENT AND PLUGGING.
   (A)   Whenever any well is abandoned, it shall be the obligation of the
permittee and the operator of the well to set a 200-foot cement plug in the
bottom of the surface casing with the bottom of the plug 100 feet below the
surface-casing section and the top of the plug 100 feet above the surface-
casing section; and they shall set a 50-foot cement plug in the top of the
surface casing.
   (B)   No surface or conductor string of casing may be pulled or removed from
the well. During the initial abandonment operation, it will be the obligation
of the permittee and the operator of the well to flood the well with mud-laden
fluid weighing not less than ten pounds per gallon, and the well will be filled
to the top with the mud-laden fluid at all times. Mud-laden fluid of the above
specifications will be left in the well-bore below and between cement plugs.
   (C)   Any additional provisions or precautionary measures prescribed by the
state or State Railroad Commission in connection with the abandonment and
plugging of a well shall be complied with by the permittee.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.36 DISPOSAL OF SALT WATER.
   The permittee shall make adequate provision for the disposal of all salt
water or other impurities which he or she may bring to the surface, the
disposal to be made in such manner as to not contaminate the water supply,
present or prospective, or to injure surface vegetation as the Oil and Gas
Inspector may direct.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 53.37 INSURANCE AND BOND.
   If a permit is issued by the Inspector under the terms of this subchapter
for the drilling and operation of a well, no actual drilling operations or site
preparation work shall be commenced until the permittee shall file with the
City Secretary a bond and certificate of insurance as follows.
   (A)   The bond shall be in the amount of no less than $100,000 and in a form
acceptable to the city. A reliable insurance company authorized to do business
as a surety in the State of Texas shall execute the bond. The bond shall be for
the benefit of the city and all persons concerned, conditioned that the
permittee will comply with the terms and conditions of this subchapter in the
drilling and operation of the well. The bond shall become effective on or
before the date the same is filed with the City Secretary and remain in force
and effect and on deposit for at least a period of six months subsequent to the
expiration of the term of the permit issued, and in addition the bond will be
conditioned that the permittee will promptly pay off fines, penalties and other
assessments imposed upon the permittee by reason of his or her breach of any of
the terms, provisions and conditions of this subchapter, and that the permittee
will promptly restore the streets and sidewalks and other public property of
the city, which may be disturbed or damaged in the operations, to their former
condition. The permittee will promptly clear all premises of all litter, trash,
waste and other substances used, allowed or occurring in the drilling or
producing operations, and will, after abandonment, grade, level and restore
such property to the same surface condition, as nearly as possible, as existed
when operations for the drilling of the wells were first commenced. The
permittee will indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and all liability
growing out of or attributable to the granting of the permit, including the
payment of any expenses incurred by the city for any legal action which may be
filed by either party hereto by reason of seeking or recovery of damages from
the city. If at any time, the Inspector shall deem any permittee’s bond to be
insufficient for any reason, they may require the permittee to make an
additional bond. If, after completion of a well, the permittee has complied
with all of the provisions of this subchapter, such as removing the derrick,
clearing the premises and the like, they may apply to the Inspector to have the
bond reduced to a sum of not less than $25,000 for the remainder of the time
the well produces without reworking. During reworking operations, the amount of
the bond shall be increased to the original amount. When the well or wells
covered by the bond have been properly abandoned in conformity with all
regulations of this subchapter, and in conformity with all regulations of the
Commission and notice to that effect has been received by the city, or upon
receipt of a satisfactory substitute, the irrevocable letter of credit or bond
issued in compliance with these regulations shall be terminated and canceled.
   (B)   In addition to the bond required in division (A) of this section, the
permittee shall carry a policy of standard comprehensive public liability
insurance, including contractual liability covering bodily injuries and
property damage, naming the permittee and the city as an additional insured,
issued by an insurance company authorized to do business within the state, such
policy in the aggregate shall provide for the following minimum coverages:
      (1)   Bodily injuries: $1,000,000, one person and $3,000,000, one
accident;
      (2)   Property damage: $1,000,000; and
      (3)   Excess or umbrella liability: $5,000,000 excess, if the operator
has a stand-alone environmental pollution liability (EPL) policy. Ten million
dollars ($10,000,000) excess, if the operator does not have a stand-alone EPL
policy. Coverage must include an endorsement for sudden or accidental
pollution. If seepage and pollution coverage is written on a “claims made”
basis, the operator must maintain continuous coverage and purchase extended
coverage period insurance when necessary.
   (C)   Environmental pollution liability coverage.
      (1)   Operator shall purchase and maintain in force for the duration of
the oil, gas, combined well permit, insurance for environmental pollution
liability applicable to bodily injury, property damage, including loss of use
of damaged property or of property that has not been physically injured or
destroyed; clean up costs; and defense, including costs and expenses incurred
in the investigation, defense or settlement of claims; all in connection with a
loss arising from the insured site.
      (2)   Coverage shall be maintained in an amount of at least $1,000,000
per loss, with an annual aggregate of at least $10,000,000.
      (3)   Coverage shall apply to sudden and accidental pollution conditions
resulting from the escape or release of smoke, vapors, fumes, acids, alkalis,
toxic chemicals, liquids or gases, waste material or other irritants,
contaminants or pollutants.
      (4)   The operator shall maintain continuous coverage and shall purchase
extended coverage period insurance when necessary. The extended coverage period
insurance must provide that any retroactive date applicable to coverage under
the policy precedes the effective date of the issuance of the permit by the
city.
   (D)   The permittee shall file with the City Secretary certificates of such
insurance coverage as stated in division (A) of this section, and shall obtain
the written approval thereof by the City Secretary, who shall act thereon
within ten days from the date of such tiling. Such insurance policy shall not
be cancelled without written notice to the City Secretary at least 30 days
prior to the effective date of such cancellation. If the insurance policy is
cancelled, the permit granted shall terminate, and the permittee’s rights to
operate under the permit shall cease until the permittee files additional
insurance as provided in this section. If after completion of a well, permittee
has complied with all provisions of this subchapter, such as removing dirt, put
up fencing, clearing the premises and the like, the permittee may apply to the
Inspector to have the insurance policies reduced as followed:
      (1)   Bodily injuries: $250,000, one person and $500,000, one accident;
and
      (2)   Property damage: $250,000.
   (E)   The City Council may elect to make an exception to the requirements of
this section when in their opinion the intent and purpose for the requirements
of the bond and insurance can be assured by any of the following means:
      (1)   Acceptance of a guaranty of indemnity to the city in lieu of bond
and a plan of self insurance in the case of financially responsible operators;
      (2)   Acceptance of a blanket bond and a single policy of insurance to
cover all operations of the permittee within the city limits; or
      (3)   Application of bond and insurance requirements acceptable to the
City Council.
   (F)   Whenever the oil and gas inspector finds that a default has occurred
in the performance of any requirement or condition imposed by this subchapter,
a written notice shall be given to the operator. Such notice shall specify the
work to be done, the estimated cost and the period of time deemed by the
Inspector to be reasonably necessary for the completion of such work. After
receipt of such notice, the operator shall, within the time therein specified,
either cause or require the work to be performed, or failing to do so, shall
pay over to the city 125% of the estimated cost of doing the work as set forth
in the notice. In no event, however, shall the cure period be less than thirty
30 days unless the failure presents a risk or imminent destruction of property
or injury to persons or unless the failure involves the operator’s failure to
provide periodic reports as required by this subchapter. The city shall be
authorized to draw against any bond to recover such amount due from the
operator. Upon receipt of such monies, the city shall proceed by such mode as
deemed convenient to cause the required work to be performed and completed, but
no liability shall be incurred other than for the expenditure of the sum in
hand. In the event that the well has not been properly abandoned under the
regulations of the Commission, such additional money may be demanded from the
operator as is necessary to properly plug and abandon the well and restore the
drill site in conformity with the regulations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. 2010-007, passed 7-20-2010)
CHAPTER 54: DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
Section
   
54.01   Adoption
§ 54.01 ADOPTION.
   The City Drought Contingency Plan, attached to the ordinance codified herein
as Exhibit "A" and made part hereof for all purposes, be, and the same is
hereby, adopted as the official policy of the city.
(Ord. 2000-004, passed 8-8-2000)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Emergency Vehicles
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Operation
Commercial Vehicles
   
70.15   Findings of fact
   
70.16   Definitions
   
70.17   Parking along State Highway 31
   
70.18   Parking and fishing along portions of Leagueline Road (FM 1667)
prohibited
   
70.19   Parking along portions of Oak Street and First Street prohibited
   
70.20   Commercial vehicles on residential streets
   
70.21   Parking in residential areas
   
70.22   Parking on private property
   
70.23   Fire hydrants
   
70.24   Exceptions
   
70.25   Enforcement
   
70.26   Posting of notice
   
70.27   Damage to public property
   
70.28   Towing and removal
Abandoned and Junked Vehicles
   
70.35   Definitions
   
70.36   Enforcement
   
70.37   Authority to take possession of abandoned motor vehicles
   
70.38   Notice of impoundment
   
70.39   Use of abandoned motor vehicles
   
70.40   Auction sales; disposition of proceeds generally
   
70.41   Custody, reports and proceeds of abandoned motor vehicles
   
70.42   Disposal of abandoned motor vehicle to demolisher
   
70.43   Declaration of junked vehicles as public nuisance
   
70.44   Procedures for abatement of public nuisance
   
70.45   Disposal of junked vehicles
Vehicle Load Limits
   
70.55   Findings of fact and applicability
   
70.56   Definitions
   
70.57   Vehicle load limits
   
70.58   Permit
   
70.59   Compliance with law
   
70.60   Public property
   
70.61   Revocation of permit
   
70.62   Exceptions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets, Rights-of-Way and Other City Facilities and Lands, see
Chapter 92
   Traffic Schedules, see
Chapter 71
EMERGENCY VEHICLES
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department or volunteer
fire company, police vehicles and also ambulances and emergency vehicles of
municipal departments or public service corporations as are designated or
authorized by the City Council.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways, streets or alleys which join one another at or approximately
at right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways, streets or alleys joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the highway, street or
alley.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway, street or alley improved, designated or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   STREET, HIGHWAY or ALLEY. The entire width between the boundary lines of
every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, street or alley, except devices moved
by human power, or used exclusively upon stationery rails or tracks.
(Ord. 58-2, passed 8-30-1958)
§ 70.02 OPERATION.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, equipped
with at least one lighted lamp exhibiting red light, visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle,
or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust, whistle or bell,
the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to the
right-hand edge or curb of the roadway, clear any intersection, and shall stop
and remain in the position, until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed
and has reached a point at least 300 feet beyond the place where the driver has
stopped the vehicle, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
(Ord. 58-2, passed 8-30-1958) Penalty, see §
70.99
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
§ 70.15 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The findings and recitations set out in the ordinance codified herein are
found to be true and correct and they are hereby adopted by the City Council
and made a part hereof for all purposes as findings of fact.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2015-005, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 70.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following terms shall have the
meaning and definition as follows:
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle weighing more than 12,000 pounds, that
is not a passenger car or light pickup truck.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Motor vehicle as defined in Tex. Trans. Code,
Title 7, Subtitle A, Chapter 501.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, firm, corporation, or other business entity.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Those areas within the city limits designated for
residential use according to the city’s zoning ordinance.
   RESIDENTIAL STREET. Those streets, boulevards, avenues, or alleys within the
city limits located within the city's residential area.
   VEHICLE LOAD LIMIT. Any axle or gross weight exceeding 12,000 pounds.
(Ord. 97-03, passed 7-8-1997; Ord. 2009-008, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 2010-003,
passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2015-005, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 70.17 PARKING ALONG STATE HIGHWAY 31.
   Parking on the right-of-way of State Highway 31, McEntire (FM 764), and Lone
Star Road (FM 764) within the city shall be regulated and controlled as
follows:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any
vehicle on the paved portion of State Highway 31, McEntire (FM 764) and Lone
Star Road (FM 764), within the city, save and except along that portion, if
any, designated by lawfully authorized signs as an area in which parking is
permitted.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any
vehicle upon the right-of-way of any state highway, McEntire (FM 764) and Lone
Star Road (FM 764).
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any
vehicle within 14 feet from the paved portion of the following designated
roadways:
      (1)   The east and west side of McEntire (FM 764) from the intersection
of Lawrence Street and McEntire (FM 764) to the intersection of McEntire (FM
764) and Lone Star Road (FM 764); and
      (2)   The north and south side of Lone Star (FM 764) from the
intersection of McEntire (FM 764) and Lone Star (FM 764) to the intersection of
Lone Star Road (FM 764) and Leagueline Road (FM 1667).
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any
vehicle upon the right-of-way of the following sections of right-of-way of
State Highway 31 (SH 31):
      (1)   The south side of SH 31 from a point 216 feet west of the
intersection of SH 31 and Park Street (FM 764), to said intersection;
      (2)   The south side of SH 31 from a point 102 feet west of the
intersection of SH 31 and Trotman Street, to said intersection;
      (3)   The south side of SH 31 from a point 116 feet west of the
intersection of SH 31 and Lincoln Street, to said intersection;
      (4)   The south side of SH 31 and Leagueline Road (FM 1667), to said
intersection;
      (5)   The north side of SH 31 from a point 177 feet east of the
intersection of SH 31 and Leagueline Road (FM 1667), to said intersection;
      (6)   The north side of SH 31 from a point 110 feet east of the
intersection of SH 31 and Church Street, to said intersection;
      (7)   The north side of SH 31 from a point 138 feet east of the
intersection of SH 31 and Forehand Road, to said intersection;
      (8)   The north side of SH 31 from a point 185 feet east of the
intersection of SH 31 and Highway 274, to said intersection;
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2015-005, passed 3-17-2015) Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 70.18 PARKING AND FISHING ALONG PORTIONS OF LEAGUELINE ROAD (FM 1667)
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any vehicle or
fish upon Leagueline Road (FM 1667) during the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
in areas where such activity is prohibited by a properly posted sign. These
prohibitions shall include any shoulder or right-of-way along such designated
roadway.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2015-005, passed 3-17-2015) Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 70.19 PARKING ALONG PORTIONS OF OAK STREET AND FIRST STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any vehicle or
fish upon Oak Street and First Street in areas where such activity is
prohibited by a properly posted sign. These prohibitions shall include any
shoulder or right-of-way along such designated roadway.
(Ord. 2015-005, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 70.20 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   Commercial vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
any commercial vehicle, upon any street, boulevard, avenue, or alley within the
limits of the city, except any designated United States or state highway or a
designated truck route; provided that any such commercial vehicle may leave any
designated United States or state highway or a designated truck route and
travel on any street, boulevard, avenue or alley within the city for the
purpose of providing emergency, municipal or public utility services, or
delivering or picking up goods, wares, materials, equipment, vehicles, or
merchandise.
   (B)   Truck routes established. Every United States and state highway within
the limits of the city is hearby designated as a truck route under the terms of
this section.
   (C)   Certain diesel powered vehicles. Diesel powered truck tractors and/or
semi-trailers shall not be operated on any residential street.
(Ord. 97-03, passed 7-8-1997; Ord. 2009-008, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 2015-005,
passed 3-17-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   Over-night parking prohibited. Commercial vehicles shall not be parked
and left overnight upon any public street or public way in the city.
   (B)   Parking in residential areas prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person or any owner to leave, park or stand any truck-tractor, semi-trailer or
bus exceeding 12,000 pounds, upon any public street or highway within any area
zoned as residential according to the zoning ordinance of the city. This
section shall not be construed as to prevent the parking or standing of the
above described vehicles in said areas for the purpose of expeditiously loading
or unloading passengers, freight or merchandise.
(Ord. 97-03, passed 7-8-1997; Ord. 2009-008, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 2015-005,
passed 3-17-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer on any
private property without the consent of the owner of the property.
(Ord. 97-03, passed 7-8-1997; Ord. 2009-008, passed 4-21-2009;. Ord. 2010-003,
passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2015-005, passed 3-17-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   The term VEHICLE, as used in this section, shall mean every device in,
upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon
a highway, street or alley, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationery rails or tracks.
   (B)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
park or stop any vehicle, or cause any vehicle to be parked or stopped within
ten linear feet of any fire plug within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 58-3, passed 8-30-1958) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following vehicles are exempt from the terms of this subchapter while
engaged in the listed activity:
   (A)   Emergency vehicles (as defined by state law) are exempt from the terms
of this subchapter when responding to an emergency call, or when in pursuit of
an actual emergency, and can exercise the privileges set forth in the state
laws;
   (B)   Vehicles being used to provide any municipal service such as
installation, repair or maintenance of any public street, asset or property,
collection of garbage, grounds keeping, etc; and
   (C)   Vehicles being used to install, repair or maintain any public service
or utility such as telephone, electricity, cable television, gas, water or
sewer line.
(Ord. 97-03, passed 7-8-1997; Ord. 2009-008, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 2015-005,
passed 3-17-2015)
§ 70.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Chief of Police and members of the Police Department, both regular and
reserve officers, are empowered to enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 97-03, passed 7-8-1997; Ord. 2009-008, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 2015-005,
passed 3-17-2015)
§ 70.26 POSTING OF NOTICE.
   The City Administrator is hereby directed to take such actions as are
reasonably necessary to ensure signs are posted reflecting the unlawful use and
operation of roadways as provided herein, sufficiently posted to notify to
reasonably prudent and observant operator, and to ensure that all departments
of the city requiring notice of the requirements hereunder are duly notified
and provided the necessary information to effectuate the change.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2015-005, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 70.27 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be illegal for any person to knowingly or intentionally damage
public streets, roadways or any sign posted by the city for the regulation of
traffic. Any person who knowingly, intentionally or recklessly causes damage to
public streets, roadways or any sign posted thereon for the regulation of
traffic and roadways shall be responsible for the costs of repair.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2015-005, passed 3-17-2015) Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 70.28 TOWING AND REMOVAL.
   Any vehicle, semitrailer, or commercial vehicle which shall be or remain
standing or parked in violation of this subchapter may be removed by or upon
order of a police officer, if such vehicle is left unattended and constitutes a
safety hazard or an obstruction to traffic, or such vehicle or trailer is
parked in a manner to block the entrance to any private driveway, or such
vehicle or trailer constitutes a hazard by reason of any catastrophe, emergency
or unusual circumstance, or the safety of the vehicle or trailer is imperiled.
A vehicle or trailer that is removed or towed pursuant to this section shall be
stored in a privately operated garage or storage yard, or other place
designated by the city. The owner of such vehicle shall be responsible for the
payment of any fees incurred for the towing and/or storage of said vehicle.
(Ord. 97-03, passed 7-8-1997; Ord. 2009-008, passed 4-21-2009;. Ord. 2010-003,
passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2015-005, passed 3-17-2015)
ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
§ 70.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Inoperative and over five years old and is left unattended on
public property for more than 48 hours;
      (2)   A motor vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for
a period of more than 48 hours; or
      (3)   A motor vehicle that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of the property for more than 48
hours.
   ANTIQUE AUTO. A passenger car or truck that was manufactured in 1925 or
before or a passenger car or truck that is at least 35 years old.
   COLLECTOR. The owner of one or more antique or special interest vehicles who
collects, purchases, acquires, trades or disposes of special interest or
antique vehicles or parts of them for personal use in order to restore,
preserve and maintain an antique or special interest vehicle for historic
interest.
   DEMOLISHER. A person whose business is to convert a motor vehicle into
processed scrap or scrap metal or to otherwise wreck or dismantle a motor
vehicle.
   GARAGEKEEPER. An owner or operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility or establishment for the servicing, repair or
maintenance of a motor vehicle.
   JUNKED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle as defined in Tex. Trans. Code, Ch. 683,
as amended from time to time, which is a vehicle that is self-propelled and:
      (1)   Does not have lawfully attached to it:
         (a)   An unexpired license plate; and
         (b)   A valid motor vehicle inspection certificate; and
      (2)   Is:
         (a)   Wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled, or discarded; or
         (b)   Inoperable and has remained inoperable for more than:
            1.   Seventy-two consecutive hours, if the vehicle is on public
property; or
            2.   Thirty consecutive days, if the vehicle is on private
property.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle subject to registration pursuant to the
State Certificate of Title Act, Tex. Trans. Code, Ch. 501.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the city or the Department of
Public Safety.
   SPECIAL INTEREST VEHICLE. A motor vehicle of any age that has not been
altered or modified from original manufacturer's specifications and, because of
its historic interest, is being preserved by hobbyists.
   STORAGE FACILITY. A garage, parking lot or any type of facility or
establishment for the servicing, repairing, storing or parking of motor
vehicles.
(Ord. 96-06, passed 12-10-1996)
§ 70.36 ENFORCEMENT.
   The administration of this subchapter shall be the responsibility of the
Chief of Police or the Department, officer or employee of the city designated
by the City Council. Whoever is so authorized may enter upon private property
for the purposes specified in this subchapter to examine motor vehicles or
parts thereof, obtain information as to the identity of motor vehicles and to
remove or cause the removal of a motor vehicle or parts thereof declared to be
a nuisance pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 96-06, passed 12-10-1996)
§ 70.37 AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The Police Department is authorized to take into custody any abandoned motor
vehicle found on public or private property.
(Ord. 96-06, passed 12-10-1996)
§ 70.38 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Police Department shall notify, within ten days, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, the last known registered owner and all lienholders
of record pursuant to the Certificate of Title Act (Tex. Trans. Code, Ch. 501)
that it has taken into custody an abandoned motor vehicle under the provisions
of this section. The notice shall describe the year, make, model and vehicle
identification number of the abandoned motor vehicle, set forth the location of
the facility where the motor vehicle is being held, inform the owner and any
lienholders of his, her or their right to reclaim the motor vehicle not later
than the twentieth day after the date of the notice, on payment of all towing,
preservation and storage charges resulting from placing the vehicle in custody.
The notice shall state that the failure of the owner or lienholders to exercise
his, her or their right to reclaim the vehicle within the time provided shall
be deemed a waiver by the owner and all lienholders of all right, title and
interest in the vehicle and his, her or their consent to the sale of the
abandoned motor vehicle at a public auction to be held by the city. If the
identity of the last registered owner cannot be determined, if the registration
contains no address for the owner, or if it is impossible to determine with
reasonable certainty the identity and addresses of all lienholders, notice by
one publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
motor vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient notice.
(Ord. 96-06, passed 12-10-1996)
§ 70.39 USE OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   If an abandoned motor vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided in §
70.38, the Police Department may use the abandoned motor vehicle for Police
Department purposes if the use is cost-effective.
   (B)   If the Police Department discontinues use of the abandoned motor
vehicle, the Police Department shall auction the abandoned motor vehicle, as
provided herein.
(Ord. 96-06, passed 12-10-1996)
§ 70.40 AUCTION SALES; DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS GENERALLY.
   (A)   If an abandoned motor vehicle has not been reclaimed within 20 days
after the date of notice and payment of all towing, preservation and storage
charges resulting from its impoundment, the Police Department shall sell the
abandoned motor vehicle at a public auction. Proper notice of the public
auction shall be given and, in the event a vehicle is to be sold in
satisfaction of a garagekeeper's lien, the garagekeeper shall be notified of
the time and place of the auction.
   (B)   The Police Department shall furnish a sales receipt for each vehicle
to the purchaser thereof at the public auction. The proceeds shall be applied
first to reimburse the Police Department for the expenses of the auction, costs
of towing, preserving and storing the vehicle, and all notice and publication
costs, and any remainder from the proceeds of the sale shall be held for the
owner of the vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be
deposited in a special fund which shall remain available for the payment of
auction, towing, preserving, storage and all notice and publication costs which
result from placing other abandoned vehicles in custody, whenever the proceeds
from a sale of other abandoned motor vehicles are insufficient to meet these
expenses and costs.
(Ord. 96-06, passed 12-10-1996)
§ 70.41 CUSTODY, REPORTS AND PROCEEDS OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Police Department, upon receipt of a report from a garagekeeper
that a motor vehicle has been deemed abandoned pursuant to Tex. Trans. Code,
Ch. 683, shall follow the notification procedures set forth in §
70.38 for the giving of notice to owners and lienholder of abandoned vehicles,
except that custody of the vehicle shall remain with the garagekeeper until
after the notification requirements have been satisfied.
   (B)   A fee of $5 shall accompany the report of the garagekeeper and the fee
shall be retained by the Police Department receiving the report and used to
defray the cost of notification or other costs incurred in the disposition of
the vehicles, and the fee shall be deposited in the General Fund of the city.
Abandoned vehicles left in storage facilities, which are not reclaimed after
notice is given in accordance with this section, shall be taken into custody by
the Police Department and sold at auction, as in the cases of other abandoned
motor vehicles. The proceeds of the sale shall first be applied to the
garagekeeper's charges for servicing, storage and repair; provided, however,
that, the Police Department shall retain an amount of 2% of the gross proceeds
of the sale for each vehicle auctioned, but in no event shall it retain less
than $10, to be used to defray expenses of custody and auction.
(Ord. 96-06, passed 12-10-1996)
§ 70.42 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE TO DEMOLISHER.
   The Police Department is authorized to apply to the State Department of
Highways and Public Transportation for authority to sell, give away or dispose
of any abandoned motor vehicle in its possession to a demolisher in accordance
with the provisions of Tex. Trans. Code, Ch. 683.
(Ord. 96-06, passed 12-10-1996)
§ 70.43 DECLARATION OF JUNKED VEHICLES AS PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Junked vehicles which are located in any place where they are readily
visible from a public place or public right-of-way are detrimental to the
safety and welfare of the general public, reduce the value of private property,
invite vandalism, create fire hazards constitute an attractive nuisance
creating a hazard to the health and safety of minors and are detrimental to the
economical welfare of the state by producing urban blight which is adverse to
the maintenance and continuing development of the city, and the vehicles are
declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 96-06, passed 12-10-1996)
§ 70.44 PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The Police Department, when desiring to remove and dispose of junked
vehicles as public nuisances from private property, public property or public
rights-of-way, shall comply with the following procedures.
   (A)   A written notice stating the nature of the public nuisance on private
property and that it must be removed and abated within ten days, and further
stating that a request for a hearing must be made before the expiration of the
ten-day period, the notice must be mailed, by certified mail with a five-day
return receipt requested, to the owner of the junked vehicle, any lienholder of
record and the owner or the occupant of the private premises whereupon the
public nuisance exists. If the notice is returned undelivered by the United
States Post Office, official action to abate the nuisance shall be continued to
a date not less than ten days from the date of the return.
   (B)   The requirements of division (A) above shall also apply to the case of
a public nuisance on public property and similar notice shall be sent to the
owner or the occupant of the public premises and to the owner or the occupant
of the premises adjacent to the public property whereupon the public nuisance
exists.
   (C)   Once a vehicle has been removed under the provisions of this section,
it shall not be reconstructed or made operable.
   (D)   Where a hearing is requested, by the owner or occupant of the public
or private premises or by the owner or occupant of the premises adjacent to the
public right-of-way on which the vehicle is located, within ten days after
service of the notice to abate the nuisance, a public hearing prior to the
removal of the vehicle or part thereof as a public nuisance must be held before
the Municipal Judge of the city. Should the Municipal Judge find that the
vehicle is a public nuisance as defined herein, he or she shall enter an order
requiring the removal of the vehicle or part thereof from the public or private
property or public right-of-way where it is situated, and the order shall
include a description of the vehicle and the correct identification number and
license number of the vehicle, if available.
   (E)   The Police Department shall give notice to the State Department of
Highways and Public Transportation within five days after the date of removal
of the vehicle, identifying the vehicle or part thereof.
   (F)   The procedures set out in this section shall not apply to a vehicle or
part thereof which is completely enclosed within a building in a lawful manner
where it is not visible from the street or other public or private property, a
vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner on private
property in connection with the business of a licensed vehicle dealer or a
junkyard, or to unlicensed, operable or inoperable antique and special interest
vehicles stored by a collector on his property; provided that, the vehicle and
outdoor storage areas are maintained in such a manner that they do not
constitute a health hazard and are screened from ordinary public view by means
of a fence, rapidly growing trees, shrubbery or other appropriate means.
   (G)   The administration of the procedures of this section shall be carried
out by regularly salaried, full-time employees of the city, except that the
removal of vehicles or parts thereof from property may be accomplished by any
other duly authorized person, including wrecker service operators within the
city who have a valid and subsisting contract.
(Ord. 96-06, passed 12-10-1996)
§ 70.45 DISPOSAL OF JUNKED VEHICLES.
   Junked vehicles or parts thereof may be disposed of by removal to a
scrapyard, demolisher or any to suitable site operated by the city for
processing as scrap or salvage.
(Ord. 96-06, passed 12-10-1996)
VEHICLE LOAD LIMITS
§ 70.55 FINDINGS OF FACT AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Findings of fact. The findings and recitations set out in this
subchapter are found to be true and correct and they are hereby adopted by the
City Council and made a part hereof for all purposes as findings of fact. The
City Council hereby further finds and determines that the rules, regulations,
terms, conditions, provisions and requirements of this subchapter are
reasonable and necessary to protect the public health, safety and quality of
life.
   (B)   Applicability. This subchapter applies to the streets and rights-of-
way located within and adjacent to the Trinidad Business Park, being more
particularly shown and described in the map attached to Ordinance 2009-009 as
Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein for all purposes.
(Ord. 2009-009, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 70.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
(Ord. 2009-009, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 70.57 VEHICLE LOAD LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle on any
public street or right-of-way within the area to which this subchapter applies,
other than a designated United States or state highway, which has a gross
weight in excess of 40,000 pounds, without having first obtained a permit
therefore from the city.
(Ord. 2009-009, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.58 PERMIT.
   (A)   A person who wishes to apply for a permit under this subchapter shall
submit a completed application on the form provided the city to the City
Administrator. Such application shall contain:
      (1)   The name, address, phone and fax number of the person requesting
the permit;
      (2)   The name, address, phone, and fax number of the owner of the motor
vehicle or vehicles to be operated under the permit, if different from the
person requesting the permit;
      (3)   The make, model, license number, weight (loaded and unloaded) of
each vehicle to be operated under the permit;
      (4)   The dates for which a permit is requested;
      (5)   The proposed number of trips per day for each vehicle;
      (6)   Proof that each person who will operate a motor vehicle under the
permit holds insurance compliant with the Texas Transportation Code;
      (7)   The route of travel in the city; and
      (8)   Any other information required to be provided by the city.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a permit fee of $150, and any
fees charged to the city by the City Engineer to review the application.
   (C)   Before the City Administrator shall issue a permit under this
subchapter, the applicant shall file with the city a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the city in the amount of no less than $50,000 conditioned that
the owner of the motor vehicle will pay the city any damage to a city street or
city property caused by the operation of the motor vehicle(s). The bond shall
be released only upon inspection and determination by the City Engineer that
the vehicle did not damage city streets or property.
   (D)   The City Administrator may issue a permit if the motor vehicle weight
and proposed number of trips per day will not exceed the design standards for
the street(s) to be used as determined by the City Engineer, taking into
account any other permits that may have been issued for the same dates and
routes. The permit shall be issued for a maximum period of 30 days. The permit
shall list the motor vehicles authorized to operate under the permit, the
authorized number of trips per day, the date during which the permit is in
effect, and any other conditions of the permit.
   (E)   The applicant may appeal a denial of a permit application to the City
Council by submitting written notice to the City Administrator within ten days
of the permit denial. The appeal shall be scheduled for the next regular City
Council meeting for which notice may be lawfully provided.
   (F)   The permit holder shall keep a written log of the number of trips per
day for each motor vehicle authorized under the permit and shall submit the log
daily to the City Administrator.
(Ord. 2009-009, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 70.59 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.
   The permittee and his or her employees, contractors, and agents shall comply
with all applicable local, state, and federal regulations while operating the
motor vehicle subject to the permit, including the Texas Transportation Code
and posted speed limits.
(Ord. 2009-009, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 70.60 PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All facilities, streets, sidewalks or other structures or property damaged,
altered or injured, in any fashion, shall be restored with similar material and
workmanship to that existing before the same was damaged, altered or injured
through any actions of the permit holder or any agent, employee or contractor
thereof, or a driver of a motor vehicle identified in a permit. All work shall
be done to the satisfaction of the city. Acceptance of a permit provided for in
this subchapter shall be conclusive evidence that the person to whom such
permit is issued agrees to make good and pay all such damages upon demand
therefore made by the city.
(Ord. 2009-009, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 70.61 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The City Administrator may revoke a permit issued under this subchapter if
the permit holder, or the permit holder's employee, agent, or contractor, fails
to comply with the subchapter or a condition of the permit. The permit holder
may appeal revocation of a permit to the City Council by submitting a written
notice of appeal to the City Secretary within ten days of the permit
revocation. The appeal shall be scheduled for the next regular City Council
meeting for which notice may be lawfully provided.
(Ord. 2009-009, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 70.62 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any vehicle operated by the city.
   (B)   Any vehicle operated by the city, or a private contractor under a
contract for street maintenance or street construction with the city, while
engaged in street maintenance or street construction.
   (C)   Emergency vehicles of the city, or bona fide emergency vehicles from
another entity authorized to operate such vehicles.
   (D)   School buses under the jurisdiction of the Trinidad Independent School
District.
(Ord. 2009-009, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the terms of §
70.02 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be assessed a fine of not less than $1, nor more than $100.
   (C)   (1)   Any person convicted of violating §§
70.15 through
70.28, except §
70.23, shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
in an amount not to exceed $500. Each day the violation exists shall constitute
a separate offense. Such penalty shall be in addition to all the other remedies
provided herein. Evidence of a culpable mental state shall not be required to
establish a violation of §§
70.15 through
70.28, except §
70.23.
      (2)   In any prosecution charging a violation of §§
70.15 through
70.28, except §
70.23, governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of §§
70.15 through
70.28, except §
70.23, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was, at
the time of such parking, the registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute
in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle
was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for
the time during which, such violation occurred.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate §
70.23 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
assessed a fine of not less than $1, nor more than $100.
   (E)   If the nuisance is not removed and abated, as per §§
70.35 through
70.45, and a hearing is not requested within the ten-day period provided, a
complaint may be filed in Municipal Court for the violation of maintaining a
public nuisance. Any person found guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, as
defined herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a fine not
to exceed $200 for each offense and the Municipal Court shall order removal and
abatement of the nuisance.
   (F)   Any person violating any provision of §§
70.55 through
70.62 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day, or portion thereof,
during which any violation of any provision of conviction of any such
violation, such person shall be punishable by a fine or not more than $500.
Proof of a culpable mental state shall not be required to establish a violation
of §§
70.55 through
70.62.
(Ord. 58-2, passed 8-30-1958; Ord. 58-3, passed 8-30-1958; Ord. 96-06, passed
12-10-1996; Ord. 97-03, passed 7-8-1997; Ord. 2009-008, passed 4-21-2009; Ord.
2009-009, passed 5-18-2009; Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2015-005,
passed 3-17-2015)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   One-way streets
   
II.   Speed limits
   
III.   Road closures
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The enforcement of a traffic control sign directing traffic to travel
one way on West Eaton Street, during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and 3:
00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. is hereby authorized.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a motor
vehicle in an east-bound direction on West Eaton Street during the hours of 7:
00 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. during school hours. Any person
who violates this schedule or part thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 9-16-2003)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
Street Location Speed Limit Penalty Ord. No. Date Passed
Street  Location          Speed Limit       Penalty        Ord. No. Date Passed
        From SH 31 to a
FM 764  point 0.970 mile  30 mph            $200           110      9-15-1981
        south
        From THD milepost
        0.700 (near
FM 764  Austin Street) to 20 mph, when      $200           110      9-15-1981
        milepost 0.974    signed for school
        (near Calder
        Street)
        From 0.970 mile
        south of SH 31 to
        a point 1.897
FM 764  miles south of SH 40 mph            $200           110      9-15-1981
        31, the point
        being the
        junction with FM
        1667
        From the junction
        with SH 31 to a
FM 1667 point 1.776 miles 60 mph                           30       3-3-1970
        south, the point
        being the south
        city limit
        From the east
SH 31   city limit to a   65 mph            $200           98-0210A 2-10-1998
        point 1.103 miles
        west
        From present west                   First offense:
        city limit to a                     $100; second,
SH 31   point 0.400 mile  60 mph            subsequent     67-3     5-2-1967
        east of present                     offense: $200
        west city limit
        From a point
        0.400 mile east                     First offense:
        of present west                     $100; second,
SH 31   city limit to a   55 mph            subsequent     67-3     5-2-1967
        point 1.400-miles                   offense: $200
        out of present
        west city limit
        From the west
SH 31   city limit to a   55 mph            $200           -        3-13-1984
        point 0.500 mile
        east
        From a point
        0.500 mile east
        of the west city
SH 31   limit to a point  50 mph            $200           -        3-13-1984
        1.125 miles east
        of the west city
        limit
        From a point
        1.125 mile east
        of the west city
SH 31   limit to a point  55 mph            $200           -        3-13-1984
        2.494 miles east,
        the point being
        the east city
        limit
 
SCHEDULE III. ROAD CLOSURES.
   (A)   Closure of a segment of Boatwright Road. The closing of the section of
the street right-of-way commonly known as Boatwright Road located between and
perpendicular to Forehand Road and Highway 274 in Trinidad, Henderson County,
Texas (the Road), is hereby ratified, confirmed and approved. The Road is
closed to motor vehicle traffic, pedestrian traffic, and any and all
conveyances of any nature or kind whatsoever other than emergency services
personnel and vehicles and city personnel, agents, or contractors.
   (B)   Barricades. The placement and installation of suitable barriers and
traffic control to prevent motor vehicle and pedestrian access to the Road are
hereby confirmed, ratified, and authorized by the City Council.
   (C)   Rights retained. It is not the intent or purpose of this ordinance,
and this schedule shall not be construed, to:
      (1)   Abandon any rights, title or interest of the city in and to the
Road; or to
      (2)   Release or waive any license, property interest or legal right of
the city whatsoever. This ordinance is and shall be construed as an exercise of
the city's police power for the benefit of the public health and safety, and
not as any release, conveyance or waiver of any legal or property right of the
city.
   (D)    Damage to public property; hindering access. It shall be illegal for
any person to knowingly or intentionally damage, tamper with, remove, or
replace any barrier, traffic control device, lock or sign erected by the city
pursuant this schedule. Any person who knowingly, intentionally or recklessly
causes damage to or removal of any barrier, traffic control device, lock or
sign erected by the city pursuant to this schedule shall be responsible for the
costs of replacement and/or repair. It shall further be illegal for any person
to knowingly or intentionally hinder, impede, or prevent access by the city or
the city's designee to the road.
   (E)   Violation and penalty. It shall be unlawful for any person, except a
person authorized by the city, to access or transverse the road by motor
vehicle, by foot, or by any other means. Any person who violates any of the
provisions of this schedule shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500. Each day of
violation and each incident of violation of this ordinance shall constitute a
separate offense. Allegations and evidence of culpable mental state are not
required for proof of an offense under this schedule.
(Ord. 2008-015, passed 12-16-2008)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   Parking on the right-of-way of State Highway 31, McEntire (FM 764), and Lone
Star Road (FM 764) within the city shall be regulated and controlled as
follows:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any
vehicle on the paved portion of State Highway 31, McEntire (FM 764) and Lone
Star Road (FM 764), within the city, save and except along that portion, if
any, designated by lawfully authorized signs as an area in which parking is
permitted.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any
vehicle upon the right-of-way of any state highway, McEntire (FM 764) and Lone
Star Road (FM 764).
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any
vehicle within 14 feet from the paved portion of the following designated
roadways:
      (1)   The east and west side of McEntire (FM 764) from the intersection
of Lawrence Street and McEntire (FM 764) to the intersection of McEntire (FM
764) and Lone Star Road (FM 764);
      (2)   The north and south side of Lone Star (FM 764) from the
intersection of McEntire (FM 764) and Lone Star (FM 764) to the intersection of
Lone Star Road (FM 764) and Leagueline Road (FM 1667).
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any
vehicle upon the right-of-way of the following sections of right-of-way of
State Highway 31 (SH 31):
      (1)   The south side of SH 31 from a point 216 feet west of the
intersection of SH 31 and Park Street (FM 764), to said intersection;
      (2)   The south side of SH 31 from a point 102 feet west of the
intersection of SH 31 and Trotman Street, to said intersection;
      (3)   The south side of SH 31 from a point 116 feet west of the
intersection of SH 31 and Lincoln Street, to said intersection;
      (4)   The south side of SH 31 and Leagueline Road (FM 1667), to said
intersection;
      (5)   The north side of SH 31 from a point 177 feet east of the
intersection of SH 31 and Leagueline Road (FM 1667), to said intersection;
      (6)   The north side of SH 31 from a point 110 feet east of the
intersection of SH 31 and Church Street, to said intersection;
      (7)   The north side of SH 31 from a point 138 feet east of the
intersection of SH 31 and Forehand Road, to said intersection;
      (8)   The north side of SH 31 from a point 185 feet east of the
intersection of SH 31 and Highway 274, to said intersection.
(Ord. 96-01, passed 2-13-1996; Ord. 2009-008, passed 4-21-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
         
91.   PUBLIC SAFETY
         
92.   STREETS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND OTHER CITY FACILITIES AND LANDS
         
93.   FAIR HOUSING REGULATIONS
         
94.   ANIMAL CODE
         
95.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
Authority and Definitions
   
90.001   Authority
   
90.002   Purpose
   
90.003   Findings of fact
   
90.004   Definitions
Littering
   
90.015   Littering by pedestrians and motorists prohibited
   
90.016   Vehicles transporting loose materials
   
90.017   Loading and unloading operations
   
90.018   Responsibility to keep property clean; abatement
   
90.019   Non-resident owners
   
90.020   Dumping refuse; other material
Repair of Motor Vehicles and Storage of Materials Outdoors
   
90.035   Motor vehicle maintenance, assemblage and the like on public property
   
90.036   Motor vehicle maintenance, assemblage and the like on private property
   
90.037   Refrigerators and other containers
   
90.038   Residential solid waste containerization; removal
   
90.039   Commercial solid waste containerization; removal
Nuisances and Offensive Conditions on Private Property
   
90.050   Nuisances described
   
90.051   Prohibited conduct
   
90.052   Nuisance declared and duty to abate
   
90.053   Noxious odors declared nuisance
   
90.054   Storage of materials
   
90.055   Maintenance of processing premises
   
90.056   Waste transportation and disposal
   
90.057   Limitation on height of grass and weeds
   
90.058   Discharge of sewage and hazardous wastes
   
90.059   Prima facie evidence
   
90.060   Disposal of dead animals
Nuisance Water Regulations
   
90.075   Accumulations of water prohibited
   
90.076   Collection of water containing bacillus coli declared public nuisance
   
90.077   Collection of water containing bacillus coli to be eliminated
   
90.078   Impairing of drainageways prohibited
   
90.079   Public toilets to be kept in sanitary condition
General Provisions
   
90.090   Right to abate dangerous conditions
   
90.091   Right to inspect
   
90.092   Violations and notices
   
90.093   Costs and appeals
   
90.094   Cost of abatement constitutes lien
   
90.095   Enforcement
   
90.096   Remedies
Noise
   
90.120   Definitions
   
90.121   Noise prohibited
   
90.122   Noise from vehicles
   
90.123   Exemptions
 
   
90.999   Penalty
AUTHORITY AND DEFINITIONS
§ 90.001 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the police powers and authority given
general law cities by the constitution, codes and general laws of the State of
Texas, including but not limited to Tex. Loc. Gov't. Code, Ch. 51 and Tex.
Health and Safety Code. The City Council hereby further finds and determines
that the rules, regulations, terms, conditions, provisions and requirements of
this ordinance are reasonable and necessary to protect the public health,
safety and quality of life.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for public health and general
welfare, the efficient and effective provision of city services and the
protection of the environment and natural resources of the community. From and
after the passage of this ordinance all occupancies and uses within the city
shall conform to the following rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.003 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The findings and recitations set out in the preamble of this chapter are
found to be true and correct and that they are hereby adopted by the City
Council and made a part hereof for all purposes.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section;
provided that, unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have
in common usage, and so as to give this ordinance its most reasonable
application.
   BRUSH. All uncultivated shrubs, bushes and small trees.
   EARTH AND CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.  Earth, rocks, bricks, concrete, other
similar materials and waste materials resulting from construction or
remodeling. This definition shall include used and waste lumber as well as
unused lumber (new or used) being stored on property for which there exists no
current or valid building permit pertaining to said property.
   FENCES. Existing fences are subject to inspection and may be tagged as
safety hazards or public nuisances if not adequately maintained. Should such
notification occur, the owner of the property has 90 days to rectify. Property
owners or residents may seek a one-time 90-day extension from the Chief of
Police or designee.
   GARBAGE.  Rubbish, trash, kitchen and household waste, ashes, bottles, cans,
rags, paper, food, food containers, lawn trimmings, tree trimmings, hedge
trimmings, leaves, grass, weeds and refuse, and all decayable wastes, including
animal and vegetable matter.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Shall mean solid or liquid waste, in any amount, which is
defined, characterized, identified or designated as hazardous by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency or appropriate State Agency by or
pursuant to Federal or state law, or waste, in any amount, which is regulated
under Federal or state law, including motor oil and radiator, engine crank
case, transmission or differential fluid, gasoline, paint, paint cans, toxic or
corrosive materials or any material found harmful to personnel or equipment as
determined by the Director of Public Works.
   JUNK. All worn out, worthless and discarded material, in general, including,
but not limited to, scrap iron, scrap tin, scrap brass, scrap copper, scrap
lead or scrap zinc and all other scrap metals and their alloys, and bones,
rags, glass, paper, cordage, cloth, rubber, rope, tinfoil, bottles, old cotton,
machinery, tools, construction materials, appliances, furniture, fixtures,
utensils, boxes or crates, pipe or pipe fittings, automobile or airplane tires,
dismantled motor vehicles, boats, boat trailers, boathouses or travel trailers
or parts thereof, or other manufactured goods or odds and ends that are worn
out, worthless, deteriorated, obsolete, discarded material or other wastes,
especially those that are unusable in their existing condition. This definition
shall include the above objects and materials that are obscured or covered by a
tarp or other similar covering.
   LITTER. Any quantity of uncontainerized paper, metal, plastic, glass, or
miscellaneous solid waste which may be classed as trash, debris, rubbish,
refuse, garbage, or junk not placed in a solid waste container.
   LOT. Means any tract, block or other parcel of land, or portion thereof,
located within the city limits of the City of Trinidad.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle, car, boat or similar vehicle that is, or was
originally, designed to be self-propelled.
   PERSON. Shall mean and include an individual human, partnership, co-
partnership firm, company, limited liability partnership or other partnership
or other such company, joint venture, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity, association or corporation or any other legal entity, or
their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall
include the feminine, the singular shall include the plural where indicated by
the context.
   REFUSE. See GARBAGE.
   RUBBISH. All refuse, junk, rejected tin cans, old vessels of all sorts,
useless articles, abandoned pipe, waste wood, wood products, tree trimmings,
grass cuttings, dead plants, weeds, leaves, dead trees or branches thereof,
chips, shavings, sawdust, printed matter, paper, pasteboard, rags, straw, used
and discarded clothing, used and discarded shoes and boots, combustible waste,
pulp and other products used for packaging or wrapping crockery and glass,
ashes, cinders, floor sweepings, glass, mineral or metallic substances,
textiles and objects of all sorts, and in general all litter. This definition
shall include the above objects and materials that are obscured or covered by a
tarp or other similar covering. The words “any and all objectionable or
unsanitary matters,” not included within the meaning of the other terms as
herein used, means those which are liable to produce or tend to produce an
unhealthy, unwholesome or unsanitary condition to the general locality where
the same are situated.
   SEWAGE or WASTEWATER. A combination of waterborne wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and commercial and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SOLID WASTE. Household garbage and refuse and commercial garbage and refuse,
brush cuttings and weeds.
   SOLID WASTE SERVICE. The collection and hauling of residential and business
solid waste, e.g. garbage, trash and refuse, for disposal at a state licensed
landfill; and the actions and services directly related thereto or necessary
for the provision of such services to consumers or customers in the city.
   STRUCTURE. As used in this chapter, means the same thing as it does in
Ordinance 71 (Building Code).
   TRASH. See GARBAGE.
   UNWHOLESOME MATTER. All stagnant water, filth, carrion, impure matters and
any condition liable to produce, harbor or spread disease or germs or cause
noxious, foul and offensive odors, including foodstuff or by-product thereof of
any animal nature, or any fruit, vegetable or other thing which may become
tainted, diseased, fermented or decaying or otherwise unwholesome or unclean.
   WASTE. Rejected, unutilized or superfluous substances in liquid, gaseous or
solid form resulting from domestic, agricultural, commercial, or industrial
activities.
   WEEDS. All rank and uncultivated vegetable growth or matter which is liable
to become an unwholesome or decaying mass or breeding place for flies,
mosquitoes, snakes, rats or other vermin.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
LITTERING
§ 90.015 LITTERING BY PEDESTRIANS AND MOTORISTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, discard, place, or
deposit litter in any manner or amount on any public or private property within
the corporate limits of the city, except in lawfully provided containers.
   (B)   In prosecuting the owner of a motor vehicle for violating division
(A), proof that the litter originated from the particular vehicle described in
the complaint, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint
was at the time of such violation the registered owner of said vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a presumption that the registered owner was the person
who committed the violation.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every person distributing handbills, leaflets,
flyers, or any other advertising and information material to take whatever
measures that may be necessary to keep such materials from littering public or
private property.
   (D)   To facilitate proper disposal of litter by pedestrians and motorists,
publicly patronized or used establishments shall provide, regularly empty, and
maintain in good condition adequate containers that meet standards prescribed
by the city. This requirement shall be applicable, but not limited to, fast
food outlets, shopping centers, convenience stores, supermarkets, service
stations, commercial parking lots, and public institutions.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.016 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING LOOSE MATERIALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, institution,
or organization to transport any loose cargo by truck or other motor vehicle
within the corporate limits of the city unless said cargo is covered and
secured in such manner as to prevent depositing of litter on public and private
property.
   (B)   Division (A) shall also apply to the owner or operator of the truck or
other vehicle.
   (C)   In prosecuting a person, firm, corporation, institution, organization,
or owner or operator of a truck or other vehicle under division (A), proof that
the cargo was not adequately covered and secured shall constitute in evidence a
presumption of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.017 LOADING AND UNLOADING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Any owner or occupant of an establishment or institution at which
litter is attendant to the packing and unpacking and loading and unloading of
materials at exterior locations shall provide suitable containers for the
disposal and storage of such litter and shall make appropriate arrangements for
its collection.
   (B)   Further, it shall be the duty of the owner or occupant under division
(A) to remove any litter that has not been containerized at the end of each
day.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.018 RESPONSIBILITY TO KEEP PROPERTY CLEAN; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The owner, agent, occupant, or lessee of private property shall keep
the exterior free of litter. This requirement applies not only to removal of
loose litter, but to materials that already are, or become, trapped at
locations such as fence and wall bases, grassy and planted areas, borders,
embankments, and other lodging points.
   (B)   Owners, agents, occupants, or lessees of private property that faces
city sidewalks and strips between streets shall keep such sidewalks and strips
free of litter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person under this section to sweep or push
litter from sidewalks and strips into streets. Owners, agents, occupants, or
lessees of private property must pick up and put sidewalk and strip sweepings
into household or commercial solid waste containers.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.019 NON-RESIDENT OWNERS.
   Owners of property such as vacant lots or other vacant property who are not
present shall appoint a resident agent to keep that lot or other property free
of litter. Lack of knowledge of a property's condition because the owner does
not reside or is not located within or near the city shall not constitute a
defense or legal excuse under this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-13, passed 10-20-2009; Am. Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.020 DUMPING REFUSE; OTHER MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump refuse, garbage, rubbish, junk,
or any other material, including, but not limited to, cement or any earth or
construction materials, on or near city streets, private property, parks,
parking lots, commercial or public buildings, or on adjoining highways and
rights-of-way; provided, however, the owner or resident of private property may
deposit a reasonable amount of refuse or garbage on his or her private for soil
composting purposes, so long as such is done in a manner that prevents the
deposit from being blown by the wind or strewn or scattered by animals.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
REPAIR OF MOTOR VEHICLES AND STORAGE OF MATERIALS OUTDOORS
§ 90.035 MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, ASSEMBLAGE AND THE LIKE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to repair, strip, assemble, or perform ordinary
maintenance on a motor vehicle on public property, parking lots or any vacant
lots within the city limits, except in those situations in which immediate
action is necessary because the vehicle is disabled.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.036 MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, ASSEMBLAGE AND THE LIKE ON PRIVATE
PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to repair, strip, assemble or store a disabled motor
vehicle, or parts thereof, on any private property, unless said vehicle is
totally enclosed within a structure or behind a six foot privacy fence where
the vehicle is completely screened from the view of the public and is not
visible from a public roadway, except in those situations in which immediate
action is necessary because a vehicle is disabled and the vehicle remains for
no longer than 48 consecutive hours. Covering or obscuring a motor vehicle or
parts thereof with a tarp or other similar covering shall not constitute a
legal defense or excuse to any enforcement or prosecution pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.037 REFRIGERATORS AND OTHER CONTAINERS.
   (A)   This section applies to a refrigerator, icebox, or other airtight or
semi airtight container that has:
      (1)   A capacity of at least one and one-half cubic feet;
      (2)   An opening of at least 50 square inches; and
      (3)   A door or lid equipped with a latch or other fastening device
capable of securing the door or lid shut.
   (B)   No person shall place a container described in division (A) outside of
a structure or in a warehouse, storage room, or unoccupied or abandoned
structure so that it is accessible to children.
   (C)   No person shall permit a container described in division (A) to remain
outside of a structure or in a warehouse, storage room, or unoccupied or
abandoned structure so that it is accessible to children.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.038 RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE CONTAINERIZATION; REMOVAL.
   (A)   All owners or residents of residential property shall have sufficient
container capacity to accommodate their volume of solid waste between
collections.
   (B)   Owners or residents of residential property shall deposit all items
too large to fit into containers, such as, but not limited to, appliances,
furniture, and mattresses through fee payment bulk collection service or self
transport of such items to end disposal facilities outside the city.
   (C)   Owners or residents of residential property shall bundle and securely
tie all loose materials which normally fit into containers, but which are
excess as a result of special circumstances, such as holidays, so as to repel
animals, prevent materials from blowing or scattering, and place such materials
beside the containers.
   (D)   Owners or residents of residential property shall keep containers
covered at all times.
   (E)   The owner or user of any container which does not conform to
prescribed standards or which has defects likely to hamper collection or injure
the person collecting the contents or the public generally shall replace the
container after receiving written notice of such defects from the city. Failure
to do so within five days of such notification shall constitute a violation of
this section.
   (F)   The owner of containers used for collection shall take necessary
precautions so that the contents do not become litter when placing and removing
them.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any resident to deposit household solid waste
in any receptacle maintained on a sidewalk or at any other location for
disposal of litter by pedestrians.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.039 COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE CONTAINERIZATION; REMOVAL.
   (A)   All owners of establishments and institutions which generate solid
waste for collection by approved contractors shall obtain adequate containers
approved by the city and shall keep said containers in such a manner that they
are not visible from adjacent public or private property.
   (B)   Owners described in division (A) shall keep containers covered at all
times.
   (C)   The owner or user of any container which does not conform to
prescribed standards or which has defects likely to hamper collection or injure
the person collecting the contents or the public generally shall replace the
container after receiving written notice of such defects from the city. Failure
to do so within five days of such notification shall constitute a violation of
this section.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, manager, or employee of a
commercial establishment or institution to deposit solid waste from that
establishment or institution in any receptacle maintained on a sidewalk or at
any other location for disposal of litter by pedestrians.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
NUISANCES AND OFFENSIVE CONDITIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 90.050 NUISANCES DESCRIBED.
   (A)   Health and sanitation nuisances are those things that render the
ground, water, air, or food hazardous or injurious to human life, health, that
is offensive to the senses, or that threatens to become detrimental to the
public health. Any person causing, permitting, or suffering a nuisance to exist
upon any premises or upon any building occupied or controlled by him or her or
in any street, alley, sidewalk, or gutter immediately adjacent to such premises
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   In addition to other nuisances identified herein, the following health
and sanitation nuisances are specifically declared to constitute public
nuisances:
      (1)   Bakeries, restaurants, food markets, and other places where food is
prepared, kept for sale, or served and not kept in a clean, sanitary condition,
or for which a valid health certificate has not been issued, in which employees
have a communicable disease, in which suitable sanitary toilet facilities are
not provided, or in which insects, flies, rats, mice, or vermin have access to
food.
      (2)   The storage, sale, or transportation of spoiled or diseased meats
or other foods.
      (3)   The maintenance of organic material accumulations, such as manure
piles in barns, stables, hog pens, chicken yards, and cow lots, that are
breeding places of insects, flies, or mosquitoes or convenient harborage for
rats and mice.
      (4)   The discharge or exposure of sewage, human excreta, wastewater,
garbage, or other organic filth into or on any place in such a manner that
transmission of disease from the infected material may result, or the placing
or maintaining of such materials as tin cans or rubbish of any sort that might
constitute a breeding place for mosquitoes or flies or offer a hiding place or
protection for rodents.
      (5)   Privies not protected against flies or privies and cesspools the
drainage from which is likely to pollute the soil, surface water, or water
supply from which water for public or private consumption is obtained.
      (6)   Cellars, vaults, drains, pools, privies, sewers, yards, grounds, or
premises which have become foul, nauseous, or not maintained with adequate
ingress or egress or not sufficiently supported, ventilated, sewered, drained,
cleaned, or lighted.
      (7)   Any transportation of garbage, human excreta, or other organic
waste, except in tight covered wagons or containers which prevent leakage or
access to flies.
      (8)   Stagnant water on private or public premises likely to afford
breeding places for mosquitoes.
      (9)   Hide houses, bone boiling, or rendering establishments, tallow soap
work, or other trades deleteriously affecting public health.
      (10)   All carcasses; all decaying flesh, fish, fowls, fruit, or
vegetables; all deposits of manure; all flesh of any kind or description
whatever; all filthy or offensive water or slops in any private yard or
premises; and all other unwholesome substances upon any street, alley, public
ground, or enclosure.
      (11)   Sweeping or depositing of trash, paper, or rubbish into any
street, alley, public thoroughfare, or other public place.
      (12)   Burning any substance that may cause or produce an offensive
smell, smoke, or odor capable of annoying persons living in the vicinity or
persons passing along the streets, alleys, or public thoroughfares.
      (13)   Permitting or allowing weeds, filth, or rubbish of any kind to
remain on any sidewalk in front of or at the side of any premises or in the
street adjacent to the premises, or upon any alley that may be at the rear or
side of the premises.
      (14)   Scattering or distributing any advertisements, circulars,
handbills, printed or written announcements, or paper of like character, or any
medicines, upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys, or within the public buildings
or grounds of the city.
      (15)   Conducting or causing to be conducted any matter that obstructs
any alley or gutter, drain, or public ground, except such articles as are
permitted by city law.
      (16)   Buildings, barns, sheds, filling stations, construction camps,
junk shops, camp houses, or any part thereof, which are in such a dilapidated
or filthy condition as to harbor vermin or endanger the life or health of
persons living in the vicinity or the public generally.
      (17)   Displaying food in the open air, unless in proper cases
constructed so as to protect such food from insects, flies, dust, filth, dogs,
rodents, and insects.
      (18)   Every trade, business, or occupation injurious to the health or
comfort of persons who reside in the vicinity, and any can or receptacle
containing water or slops that have become stagnant, offensive or unwholesome.
      (19)   Conducting any business or enterprise that allows paper, paper
cups, or any other debris to escape from such premises or building and litter
any sidewalk, alley, street, or other public place or private property.
      (20)   Allowing weeds, grass, or other uncultivated plants to attain a
height greater than 12 inches on any lot or tract of land, within the city.
      (21)   Allowing rubbish, brush, or any other unsightly, objectionable, or
unsanitary matter to grow or accumulate on any lot within the city.
      (22)   Any person, group of persons or corporation owning or having
control of any fence within the city shall be responsible to maintain the fence
in a safe and visibly presentable condition. All fencing shall be maintained in
an attractive state and shall not be allowed to lean, sag, warp or otherwise
fall into disrepair. Any missing, rotted, loose or broken pieces shall be
replaced. This shall include replacement of broken or defective boards, posts,
wire, wood, wrought iron, vinyl, brick, pierced brick, stone, mortar, blocks,
wood or other fence parts or a combination of some or all. This section
requires owners to remove, repair, or replace fences identified in violation
that may cause the fence to be unsafe or unsightly.
   (C)   Existing fences are subject to inspection and may be tagged as safety
hazards or public nuisances if not adequately maintained. Should such
notification occur, the owner of the property has 90 days rectify. Property
owners or residents may seek a one-time 90-day extension from the Chief of
Police or designee.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.051 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner, occupant, lessee or renter of any lot or
parcel of ground within the city limits (herein cumulatively referred to as
"owner" or "occupant") to:
   (A)   Fail to maintain such property:
      (1)   Free of accumulations of brush, earth and construction materials,
garbage, litter, junk, refuse, rubbish, solid waste, trash, weeds, unwholesome
matters and any other objectionable, unsightly, or unsanitary matter of
whatsoever nature;
      (2)   Free and clear from weeds and tall grass from the line of such
property, including the sidewalks, to the established curb line next adjacent
thereto;
      (3)   Free of drain holes and depressions in which water collects or to
fail to regrade any lots, grounds or yards or any other property owned or
controlled by the owner or occupant which shall be unwholesome or have stagnant
water thereon, or which from any other cause, is in such condition as to be
liable to produce disease;
      (4)   Free from filth, carrion or other impure or unwholesome matter of
any kind, on any portion of the property under the owner or occupant's control,
including any house, building, establishment, lot yard or ground owned or
occupied, especially any such filth, carrion or other impure or unwholesome
matter that exudes any noxious, foul or offensive odor that is detectable past
or beyond the boundary of the property upon which the matter is located;
      (5)   Free of discharge of sewage or hazardous wastes into the soil or
subsurface soil without proper containment thereto; or
      (6)   In any manner that is inconsistent with this chapter.
   (B)   Suffer, allow or permit any person to bring or transport onto the
property any filth, carrion, decaying animal or vegetable matter, or other
impure or unwholesome matter of any kind, that exudes any noxious, foul or
offensive odor that is detectable past or beyond the boundary of the property
that is under the ownership or control of the owner or occupant; or
   (C)   Operate or conduct any business or activity on the property in a
manner that causes or results in any noxious, foul or offensive odor that
originates on the property, or that emanates from any source that such owner or
occupant has suffered, allowed or permitted to come onto the property, being
detectable past or beyond the boundary of the property that is under the
ownership or control of the owner or occupant.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.052 NUISANCE DECLARED AND DUTY TO ABATE.
   Whenever brush, earth or construction materials, garbage, litter, junk,
refuse, rubbish, solid waste, trash, weeds, unwholesome matters and any other
objectionable, unsightly, or unsanitary matter of whatsoever shall exist,
covering or partially covering the surface of any lot or parcel of any real
estate situated within the city, or when any of said lots or parcels of real
estate as aforesaid shall have the surface thereof filled or partly filled with
holes or be in such condition that the same holds or is liable to hold stagnant
water therein, or if from any other cause shall be in such condition as to
cause disease, or produce, harbor or spread disease or germs of any nature or
tend to render the surrounding atmosphere unhealthy, unwholesome or obnoxious,
or shall contain unwholesome matter of any kind or description, or any other
conduct prohibited hereby occurs upon any lot or parcel in the city, the same
is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance, the prompt abatement of
which is hereby declared to be a public necessity. Any such nuisance shall be
removed from the property by the owner or other person in possession or control
of such property.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.053 NOXIOUS ODORS DECLARED NUISANCE.
   If the owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of land within the city shall
suffer, allow or permit any spoiled, rotting or decaying animal or vegetable
matter to be on the property, and such spoiled, rotting or decaying animal or
vegetable matter shall cause or result in a noxious, foul or offensive odor
being detectable past or beyond the boundary of the property that is under the
ownership or control of the owner or occupant, the same is hereby declared to
be and constitute a public nuisance. Any such nuisance shall be removed from
the property by the owner or other person in possession or control of such
property.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.054 STORAGE OF MATERIALS.
   All garbage, sewage, hazardous wastes and other unwholesome materials of any
kind shall be stored in containers to prevent such materials from dispersing
beyond the storage location, seepage into the ground, or permitting the escape
of noxious, foul or offensive odors into the air across the boundaries of the
owner or occupant's property to another property.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.055 MAINTENANCE OF PROCESSING PREMISES.
   The entire yard and premises occupied by any butcher shops, meat markets,
and food processing or food manufacturing establishments of any animal or
vegetable matter shall be well drained, the floors shall be free of sawdust,
shavings or other dust creating or filth-collecting coverings and all back
rooms, sheds or yards, or other places connected by any opening with any room
shall at all times be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and free from
filth, exposed refuse or garbage, trash and unrefrigerated animal or vegetable
scraps. Each room and the floors, walls, ceilings, windows and doors thereof,
and all the fixtures, furniture, receptacles, utensils, machinery, implements
and other things, excepting receptacles used to hold refuse, in each such room,
or used in connection with any such business, shall at all times be kept free
from dirt, adhering foreign matter, unwholesome odors, decaying substance,
cobwebs, trash, scraps, etc., and in a clean and sanitary condition. Further,
all butcher shops, meat markets, and food processing or food manufacturing
establishments shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Two adjacent deep vats shall be provided for in all rooms containing
the actual butcher shops, meat markets, and food processing or food
manufacturing establishments with hot and cold running water under pressure.
   (B)   No slaughtered meat, fish, poultry or meat products, and no milk,
butter, cheese or dairy products shall be left open or exposed to contamination
by dust, air, insects or other extraneous matter, either within or without any
such room or place of business, and all fresh or uncooked meat, fish, poultry
and all milk and butter shall be immediately placed and kept in a refrigerator,
or icebox or cold-storage room, except when removed therefrom for the immediate
purposes and operation of the business. Meats and fish shall not be kept in the
same compartment with milk and butter.
   (C)   Each refrigeration, icebox or cold storage room shall be well
constructed, tight and secure, and shall be kept reasonably dry on the inside
and free from foul odors, mold and slime, and shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (D)   All readily perishable products shall be kept at 50° Fahrenheit or
below, including offal, bones and other waste products while on the property.
All liquid wastes from such refrigeration equipment shall be connected to a
public sewer in an approved manner.
   (E)   No refuse or tainted or decaying meat, fish or other substance shall
be allowed to remain in any refrigerator, icebox or cold-storage compartment,
unless such refrigerator, icebox or cold-storage compartment is designated and
maintained exclusively for such purpose. Offal, bones or other garbage or
discarded organic matter, animal or vegetable, or slops or refuse of any
character whatsoever shall not be left exposed to the atmosphere of any room,
but shall immediately be deposited and kept in a closed container which shall
be emptied and cleaned at least once each day. All refuse and tainted or
decaying meat, fish, poultry, cheese or other organic matter, whether animal or
vegetable, shall be stored and removed from the property in a manner to prevent
any foul, noxious or offensive odor from being detectable past or beyond the
boundary of the property that is under the ownership or control of the owner or
occupant.
   (F)   Each room shall be kept free from flies, rats, roaches and other
insects and vermin.
   (G)   No animals or fowl shall be kept or allowed to be kept in the same
room as any food processing or manufacturing.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.056 WASTE TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSAL.
   All vehicles, wagons, carts, transports and conveyances used for delivering,
collecting or transporting, through the city, any offal, bones, or other
garbage or discarded organic matter, animal or vegetable matter, or slops
refuse of any character in an amount of greater than 45 pounds shall keep,
maintain, haul and transport the waste in an enclosed storage container that is
well constructed, tight and secure, to prevent the escape of any such matter
and to prevent any noxious, foul or offensive smells from escaping the confines
of such storage container within the city limits.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.057 LIMITATION ON HEIGHT OF GRASS AND WEEDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who shall own or occupy any lot or lots
in the city limits to allow weeds and/or grass to grow on such lot or lots to a
height of more than 12 inches. Weeds and/or grass of a height exceeding 12
inches are declared a nuisance. Provided, however, this section shall not apply
to property used for the growing of agricultural crops or grass if such
property has not been platted into lots.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.058 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE AND HAZARDOUS WASTES.
   Any person or persons who shall allow or permit sewage or hazardous wastes
to discharge into the ground or subsurface soil, which shall have the effect of
causing odors or obnoxious, unhealthy and unwholesome conditions to exist, is
declared to have caused a public nuisance and shall be in violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.059 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of this chapter governing the
discharge of sewage or toxic wastes, proof that the particular sewage or toxic
wastes described in the complaint was discharged into the ground or subsurface
soil in violation of §
90.057 above, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint
was, at the time of such discharge, the registered owner or occupant of such
lot or lots, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the
registered owner or occupant of such lot or lots was the person who discharged
such sewage or toxic wastes when such violation occurred.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.060 DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   The owner, if known, and if not known, the owner or tenant of the premises
where the carcass of any animal, dead of disease or other cause and not
slaughtered for food, is found, shall remove and dispose of such carcass at his
or her own expense, within 24 hours after such death.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
NUISANCE WATER REGULATIONS
§ 90.075 ACCUMULATIONS OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have, keep, maintain, cause, or
permit within the city any collection of standing or flowing water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, unless the collection of water is
treated to prevent breeding.
   (B)   The collections of water specified in division (a) are those contained
in ditches, pools, ponds, excavations, holes, depressions, open cesspools,
privy vaults, fountains, cisterns, tanks, shallow wells, barrels, troughs
(except livestock troughs in frequent use), urns, cans, boxes, bottles, tubs,
buckets, defective house roof gutters, automobile tires, tanks, or flush
closets, or other similar water containers.
   (C)   The city deems the natural presence of mosquito larvae in standing or
running water as sufficient evidence that mosquitoes are breeding.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to fail to prevent mosquito breeding
within three days after the code enforcement officer gives the person written
notice of a violation of this section.
   (E)   The code enforcement officer shall approve one or more of the
following methods of treatment of collections of water to prevent mosquito
breeding:
      (1)   Screening with wire netting of at least 16 meshes to the inch each
way or with any other material which will prevent the ingress or egress of
mosquitoes;
      (2)   Emptying of unscreened containers every seven days, together with
thorough drying or cleaning;
      (3)   Application of a larvacide approved by and under the direction of
the code enforcement officer;
      (4)   Covering surface water with kerosene, petroleum, or paraffin oil
once every seven days;
      (5)   Cleaning and keeping ponds and other collections of water
sufficiently free of vegetable growth and other obstructions and stocking with
mosquito-destroying fish;
      (6)   Filling or draining ponds or other collections of water to the code
enforcement officer's satisfaction or his or her authorized representative;
and/or
      (7)   Removing or destroying tin cans, tin boxes, broken or empty
bottles, and similar containers likely to hold water.
   (F)   The city is authorized to take all necessary measures and costs to
prevent or halt the conditions responsible for mosquito breeding and levy a
lien against a person's property for all costs incurred by the city if the
person responsible for conditions giving rise to the breeding of mosquitoes
fails or refuses to take measures necessary to prevent mosquito breeding within
three days after the code enforcement officer gives the person due notice.
   (G)   The code enforcement officer or his other agent may enter any premises
within his or her jurisdiction at all reasonable times to enforce this section.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.076 COLLECTION OF WATER CONTAINING BACILLUS COLI DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any person maintaining or allowing to be maintained a well, pool, spring, or
collection of water within the city containing the bacillus coli germ or
bacteria on premises owned or controlled by him or her shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor for a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, §
90.999
§ 90.077 COLLECTION OF WATER CONTAINING BACILLUS COLI TO BE ELIMINATED.
   The code enforcement officer shall instruct a person owning or controlling a
well, pool, spring, or collection of water within the city contaminated with
bacillus coli on their property to seal, fill, or drain such well, pool,
spring, or water collection so that it can no longer be used for drinking,
bathing, or domestic purposes.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.078 IMPAIRING OF DRAINAGEWAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or place in any street, alley,
drainage ditch, or gutter any trash, tin, shavings, refuse, or other matter
that prevents the free passage of water or that causes it to stagnate. It is
unlawful for any person installing or repairing water, gas, or service pipes to
leave any street, alley, drainage ditch, or gutter in a condition that impairs
the drainage.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.079 PUBLIC TOILETS TO BE KEPT IN SANITARY CONDITION.
   All owners or persons in charge of public buildings, filling stations,
camps, and other places of public assemblage shall provide clean and sanitary,
sufficient and suitable, and well-lighted and ventilated toilet accommodations
for each sex. Such accommodations must be kept in a thoroughly clean and
sanitary condition.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.090 RIGHT TO ABATE DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   Whenever an immediate danger to the health, life or safety of any person
exists as a result of garbage, rubbish, junk, trash, unwholesome matter, sewage
or toxic waste discharge, storage of airtight containers in an unsafe location,
or weeds which have grown to a height, at any point on the property, of greater
than 48 inches, the city may abate the nuisance without notice to the owner.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.091 RIGHT TO INSPECT.
   The code enforcement officer or designee is authorized to inspect any
property within the corporate limits of the city, at any reasonable time,
subject, however, to the requirements for obtaining the permission of the
occupant, or obtaining a warrant for the entry and inspection of private
residences.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.092 VIOLATIONS AND NOTICES.
   (A)   If an officer charged with the enforcement of this chapter shall
determine that a person has violated any provision of this chapter, such
officer may issue a citation.
   (B)   If an officer charged with the enforcement of this chapter shall
determine that a situation exists which immediately affects or threatens the
health, safety and well-being of the general public, and that immediate action
is necessary, such officer may take such action as shall be necessary,
including issuing citations for violations of the terms and provisions hereof
to the owner and/or occupant of the property upon which such condition exists,
as may be deemed appropriate and necessary.
   (C)   If an officer charged with enforcement of this chapter determines a
situation constitutes an immediate threat to the public health, safety and
welfare, and the owner or occupant of the property is absent or fails to
immediately remedy the violation, the City Council may, at a regular session or
at an emergency session called for the purpose of considering the issue, upon
evidence heard, determine that an emergency exists and order such action as may
be required to protect the public health, safety and welfare. In such event,
the city may prosecute an action in any court of competent jurisdiction to
recover its costs.
   (D)   If any owner or occupant shall fail or refuse to remedy any of the
conditions prohibited by this chapter within the amount of time prescribed in a
written notice by the code enforcement officer, Chief of Police, or such
designee, the city may do such work or cause the same to be done, and pay
therefore, and charge the expenses in doing or having such work done or
improvements made to the owner(s) of the property, and such charge shall be a
personal liability of such owner to the city.
   (E)   Notices required pursuant to this chapter shall be in writing. Such
notices may be served upon such owner and/or occupant as follows: in person by
an officer or employee of the city; by letter addressed to such owner or
occupant at his/her post office address; or, if personal service may not be
had, or the owner or occupant's address be not known, then notice may be given
by publishing a brief summary of such order at least once in the official
newspaper of the city or by posting a notice on or near the front door of each
building on the property upon which the violation relates, or, if no building
exists, by posting notice on a placard attached to a stake driven into the
ground on the property to which the violation relates. The notice shall state
“Sanitary Improvements,” “To Whom It May Concern” and a brief statement of the
violation(s). Service of the notice by any one of the above methods, or by a
combination thereof, shall be deemed sufficient notice.
   (F)   If an owner is mailed a notice in accordance with division (E) and the
United States Postal Service returns the notice as “refused” or “unclaimed” the
validity of the notice is not affected, and the notice is considered as
delivered.
   (G)   Notices provided by mail or by posting as set forth in division (E)
may provide for year round abatement of the nuisance and inform the owner that
should the owner commit any other violation of the same kind that pose a danger
to the public health and safety on or before the first anniversary of the date
of the notice, the city without further notice may abate the violation at the
owner's expense and assess the costs against the property.
   (H)   Persons littering, in violation of §§
90.015 et seq. or causing or creating a prohibited nuisance in the presence of
a person authorized to enforce this chapter may be cited or a complaint filed
for such violation without notice of the violation, or warning, and such
citation or complaint shall be filed in the Municipal Court of the City of
Trinidad.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.093 COSTS AND APPEALS.
   In addition to any other remedy provided in this chapter and cumulative
thereto, the code enforcement officer, after giving the owner of the
noncompliant property notice in writing, as provided in §
90.092, to remedy the condition(s) in violation of this chapter, may cause any
of the work or improvements mentioned in this chapter to be done at the expense
of the city. Such abatement expenses may be charged to the utility bill of the
property on which such work or improvements are done, and cause all of the
actual cost to the city to be assessed on the real estate or lot on which such
expenses occurred; provided, that the owner of any such real estate may appeal
to the City Council from the order of the code enforcement officer by filing a
written statement with the code enforcement officer within seven days after
receipt of the notice provided for above, stating that such real estate
complied with the provision of this chapter before the expiration of a seven
day period. The City Council shall set a date, within 30 days from the date of
the appeal, for hearing the appeal to determine whether the real estate
complied with the provisions of this chapter before the expiration of such
seven day period. The authority of the code enforcement officer to proceed to
cause such work to be done shall not be suspended while an appeal from the
order is pending. If it shall be determined by the City Council that the
premises complied with the provisions of this chapter before the expiration of
the seven day period, then no personal liability of the owner shall arise nor
shall any lien be created against the premises upon which such work was done.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.094 COST OF ABATEMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   Cumulative of the city's remedy by fine, as set forth herein, the city may
do such work or cause the same to be done to remedy such condition to remove
such matter from such owner's premises at the city's expense and charge the
same to the utility bill of such property, assess the same against the real
estate or lot or lots upon which such expense is incurred and the city may send
a bill to the property owner to recover the costs incurred by the city while
abating the nuisance. The following charges will apply:
Equipment/Labor Price Per Hour
Equipment/Labor      Price Per Hour
Tractor/brush hog    $40
Dump truck/Trailer   $40
Front end/Back hoe   $40
Pick up truck        $15
Weed-eater           $15
Chain saw            $15
Lawn mower           $15
Labor                $15
Administrative cost  plus 10%
Per battery removed  $5
Per trip to landfill $50
Tire disposal        $2 to $5
 
   (A)   Expenditures plus 10% per annum interest on the expenditures from the
date of such payment by the city shall be added to the next billing cycle for
utility bills for the real estate or lot or lots, if not already paid. Payment
shall be due and payable in full by the owner or occupant at the time of
payment of such utility bill. If the property is unoccupied, no utilities shall
be furnished to the property where the work occurred until such obligation, as
herein set out, payable to the city for abatement of any nuisance described
herein is paid in full.
   (B)   Upon filing with the county clerk of Henderson County, Texas, of a
statement by the City Secretary or designee of such expenses, the city shall
have a privileged lien upon said real estate or lot or lots, second only to tax
liens and liens for street improvements, to secure the expenditure so made and
10% per annum interest on the amount from the date of such payment so made by
the city.
   (C)   The city may, additionally, institute suit and recover such expenses
and foreclose such lien in any court of competent jurisdiction, and the
statement so filed with the County Clerk or a certified copy thereof shall be
prima facie proof of the amount expended in any such work or improvements to
remedy such condition or remove any such matter.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008;Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am. Ord.
2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.095 ENFORCEMENT.
   The civil and criminal provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the
persons or agencies designated by the city, including, but not limited to, the
Henderson County Sheriff's Department, the City of Trinidad Police Department,
the building official, and the code enforcement officer. It shall be a
violation of this chapter to interfere with a code enforcement officer, or
other person authorized to enforce this chapter, in the performance of his or
her duties.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 90.096 REMEDIES.
   All remedies cited herein are in addition to and not in lieu of all remedies
permitted to the city by law.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-013, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
NOISE
§ 90.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration, or similar action excluding demolition, for or of public or private
rights-of-way, structures, utilities or similar property.
   DEMOLITION. Any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of
structures, buildings, utilities, public or private right-of-way surfaces, or
similar property.
   DEVICE. Any mechanism which is intended to produce, or which actually
produces, noise when operated or handled.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. A motor vehicle used in response to a public calamity or
to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle propelled by mechanical power or any motorized
watercraft, such as, but not limited to, any passenger car, truck, truck-
trailer, semitrailer, camper, motorcycle, mini-bike, go-cart, boat, jet-ski,
dune buggy or racing vehicle.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any unreasonable loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise,
which is offensive to an adult person within the city, which noise renders the
enjoyment of life or property uncomfortable or interferes with public peace and
comfort.
   VIBRATION. An oscillatory motion of solid bodies of deterministic or random
nature described by displacement, velocity, or acceleration with respect to a
given reference point.
(Ord. 2015-001, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 90.121 NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall allow, make or cause to be made any unreasonably loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noise within the limits of the city, which is
offensive or which causes material distress, discomfort, or injury to an adult
person of ordinary sensibilities in the immediate vicinity thereof, or any
noise of such character, intensity, and continued duration which renders the
enjoyment of life or property uncomfortable or interferes with the public
peace, and such noise is hereby declared to be a nuisance..
   (B)   The following activities and the activities described in §
90.122, among others but not to exclude other such acts, are declared to come
into the purview of this subchapter and to be nuisances within the meaning
hereof:
      (1)   Animals. Owning, keeping, possessing, or harboring any animal or
animals which, by causing frequent or long continued noise, disturb or
interfere with the peace, comfort, or repose of neighboring residents, or cause
a disturbance. The provision of this section shall apply to all public and
private facilities including any animal shelter or commercial kennel, which
holds or treats animals.
      (2)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, phonographs and
similar devices.
         (a)   The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or
operated any sound production or reproduction device, radio receiving set,
musical instrument, drums, phonograph, television set, loud speakers and
amplifiers or other machine or device for the production or reproduction of
sound in such a manner as to violate the noise disturbance.
         (b)   The operation of any such radio, instrument, phonograph,
television set, loud speakers or similar device in such a manner as to be
plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building structure or vehicle
in which it is located, shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
      (3)   Yelling, shouting, etc. The yelling, shouting, crying, hooting,
whistling or singing of peddlers, hawkers or any other person in a manner that
causes a noise disturbance.
      (4)   Construction work. Operating or permitting to be operated any
equipment used in construction, repair alteration or demolition work on
buildings, structures, streets, alleys or appurtenances.
      (5)   Vehicles and motorcycles. The repairing, rebuilding, modifying or
testing of any motor vehicle (including off-road vehicles) or watercraft on
private property, on a public right-of-way, on a public space, in such a manner
as to create loud or unnecessary noises, such as spinning or squealing of
tires, grating, grinding, rattling, or other noises, between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day shall be deemed a violation of this
section.
      (6)   Vibration. Using or causing the use of any device that creates any
ground vibration which is perceptible without instruments at any point on or
beyond the property boundary of the source if on private property or at 50 feet
from the source if on a public space or public right-of-way.
      (7)   Engine brake. The operation and use of auxiliary or compression
engine, Jake, or motor brakes that produce noise in addition to the normal
operating engine noise within the city is prohibited and deemed a violation of
this section. This provision is not intended to prohibit the passage of
vehicles equipped with engine brakes or "Jake brakes" through the city but
rather prohibit the use of such equipment within the city limits during non-
emergency situations.
(Ord. 2015-001, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 90.122 NOISE FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating or controlling a motor vehicle
in any location within the city, to operate a radio, stereo receiver, compact
disc player, cassette tape player or other similar device from the motor
vehicle in such a manner that the volume is louder than is necessary for the
convenient hearing of the occupants of the vehicle in which such device is
operated, which is hereby declared to be a nuisance. The operation of such a
device in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet or in
such a manner that the vibration accompanying the sound from the device can be
plainly felt at a distance of 50 feet from the vehicle shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2015-001, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 90.123 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following term shall have the
meaning set forth below:
      SPECIAL EVENT. An event occurring nor more than once in a calendar year,
being no longer than five days in duration and which complies with all park use
permit requirements.
   (B)   The following sources of potentially excessive sound shall be exempt
from noise control regulation:
      (1)   Safety signals, storm warning sirens or horns and the testing of
such equipment, emergency vehicles sirens or horns used when responding to an
emergency, and emergency pressure relief valves.
      (2)   Sound caused in the performance of emergency or public service
work, including public utility operations, acting to protect the health, safety
or welfare of the community.
      (3)   Sounds caused by natural phenomena.
      (4)   Public or private school sponsored activities conducted on public
playgrounds and public or private school grounds including, but not limited to,
school athletic and school entertainment events.
      (5)   Special events conducted on public parks.
      (6)   The activation and use of an engine brake as prohibited herein
shall be permitted only in emergency situations when there is an imminent
danger of collision with property, vehicles, persons or animals.
(Ord. 2015-001, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or
shall fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, within
the city limits shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be liable for a
fine not to exceed the sum of $2,000. Each day the violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense. Such penalty shall be in addition to all the
other remedies provided herein.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
90.120 through
90.123, or failing to comply therewith, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction in the Municipal Court of the city shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed the sum of $500 for each offense; and each and every day the
violation shall continue shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-19-2008; Ord. 2009-006, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2015-
001, passed 3-18-2015; Am. Ord. 2018-002, passed 3-20-2018)
CHAPTER 91: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Fireworks
Burning
   
91.15   Unlawful burning
   
91.16   Duty to report
   
91.17   Smoke
   
91.18   Repair and clean-up
   
91.19   Inspection of premises
   
91.20   Burn ban
   
91.21   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Offenses against public health and safety, see
Ch. 132
   Outdoor burning subject to the International Fire Code, see §
150.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Findings. All of the premises and findings of fact recited with the
ordinance codified herein are found to be true and correct and are incorporated
into the body of this section as if copied in their entirety.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIREWORKS. Any device that can be used to produce or intended for use in
obtaining visible or audible pyrotechnic display or a combination of those by
the combustion of explosive or flammable composition and includes any
firecrackers, cannon crackers, skyrockets, torpedoes, Roman candles, black
cats, sparklers, squibs, fire balloons, star shells or any other substance in
whatever combination by any designated name and includes all articles or
substances within the commonly accepted meaning of FIREWORKS, whether
specifically designated and defined in this section or not.
   (C)   Sale of fireworks authorized; permit required. Upon obtaining a permit
from the city, it shall be lawful within the city limits of the city to operate
or maintain a fireworks stand and to engage in the business of offering
fireworks for sale to the general public.
   (D)   Use of fireworks prohibited; declared a nuisance.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, discharge, ignite,
detonate, fire, light or otherwise set in action fireworks of any kind within
the city limits of the city; except that mass fireworks displays under the
supervision of Police and Fire Departments, may be held or performed by bonded
and insured persons within the city after obtaining approval from the City
Council.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian of any minor child
below the age of 18 years of age, to permit or allow such a minor child to use,
discharge, ignite, detonate, fire, light or otherwise set in action any
fireworks within the city limits of the city.
   (E)   Permit. Any person, entity or retailer engaged in the sale of
fireworks within the city limits of the city shall first seek approval from the
city by obtaining a permit. Approved permits shall cost $25 and be valid for
six months from the date of issuance.
(Ord. 2012-009, passed 8-21-2012) Penalty, see §
91.99
BURNING
§ 91.15 UNLAWFUL BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city limits, in any
way, to intentionally or carelessly burn or cause to be burned any
combustibles, including, but not limited to, grass, weeds, timber, rubbish,
leaves or other natural or synthetic materials, trash, rubbish, litter, solid
waste or any like substances on any street, alley, lot or premises. The
prohibited fires shall include bonfires and fires used for ceremonial purposes
not in compliance herewith.
   (B)   The following exceptions to burning will apply:
      (1)   Burning may be conducted for the purposes of cooking or heating in
an device designated for such a purpose by the manufacturer;
      (2)   Burning of grass, weeds, timber and/or leaves; and/or
      (3)   When approved by the Fire Chief, burning may be permitted in a
manner approved by the Fire Chief, provided a standby firefighter is present if
required by the Fire Chief. A permit shall be acquired and approved safety
measures shall be employed as detailed within the permit.
(Ord. 991025, passed 10-25-1999) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 DUTY TO REPORT.
   In the event of a fire or discovery of a fire or unauthorized smoke
discharge caused by a fire, burning or smoldering combustibles on any property,
the owner, occupant or person in control of the fire from which the fire or
smoke is emanating shall immediately report the condition to the local Fire
Department.
(Ord. 991025, passed 10-25-1999)
§ 91.17 SMOKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city limits, in any way, to
intentionally, negligently, recklessly, or carelessly burn or cause to be
burned any combustibles which causes noxious smoke or smoke of a significant
quantity or quality to be released so as to inhibit the use and enjoyment of
neighboring properties. Burning in violation of this section is hereby declared
a nuisance and is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 991025, passed 10-25-1999; Ord. 991214, passed 12-14-1999; Ord. 2008-011,
passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 REPAIR AND CLEAN-UP.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation responsible for any fire or
unauthorized smoke discharge shall institute and complete all actions necessary
to remedy the effects of such fire and/or smoke, whether sudden or gradual, at
no cost to the city.
   (B)   Whenever any building or other structure is partially burned, the
owner thereof or the person in charge or control thereof, within ten days after
notice from the Fire Chief, shall remove from the premises all refuse, debris,
charred and partially burned lumber and material. If the building or other
structure is burned to an extent that it is rendered incapable of being
repaired, the owner of the property upon which same is located or the person in
control thereof, within ten days after notice from the Fire Chief shall remove
from the premises all of the remaining portion of the building or structure.
   (C)   When deemed necessary by the Fire Chief, clean-up may be initiated by
the Fire Department or by an authorized individual or firm.
   (D)   All costs associated with the clean-up shall be borne by the owner,
operator, person in control of the property or other person responsible for the
fire or unauthorized discharge of smoke.
(Ord. 991025, passed 10-25-1999) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   A premise emanating fire or smoke shall be subject to inspection by the Fire
Chief, or authorized representative, at any reasonable hour, or at any hour in
cases of emergency.
(Ord. 991025, passed 10-25-1999)
§ 91.20 BURN BAN.
   (A)   During periods of time in which the County of Henderson, Texas
institutes a total burn ban for the entire county, the City of Trinidad
prohibits any outdoor burning, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
cause, suffer, allow, or permit any outdoor burning in the city for the
duration of the burn ban, except as provided in division (B)(2) below.
   (B)   (1)   A person violates this ordinance if he or she burns any
combustible material outside of an enclosure which serves to contain all flames
and/or sparks, or orders such burning by others.
      (2)   The following exceptions to division (A) and division (B)(1) will
apply:
         (a)   Burning may be conducted for the purpose of noncommercial
cooking or heating in a device designated for such a purpose by the
manufacturer, which to contain all flames and/or sparks.
         (b)   Burning may be permitted in a manner approved by the Fire Chief,
provided a firefighter is present if required by the Fire Chief and provided
that the proposed outdoor burning meets all requirements for a specific
exception to the prohibition on outdoor burning as allowed by Tex. Admin. Code,
Title 30, Ch. 111, as amended from time to time. A permit shall be required and
approved safety measures shall be employed as detailed within the permit. This
shall apply to bonfires and fires for ceremonial purposes not in compliance
herewith.
(Ord. 991025, passed 10-25-1999; Ord. 991214, passed 12-14-1999; Ord. 2008-011,
passed 10-21-2008)
§ 91.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   The civil and criminal provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by
those persons or agencies designated by municipal authority. It shall be a
violation of this subchapter to interfere with a firefighter in the performance
of his or her duties. As soon as possible, a duly commissioned peace officer
shall be sent to the scene to investigate the nature of the fire. If, in the
opinion of the officer on the scene and/or the Fire Chief, the goal of
prohibitions established by this order, the officer may, at his or her
discretion, notify the party about the provisions of this order and request
compliance with it. In such instances, an entry of this notification shall be
made in his or her log, and notice containing the date, time, and place of the
warning shall be forwarded to the office of the City Judge. At the discretion
of the officer and/or Fire Chief, second or flagrant violations of this order
may be prosecuted as a misdemeanor offense punishable by a fine not to exceed
$2,000.
(Ord. 991025, passed 10-25-1999; Ord. 991214, passed 12-14-1999; Ord. 2008-011,
passed 10-21-2008)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
91.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $2,000.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.21 or shall fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements
thereof, within the city limits shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall
be liable for a fine not to exceed the sum of $2,000. Each day the violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty shall be in addition to
all the other remedies provided herein.
      (2)   It shall be a violation of §§
91.15 through
91.21 to interfere with a firefighter in the performance of his or her duties.
As soon as possible, a duly commissioned peace officer shall be sent to the
scene to investigate the nature of the fire. If, in the opinion of the officer
on the scene and/or the Fire Chief, the goal of prohibitions established by
this order, the officer may, at his or her discretion, notify the party about
the provisions of this order and request compliance with it. In such instances,
an entry of this notification shall be made in his or her log, and notice
containing the date, time and place of the warning shall be forwarded to the
office of the City Judge. At the discretion of the officer and/or Fire Chief,
second or flagrant violations of this order may be prosecuted as a misdemeanor
offense punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 991025, passed 10-25-1999; Ord. 991214, passed 12-14-1999; Ord. 2012-009,
passed 8-21-2012)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND OTHER CITY FACILITIES AND LANDS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Streets and rights-of-way
   
92.03   Permits
   
92.04   Bond and liability
   
92.05   City facilities and lands
   
92.06   Duties and responsibilities
   
92.07   Right to inspect
   
92.08   Costs
   
92.09   City rights reserved
   
92.10   Enforcement
   
92.11   Court proceedings
   
92.12   Indemnity
   
92.13   Governmental immunity
Trinidad City Lake
   
92.25   Property
   
92.26   Closure of lake
   
92.27   Violations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Special provisions for construction in city streets and right-of-
way
Cross-reference:
   Vehicle load limits, see §§
70.55 through
70.62
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR or INSPECTOR. The person, his or her staff or employees,
or entity designated by the city to perform the duties and responsibilities set
forth herein to be performed by the city, or, if none has been designated, the
City Administrator.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY or WORK. Includes, but is not limited to, the causing
or carrying out of any human-made change in any property or facility through
building, erecting, installing, bulkheading, filling, mining, dredging,
clearing, paving, grading, excavating, boring, drilling or the addition,
removal or alteration of any facility or any improvement to property, including
altering of the size of any facilities, or other similar work or activity in,
over, under, through, along or across the rights-of-way or streets within the
city limits.
   CONTRACTOR. Includes, but is not limited to, the person possessing a permit,
franchise or license agreement as required under this subchapter and all
persons actually performing, directing, monitoring, managing or overseeing any
construction activity, work or other similar activity in, over, under, through,
along or across any streets or rights-of-way within the city limits.
   EXCAVATION. Any human-made formation of a cavity, hole or hollow by way of
any means of digging, plowing, quarrying, uncovering, blasting, scooping,
drilling, dredging, bulldozing, relocating or making cuts, openings, borings or
other action or processes to form a cavity, hole or hollow.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any plant, equipment and property, including, but
not limited to, duct spaces, manholes, poles, towers, utility pipes, pipes,
conduits, lines, wires, transmission media, underground and overhead
passageways or other equipment, structures and appurtenances which are located
in, over, under, through, along or across the rights-of-way or streets.
   INSTALLATION. The addition, removal, repair or alteration of any facility
located in, over, under, through, along or across the rights-of-way or streets.
   OWNER. Any person having financial interests in property or facilities
located in, over, under, through, along or across streets and rights-of-way in
the city, including the person directing the actions of any contractor, paying
a contractor or for whose benefit the actions of the contractor are undertaken.
   PERMANENT STRUCTURE. Any facility located in, over, under, through, along or
across the rights-of-way or streets within the city limits that occupies,
affixes or otherwise is to remain in the same location for a period of time of
more than 30 days.
   PERSON. An individual human, partnership, company, limited liability
partnership or other partnership or other company, joint venture, joint stock
company, association, legal entity or corporation of any kind, including, but
not limited to, any provider of any utility service or public service, as those
terms are defined below, but excluding electric utilities that have a
certificate of convenience and necessity from the Public Utility Commission of
the state to operate within the city that also have a franchise that authorizes
them to utilize the city's rights-of-way.
   PUBLIC SERVICE. Any business or commercial activity which is not included in
the definition of UTILITY SERVICE that requires the use of the public streets
or rights-of-way for the location of any facility or equipment to provide
services to persons or property situated within the city, including, but not
limited to, cable television service and services using a transmission media,
but excluding telephone, taxi service and solid waste collection.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The surface of, and the space above and below, any and all
present and future public thoroughfares, public utility easements, public ways,
public grounds, public waterways and without limitation by the foregoing, any
other public property within the corporate limits of the city.
   STREETS. The surface of, and the space above and below, any and all present
and future public streets, avenues, highways, boulevards, drives, roads,
bridges, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public roadways within the city
limits and any highways, county roads or other public roadways for which the
city has an agreement or contract to control, regulate or maintain.
   TRANSMISSION MEDIA. All cables, fibers, wires, tubes, pipes or other
physical devices used to transmit and/or receive communication signals, whether
analog, digital or of other characteristics, and whether for voice, video or
data, or other purposes, which are physically located in the rights-of-way or
streets.
   UTILITY SERVICE. Its common meaning and shall specifically include, but not
be limited to, electric, water, wastewater, gas and telephone service.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006; Ord. 2006-007, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 92.02 STREETS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The city shall have exclusive dominion, control and jurisdiction in,
over, under, through, along and across the streets and rights-of-way, and may
provide for the improvement thereof by paving, re-paving, raising, draining,
realigning, closing or otherwise the use thereof. The provisions, without
limitations, of law providing for assessments against abutting property for
street improvements are expressly adopted. The exclusive dominion, control and
jurisdiction in, over, under, through, along and across the streets and rights-
of-way of the city shall also include, but not be limited to, the power to
regulate, locate, remove or prohibit the location, installation, alteration or
removal of any type of facility or other property in, over, under, through,
along or across any streets or rights-of-way. The location, alteration or
removal, including the route, of all facilities within the rights-of-way or
streets shall be subject to the reasonable direction of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or contractor, including his or her
agents, servants, independent contractors or employees to occupy or obstruct
any portion of the right-of-way or streets or to perform any construction
activity, or to cause another to do the same, for any purpose in, over, under,
through, along or across any street or right-of-way without first having made
all applications for permits and, when required, obtained all permits
therefore, together with a bond approved by the Building Inspector in an amount
determined as herein provided, conditioned that the principal therein will
discharge all claims of every character arising from or occasioned by the
occupancy or construction activity or by reason of damages or injuries
sustained by persons or property because of the occupancy, construction
activity, excavation or other activity thereon and discharge all judgments
obtained, together with all costs attached thereto against the city by reason
of any claim, injury or damage sustained. The contractor and owner carrying on
any construction activity or excavation shall keep all streets and rights-of-
way adjacent to the construction activity or excavation carried on by the
contractor or owner, in a clean, safe and orderly condition, and unobstructed,
except as provided in this subchapter, during all such activities, and shall
restore all streets, rights-of-way, facilities and other structures damaged,
altered or injured, in any way, to as good condition as they were before the
beginning of the activities. The owner or contractor may, in lieu of providing
a separate bond on each permit or construction project, annually file with the
city a bond providing the above required coverage to the city, which bond shall
be and remain in effect for a term of one year and applicable to all work
performed by the owner or contractor within the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or occupy any street or
right-of-way for the purpose of providing abutting, adjoining or other property
with any utility service, public service, data, voice or video transmission
service, cable television, taxi or solid waste collection service, without
having first obtained a franchise or license issued and approved by the City
Council, except as specifically provided otherwise by state law.
   (D)   Construction activity, excavation, obstruction or other work shall
cease immediately upon the issuance of a stop work order from the Building
Inspector or from any authorized law enforcement agent of the city. It shall be
unlawful to remove a stop work order placed upon a construction or work site
until compliance with this chapter has been accomplished. No work so ordered to
stop shall commence after issuance of the stop work order until the violation
has been corrected and the Building Inspector in writing authorizes the
contractor to begin again.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any
person, contractor or owner to maintain an existing excavation within the city
or to work upon or assist in any way in the execution or operation of any
excavation, without an excavation permit having been issued by the city in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building or property
abutting on any street or right-of-way in the city, or any tenant occupying the
building or property, or any other person, to construct, build, operate or
maintain any building, facility or part thereof, including a show window, which
extends over any part of any street or right-of-way.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to erect, remove, repair, install, build or
alter, in any fashion whatsoever, any posts, poles, towers or other facilities
that are erected for the purpose of bearing wires, cables or any other
transmission media, or to alter in any fashion any existing posts, poles,
towers or other facilities that are used in connection with any telegraph,
electric light, telephone, street railway, transmission media, radio or like
purpose, and none shall be erected, placed, kept or maintained upon any street
or right-of-way within the city, unless a written permit shall have first been
obtained from the Building Inspector to erect, install, remove, repair, build
or alter, in any fashion whatsoever, the posts, poles, towers or other
facility.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 PERMITS.
   Application for a permit required by §
92.02 shall be addressed to the City Secretary and made on a form furnished for
that purpose, detailing the extent, character and purpose of any construction
activity or other work to be performed.
   (A)   Permits required. The owner or contractor for all construction
activity, installations and similar activities must have applied for and have
been issued all of the permits required for the work. A permit shall not be
required from any holder of a franchise, license or holder of a permanent
occupation permit to perform any minor alteration of an existing facility
necessary to initiate service, repair service or for routine maintenance to an
individual customer's property unless the repair or maintenance requires
excavation or temporary closure of nonresidential traffic lanes. The types of
activities which must have a permit issued pursuant to this chapter are as
follows.
      (1)   Excavation of right-of-way or street. Any person considering
excavation, cutting, boring, digging or demolition activity in, over, under,
through, along or across the streets or rights-of-way shall, in advance of
same, submit a design plan to the city for review and comment and shall secure
proper permits and/or approvals and pay the fees as required.
      (2)   Construction activity in right-of-way or street. Any person
considering adding, repairing, removing or altering any facility or foliage,
whether owned by the person or not, in, over, under, through, along or across
the streets or rights-of-way within the city limits shall in advance of same,
submit a design plan to the city for review and comment and shall secure proper
permits and/or approvals and pay the fees as required.
      (3)   Permanent structures occupying rights-of-way or streets. The owner
of all permanent structures, appurtenances or facilities, located in, over,
under, through, along or across the streets or rights-of-way shall, in advance
of installation, placement or construction thereof, submit a design plan and
specifications as required herein and as required by the Building Inspector for
review and comment, and shall secure the proper permits and/or approvals and
pay fees as required. The owners of permanent structures, appurtenances or
facilities located in, over, under, through, along or across the streets or
rights-of-way at the time of passage of this subchapter shall have 60 days to
submit an application for a permit and secure the permit before enforcement
action may be taken. One application may include all the owner's permanent
structures, appurtenances and facilities that are located in, over, under,
through, along or across the streets or rights-of-way of the city.
      (4)   Temporary obstruction of the right-of-way or street. Any person
desiring to temporarily occupy or obstruct any portion of any street or right-
of-way for the purpose of placing thereon material or rubbish for or from
construction activities, obstructing any portion of any street or right-of-way
for any purpose whatsoever connected with any construction activities or
erection, installation, removal, alteration or repair of any facility or other
structure or excavation that will temporarily obstruct any street or right-of-
way, shall apply to the Building Inspector for a permit for the temporary
obstruction and shall secure the proper permits, approvals and pay fees as
required.
   (B)   Permit fees. In the event an application is made for a permit to
perform any construction activity in any of the streets or rights-of-way, the
permit shall be subject to the following permit fees to cover the costs and
expenses of the city. Acceptance of any permit shall constitute an acceptance
by the permittee of the conditions of the permit and any of the obligations and
duties to repair any cut, damage, injury or excavation in full compliance with
the requirements set forth in
Appendix A at the end of this chapter. Payment for each permit shall be made
with the application for the permit. No permit shall be issued for less than
the required permit fee.
      (1)   Construction permit minimum fee. The fee for each permit required
pursuant to this chapter for any construction activities, other than
excavations, including but not limited to, installation, removal, repair,
addition or other alteration of any facilities or foliage in the rights-of-way
or streets shall be $250, plus the amount of any other permit fees and any
engineering or other professional fees reasonably incurred by the city for and
with respect to the permit. In the event that the permit is recommended for
issuance, an additional fee of $50 per calendar month for the duration of the
permit shall be paid in advance prior to issuance of the permit for the purpose
of inspecting the site during the construction process.
      (2)   Excavation permit minimum fee. The fee for each permit required
pursuant to this chapter for any drilling, boring, cutting or otherwise any
excavation of any portion of the rights-of-way or streets shall be $250, plus
the amount of any other permit fees and any engineering or other professional
fees reasonably incurred by the city for and with respect to the permit. In the
event that the permit is recommended for issuance, an additional fee of $50 per
calendar month for the duration of the permit shall be paid in advance prior to
issuance of the permit for the purpose of inspecting the site during the
excavation process.
      (3)   Professional fees. In addition to the above permit fees, the city
shall be fully reimbursed for all reasonable costs associated with activities
in the streets or rights-of-way pursuant to this chapter that require
inspection, plan review or any other reasonable overview or action by an
engineer or other professional. All engineer and other professional fees shall
be paid prior to issuance of a permit. Permits shall not be issued to, and may
not be maintained by, any person owing engineer or other professional fees to
the city.
      (4)   Plumbing permits fees. Any person who desires to install, repair or
alter any pipes lines, tubes or pipes for which any water, solid waste, gas,
oil or other product may flow, in or under the rights-of-way or streets shall
submit to the Building Inspector the plans and specifications showing the
proposed improvements. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector, when the
plans and specifications have been submitted, to cause a qualified plumbing
inspector to make an inspection of the proposed improvements. An inspection fee
equal to the estimated time required for the inspections multiplied by 1.2
times the cost per hour of the plumbing inspector shall be paid by the
applicant before the permit is issued.
      (5)   Electrical permit fees. Any person who desires to build, erect,
alter, install, repair or remove any poles, posts, towers or other similar
facilities for which any wires, cables, electrical wires or transmission media
are located or will be located shall submit to the Building Inspector plans and
specifications showing the proposed improvements and existing conditions on the
poles, posts, towers or such similar facility. It shall be the duty of the
Building Inspector, when the plans and specifications have been submitted, to
cause a qualified electrical inspector to make an inspection of the proposed
improvements. An inspection fee equal to the estimated time required for the
inspections multiplied by 1.2 times the cost per hour of the electrical
inspector shall be paid by the applicant before the permit is issued.
      (6)   Certificate of occupation fees. The fee for each certificate of
occupation required pursuant to this chapter for a permanent structure to
occupy any right-of-way or streets shall be $1, per year per linear foot of
street or right-of-way so occupied and the fee shall be paid in advance
annually from the original date of the issuance of the certificate of
occupation.
      (7)   Fee for temporary obstruction of the right-of-way. A fee and
special assessment for temporary obstruction or occupation of any right-of-way
or street shall be $100 per day of obstruction, to reimburse the city for costs
of increased supervision and overview of the sight while the obstruction
exists, plus any costs or charges for special assignment of police officers to
monitor, escort or otherwise provide services to help protect the public from
the construction activities or excavation and any other similar expenses
reasonably incurred by the city for and with respect to the temporary
obstruction. The requirement shall not excuse, diminish or waive the duty of
the owner or contractor to conduct any such obstruction or excavation, and to
erect warning signs, devices and barricades, in a manner to protect the general
public, pedestrians and motorist.
   (C)   Duration. All activities or construction authorized by a permit issued
under this subchapter shall be commenced within six months after the date of
issuance of the permit and thereafter be continuously prosecuted to completion,
or the permit shall be void and the person to whom the permit was issued must
make a new application before commencing or continuing any further activities
or construction. Each permit issued shall be issued for a specific time period
with a maximum period of one year, after which period the permit shall be void
and the person to whom the permit was issued must make a new application for a
new permit for each succeeding year or portion thereof. If the permit is
allowed to expire, the person shall apply for and procure a new permit, paying
the fee therefore as before, prior to proceeding with any work.
   (D)   Applications. Applications for permits required by this subchapter
shall be made to the Building Inspector and must be made in writing by the
person to do the work, the contractor, or his or her authorized agent, that
will be submitted in duplicate upon forms provided to the Building Inspector
for that purpose. An application for the permit may be deposited at the office
of the City Secretary for delivery to and action by the Building Inspector. The
application shall contain:
      (1)   Date application is submitted; name, address, phone, fax and other
pertinent information of owner(s) and name of all contractor(s), including
subcontractors, employed or that will be employed, to perform any portion of
any construction activity or excavation; name of person actually presenting the
application to the Inspector; name, address, phone, fax and other pertinent
information of the person(s) designated to be the 24-hour contact or emergency
contact at all times while the permit is active [the applicant must immediately
notify the Building Inspector in writing, if the emergency contact changes, and
no later than 24 hours after the change, to maintain an active permit]; exact
location and legal description of any property, streets or rights-of-way where
the construction activities or excavation is proposed to occur; to the extent
that information can be reasonably obtained, all design plans shall show the
location of other permanent structures, facilities and utilities which will be
crossed or paralleled within eight feet of the location of the proposed
permanent structure and identify the owner(s) thereof, including the topography
of the area to be affected, and other development and protective measures,
considered necessary to create a reasonable transition to, and protection of,
the adjacent property and facilities;
      (2)   A fee, appropriate to the number and kinds of installations,
alterations, removals or construction activities to be made or activities to be
performed;
      (3)   Proof of liability insurance or bond in the amount of not less than
$500,000 personal injury and property damage:
         (a)   An applicant must provide proof of liability insurance in the
required amount;
         (b)   The coverage must be on an "occurrence" basis and must include
coverage for personal injury, contractual liability, premises liability,
medical damages, underground, explosion and collapse hazards as applicable to
the size and type of project;
         (c)   Each policy must include a cancellation provision in which the
insurance company is required to notify the city in writing not fewer than 30
days before canceling, failing to renew or reducing policy limits; and
         (d)   The applicant shall file the required original certificate of
insurance or bond prior to any commencement of work.
      (4)   A description of the work to be performed. Where deemed necessary
by the Inspector to accomplish the objectives of this subchapter, applications
shall be accompanied by as many copies of specifications, plans and a complete
layout drawn to scale and in detail to show the nature and character of the
work to be performed as the Inspector may deem necessary. The plan or diagram
shall show the manner in which the installations or construction activities are
to be made or the character of any of the repairs to existing installations or
construction activities. When the plans, specifications and layout are
demanded, it shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to perform
construction activities or install any part of the electrical, plumbing,
cables, facilities or structure or perform further excavation or construction
activity until the appropriate inspector approves the installation or
construction activity;
      (5)   Estimated duration of any construction activity, installation and/
or excavation which will result in the disturbance or modification of any
rights-of-way, streets or property and the exact locations for each such
disruption or disturbance, including an estimation of the duration of each
disruption or disturbance at each location;
      (6)   Excavations. If any site is to be excavated the application must
include:
         (a)   The purpose or reason for the removing or moving of the soil;
         (b)   The quantity in cubic yards of soil to be moved or removed;
         (c)   The location where the soil will be move or deposited;
         (d)   Identification of each building, residence or structure within
150 feet of the proposed excavation;
         (e)   A positive statement that the proposed excavation shall not
block, encumber or close any street or disturb the lateral support thereof;
         (f)   A positive statement that the proposed excavation is not and
shall not be located in an area which has a public record restrictions or
covenants prohibiting such a use of the property;
         (g)   The proposed slopes and lateral supports to be used in the
excavation shall be set forth;
         (h)   The present and proposed arrangements made for surface water
drainage;
         (i)   The safety precautions to be installed and maintained at the
site, such as fences around the excavation, traffic control devices and
drainage systems to keep the excavation from collecting water within or
creating a hazard to workers, travelers and citizens;
         (j)   Specifications of all materials to be used in repair of the
excavation;
         (k)   The intended use or condition of the land upon completion of the
excavation process; and
         (l)   Other pertinent data as the Building Inspector may require.
      (7)   Permanent structure. If a permanent structure is to be added or
remain within any street or right-of-way, the owner(s) of the structure must
complete an application for certificate of occupation for the permanent
occupation of the right-of-way, including:
         (a)   The person or firm which will operate or maintain the permanent
structure;
         (b)   The origin point and the destination of the permanent structure;
         (c)   A description of the substance to be transported through the
permanent structure;
         (d)   Engineering plans, drawings and/or maps with summarized
specifications showing the horizontal and vertical location of all permanent
structures, including covering depths, poles, towers and the like and the
location of any shutoff valves or other disconnect locations, where applicable.
If the city has computer generated mapping system, the applicant will provide
final as built plans in a format compatible with uploading into the city's
system;
         (e)   A description of the consideration given to matters of public
safety and the avoidance, as far as practicable, of existing inhibited
structures and congregated areas;
         (f)   Detailed cross section drawings of all streets, rights-of-way
and easement crossings to be affected;
         (g)   The design criteria under which the permanent structure will be
constructed and maintained; and
         (h)   Any other pertinent data as the Building Inspector may
reasonably require.
      (8)   Certificate telecommunications provider. If the applicant for a
permit purports to be a telecommunications entity, in addition to the above
required information the application shall include:
         (a)   Specifications as to the form of transmission media to be
utilized;
         (b)   Design plans and specification concerning the transmission
media;
         (c)   A copy of the certificate of convenience and necessity,
certificate of operating authority or service provider certificate of operating
authority from the Public Utilities Commission authorizing local exchange
telephone service in the city;
         (d)   Verification of current payment of all fees and right-of-way
fees to the Public Utilities Commission; and
         (e)   Other pertinent information as the Inspector may reasonably
require.
   (E)   Review of application. The City Council shall have the power and
reserves the authority to refuse to issue a permit under this subchapter,
including a certificate of occupation, to any person, contractor or owner who
has not complied with this subchapter, has previously failed to comply with the
terms, requirements or standards of any prior permit issued for a similar
project, or who has failed to provide insurance and bond as required.
Additionally, the City Council shall have the power and reserves the authority
to refuse any permit, or to modify or amend any application for permit, where
the particular location, by reason of the nature of the particular location,
the character and value of the permanent improvements already erected on or
approximately adjacent to the particular location, and the use of which the
land and surroundings, when in the Building Inspector's opinion, or on appeal
to the City Council in the City Council's opinion, the excavating, operation of
an excavation or addition or alteration of any such proposed facility on the
particular location or construction activity would constitute a nuisance, be
injurious to public health, be a public hazard to the inhabitants as a whole,
or to a substantial number of its inhabitants or travelers, or be a
disadvantage to the city in its planned growth, or otherwise have a negative
impact on the property values of property within the city.
   (F)   Factors to be considered. In considering and reviewing all plans
submitted and applications for permits, including a certificate of occupation,
the Building Inspector shall be guided by the general purpose of orderly
municipal planning, avoiding conditions or the doing of any act constituting or
creating a nuisance, health hazard or endangering the public safety. As aids in
accomplishing these purposes, the following points shall be considered by the
Inspector in reviewing applications for permits; however, the aids shall not be
exclusive in the Inspector's consideration and ultimate recommendation:
      (1)   The plan's compliance with all provisions of this subchapter and
other ordinances of the city;
      (2)   The environmental impact of the development relating to the
preservation of existing natural resources on the site and the impact on the
natural resources of the surrounding properties and neighborhood;
      (3)   The relationship of the development to adjacent uses in terms of
harmonious use and design, maintenance of property values and negative impacts;
      (4)   The provision of a safe and efficient vehicular and pedestrian
circulation system;
      (5)   Surface water drainage and water drainage facilities of the
excavation or installation, including soil and earth erosion by water and wind;
      (6)   Lateral supports of the excavation, including protections for
existing buildings, facilities, streets and other property to be affected
thereby;
      (7)   Conditions in which the excavation, construction activities or
installation are to be maintained and safeguards to be taken to prohibit
creating a nuisance, health or safety hazard, attractiveness to children and
features provided to dispense with the endangering of the lives and property of
the public;
      (8)   Proposed use or condition of land upon completion of excavation
process, construction activity or installation;
      (9)   Protection, access and encumbrance such installation, construction
activity or excavation will have upon existing facilities and the location of
the facilities in reference to the proposed excavation or installation,
including the size, quantity, location and permanent nature of the all
facilities currently located or proposed to be located therein; and
      (10)   Other facts as may bear or relate to the coordinated, adjusted and
harmonious physical development of the city. In arriving at the ultimate
recommendation, the Inspector may attach special conditions thereto as may be
reasonably necessary to attain the overall propose of this subchapter.
   (G)   Appeals. Appeals from the denial or granting of a permit, including a
certificate of occupation, shall be made to the City Council.
      (1)   If an application for a permit is refused, the applicant may, not
later than ten days from the date of receiving notice of the refusal, appeal to
the City Council by directing a letter to the City Council setting forth
therein the date of denial of the permit and the reasons the permit should be
granted.
      (2)   If the Inspector grants the permit, any citizen of the city who is
or may be injured or damaged thereby may, within ten days of the recommendation
to grant the permit, appeal to the granting of the permit to the City Council,
by directing a letter to the City Council addressed to the office of the City
Secretary, at the City Hall, setting forth therein the date of the action by
the Inspector and the reasons the person appealing believes that he or she has
been or will be injured by the action from which he or she is taking the
appeal.
      (3)   Upon the filing of the appeal, the right to operate under any such
permit shall be suspended until final determination by the City Council.
      (4)   The City Council shall, on receiving the notice of appeal, direct
the City Secretary to place it on the City Council's work agenda to be
considered in the due order of city business. The City Secretary shall then
notify the applicant and any other appellant as to the date and place where the
City Council will consider the appeal and publish a notice one time in the
official newspaper at least five days before the date when the City Council
will consider the appeal.
      (5)   The City Council on considering the appeal may, by majority vote of
all members in attendance and voting, either grant or refuse to grant the
permit. The decision of the City Council shall be the final decision and
binding on all parties.
   (H)   Conditions of permit. All permits, including certificates of
occupation, shall be issued based upon the representations made within the
application for the permit, information provided from the applicant,
information known to the Inspector and/or City Council, and all plans and
specifications submitted with the application. Violations of any conditions of
the permit or the general conditions listed herein shall constitute a
forfeiture of all rights and privileges granted by the permit(s). The following
general conditions of permit are in addition to the specific conditions
identified in the specific permit.
      (1)   Permit holders may not deviate from the plans and specifications
approved with the permit without prior written permission from the Building
Inspector and amendment of the permit.
      (2)   Permit holders must comply at all times with the requirements of
this subchapter and other applicable city ordinances as well as state and
federal laws.
      (3)   No permit issued under the terms of this subchapter shall ever be
transferred, sold, assigned or otherwise disposed of in any manner to any other
person without the written consent of the Building Inspector.
      (4)   No permit shall be issued for less than the required permit fees.
      (5)   Bonds must be maintained at all times applicable to the permitted
project.
      (6)   All applications for permit must contain complete and accurate
information, plans and specifications for the project.
      (7)   No work shall be done under any permit issued under this subchapter
except as stated in the permit and in compliance with state and federal laws.
The permittee shall ensure compliance at all times therewith.
      (8)   The Building Inspector shall at all times have authority to inspect
the project site and stop all work not in conformity with the permit,
ordinances of the city, or state or federal law. A copy of all permits shall be
maintained at the construction site and made available for inspection at all
times when construction or installation work is occurring. It shall be a
violation of this subchapter to interfere with a Building Inspector in the
performance of his or her duties.
      (9)   Any changes to the information provided in the application approved
by the Building Inspector must be submitted to the Building Inspector within 72
hours after the information has changed to amend the permit and, if the changes
are of a sufficient degree to cause reconsideration, the Building Inspector
shall have the same authority as in an original application to approve or deny
the amendments.
      (10)   Approval of a permit does not constitute an agreement to undertake
construction activities contrary to state, federal or city requirements.
      (11)   No permanent structure shall remain in the rights-of-way or street
without all proper permits and a current occupation permit authorizing
permanent occupation.
   (I)   Revocation of permit. Any permit, including a certificate of
occupation, issued under this subchapter may be canceled if a notice to cease
operations or activities thereunder is issued, and the notice is not
immediately complied with. Any such non-compliance shall constitute grounds for
immediate revocation of any and all permits, or portions thereof, for the
project, when the following conditions exist:
      (1)   A violation of any condition of the permit;
      (2)   A violation of any provisions of this subchapter or any other
applicable ordinance or law relating to the specifications of the permit,
excavations, construction or installation of the type of facility being
installed, repaired, altered or removed;
      (3)   Failure to cease construction activities or correct such violations
as directed by the Building Inspector; or
      (4)   The existence of any condition or the doing of any act constituting
or creating a nuisance or endangering the lives or property of others.
   (J)   Appeals from permit revocation or other action. A permit holder,
including a person having certificate of occupation, pursuant to this
subchapter, who is aggrieved by a revocation or any other action by the
Building Inspector regarding the permit, may appeal to the City Council. The
appeal shall be made by filing with the City Secretary a written notice thereof
within ten calendar days from the date of the revocation of the permit, or
other action appealed from, including, but not limited to, notices to repair
and stop work orders. A fee of $100 shall be collected for processing the
appeal. The aggrieved person shall be given a hearing before the City Council,
in due order of business, after which the City Council may affirm, modify or
overrule the Inspector's decision. Written notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be served upon the permit holder at least five days prior to the
date set for the hearing. Notice of the hearing may be given by personal
delivery thereof to the permit holder or by deposit in the United States mail
in a sealed envelope with postage prepaid, addressed to the person at the
address appearing in the application or notice of appeal. All work shall be
stopped at the construction site while the appeal is pending.
   (K)   Franchise holders. Utility service providers and public service
providers having a current franchise or license agreement with the city shall
be governed by the terms of the franchise or license agreement and shall not be
required to: obtain an additional certificate of occupation or permit; post
additional bond or insurance; and shall be exempt from paying any permit fees
when required hereby to obtain a permit; but shall otherwise be subject to,
bound and governed by each and every term and provision of this subchapter
except as explicitly exempted in the franchise or license agreement. Where the
terms and conditions of the franchise or license agreement conflict with the
provisions of this subchapter, the terms and conditions of the franchise or
license agreement shall govern. Unless otherwise exempted by a current
franchise, license agreement or state law, the utility service provider or
public service provider shall:
      (1)   Complete all applications for permits required herein but shall not
be required to pay the fees;
      (2)   Provide the city the information required in the application;
      (3)   Coordinate with the city as directed by the Building Inspector
based upon the size of the project and construction activities; and
      (4)   Apply for all permits not less than five working days prior to
commencing any activity for which a permit must be issued as required by this
subchapter; and provide an estimation of time for completion of each project.
   (L)   Exception to certain fees. Telecommunication entities that are
certificated telecommunications providers, certificated by the state to service
the city, and that pay the city compensation as required by Tex. Loc. Gov't
Code Ch. 283, shall be exempt from the fees as are set forth therein upon
verification from the Public Utilities Commission that the telecommunications
entity seeking a permit is, at the time of application, a certificated provider
holding a current certificate of convenience and necessity to service the city,
and is paying the city compensation as required by Chapter 283. The
telecommunications entity shall be subject to all other provisions of this
subchapter for which the entity is not exempt.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006)
§ 92.04 BOND AND LIABILITY.
   A person considering any construction activity, installation of facilities,
excavation, cutting, boring, digging or demolition activity in, over, under,
through, along or across the streets or rights-of-way within the city, and who
is not under a written contract, franchise, license or other express written
agreement with the city, shall post a bond, make a cash deposit with the city,
or provide other suitable forms of financial security as determined by the
Building Inspector in an amount that approximates the projected costs of
inspection, observation, labor, equipment, materials, and overhead associated
with the permit work, and the restoration, reconstruction and repair of the
cut, work or excavation in compliance with the standards and requirements set
forth in
Appendix A at the end of this chapter. The security shall be posted prior to
the issuance of a permit and the start of construction.
   (A)   Bond required. A good and sufficient bond shall be filed with the
application for the permit required by this subchapter, executed by a bonding
company, which bond shall be approved by the Building Inspector as to form and
sufficiency and shall be in the sum of not less than $2,000. The bond shall be
conditioned, among other things, that the contractor shall faithfully, at his
or her own expense, furnish all proper materials, tools and appliances, and
perform, execute, construct and complete all such work undertaken by the
contractor, and observe and comply with the specifications, requirements and
provisions of this subchapter. The bond shall be and remain in effect at all
times in which the excavation or construction activities are commenced or in
progress.
   (B)   Maintenance provisions in bond.
      (1)   Every permittee issued a permit under this subchapter shall be
bound and obligated to construct all work, and use the materials in the
construction thereof, so that the same shall be in as good or better condition
that prior to the work, and will remain in such as good or better condition for
and during a period of not less than one year from and after the date of
completion of the work, free from all cracks, breaks, disintegration, undue
wear, scaling or departures from true line or grade, or other defects which
might impair the permanence or usefulness of the work or construction activity
or surrounding facilities, streets or rights-of-way; however, such cracks as
may appear in expansion joints, or cuts between blocks, shall not be deemed to
be defects unless, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the cracks are
excessive in opening or deflecting of surface.
      (2)   Each bond issued pursuant to this subchapter shall continue in
effect for and during the maintenance period of one year following the
completion of the work, construction activity or repair.
      (3)   Each bond issuer shall promptly adjust, pay and settle all
legitimate claims for damages or injuries that may result by reason of
carelessness or negligence in the manner of performing the work, construction
activity or excavation, or by reason of any defects therein caused or arising
from careless, negligent or imperfect construction or repair thereof.
      (4)   Each permittee and bond issuer shall hold the city free and
harmless from liability on all claims for damages that are based upon, that
arise from, or that are related to, the work or construction, or the condition
thereof during the maintenance period, or that arise by reason of carelessness
or negligence of the permittee, owner or contractor, in the manner of
performing the work, construction activity or excavation, or by reason of any
defects therein caused or arising from careless, negligent or imperfect
construction or repair thereof, or otherwise by reason of the work or
construction.
   (C)   Withdrawal of surety on bond. On written notice to the Building
Inspector and the contractor, any surety on a bond issued pursuant to this
subchapter may withdraw from all liability thereon on account of any and all
future work undertaken by the contractor and for which excavation or
construction activity was not begun before the delivery of the notice. After
receipt of such, the contractor shall not begin any new work unless and until
the contractor shall provide and procure the approval of a new bond in the same
manner as required for the first bond. No bond or surety may be withdrawn after
the permitted work is commenced.
   (D)   Emergency conditions. In the event emergency conditions warrant
immediate response by an affected person, the Building Inspector may waive and/
or modify normal standard procedures outlined herein to promulgate standards or
requirements to expeditiously address the resolution of the emergency
conditions; provided that, in any such event, the contractor shall obtain a
permit for the work on the first business day of the city following performance
of the work.
   (E)   Decision binding on contractor and sureties. The decision of the
Building Inspector shall be binding and conclusive on the contractor and the
sureties on all bonds as to when any work or construction was actually
commenced.
   (F)   Liability of the contractor and sureties for defective work. A
contractor whose work, construction activities or excavations are completed, or
caused to by completed, by the city shall, on completion of the work and
receipt of a certified bill of the cost thereof approved by the City
Administrator, pay to the city, on its order, the cost of the work. The
sureties on the contractor's bond shall be liable for all items and amounts
listed in the certified bill of costs submitted to the contractor by the city.
In the event the contractor, or the surety on any bond, shall fail and refuse
to timely pay any certified bill to the city, the contractor and such surety
shall be and become liable to the city for its attorney fees and costs of
collection.
   (G)   Liability of contractor and sureties for maintenance and repair work.
If any defect in the work or construction develops during the one-year guaranty
period established by this subchapter, which, in the opinion of the Building
Inspector, is due in any measure to defects of workmanship or material, the
contractor shall remedy, repair and reconstruct the work, and/or any part
thereof, as may be required by the Building Inspector, and the work shall be
known as maintenance and repair work, and the surety on the contractor's bond
shall be fully liable for any default of the contractor under this section.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006)
§ 92.05 CITY FACILITIES AND LANDS.
   City facilities and lands shall not be altered, obstructed or occupied
without the express written permission of the city. Facilities not owned by the
city shall not be located closer than ten feet laterally, and shall not be
located above or below any city owned facility located underground, without
express written permission from the city. Additionally, no facilities may be
located in, over, under, through, along or across any parks, recreational land
or other similar city-owned property, which is not a street or street right-of-
way, without the express written permission of the city.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006)
§ 92.06 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The contractor and the owner, and any other person to whom a permit is
issued, shall, during the period for which the permit is issued, and as
provided in §
92.04, have all of the duties and responsibilities identified in this
subchapter, other applicable ordinances of the city, and as provided for in
state and federal law. The owner, its agents, assigns, contractors and
subcontractors installing the facilities, shall continually have the duties
identified in this subchapter for so long as facilities or property, under the
control of any owners, and any subsequent owners thereof, are located in the
rights-of-way or streets, to perform pursuant to the terms of this subchapter.
   (A)   Duty to barricade and protect. The owner and the contractor, and every
person to whom a permit is issued under this subchapter, shall have a duty to
ensure that each contractor, subcontractor, employee, agent or assignee, by
placing barriers, lights and other sufficient safeguards, including a
watchperson, if necessary, around all cuts, openings, excavations, installation
sight and materials, implements and tools used in connection with the
construction activity, and shall conform to the provisions of this subchapter
and all requirements of the Building Inspector during the prosecution and
completion of the work. All barricades and barriers shall be erected and
maintained in compliance with accepted industry practices and applicable safety
standards. The owner and the contractor shall be responsible for the costs and
expenses of all barricades, barriers and watchpersons:
      (1)   Prosecutes the work diligently and in a good and workmanlike
manner; and
      (2)   Safeguards and protects the public upon or using the street, right-
of-way or other place where the work is being performed, from accidents, injury
or damage.
   (B)   Supervision of work. It shall be the duty of the owner, the contractor
and the supervisor of the work site, who shall cause to be made any hole, cut,
trench, excavation, mound, embankment, installation or other obstruction in any
street or right-of-way, to carefully guard or cause to be guarded such hole,
trench, excavation, mound, embankment, installation or other obstruction while
the same may exist and not to suffer the same to remain beyond a time
reasonably sufficient for the completion of the construction or removal of the
obstruction, and to repair the portion of the street or right-of-way or any
facility or property affected thereby so as to restore the same to as good or
better condition than existed just previous to the activity.
   (C)   Duty to promptly repair. It shall be the duty of the owner, the
contractor and the supervisor of the work site, on whose behalf the hole,
trench, mound, excavation, construction activity, installation or other
obstruction or intrusion shall be made, or has been made, in the streets or
rights-of-way of the city, to protect the same while such condition exists and
to promptly repair the same so as to leave the street or right-of-way in as
good or better condition than as before the work. All facilities, streets,
sidewalks or other structures or property damaged, altered or injured, in any
fashion, shall be restored with similar material and workmanship to that
existing before the same was damaged, altered or injured through any actions of
the owner, contractor or person employed in any fashion thereby. All work shall
be done to the satisfaction of the Building Inspector whose duty it shall be to
inspect the same after it has been done.
   (D)   Removal and reconstruction where work defective. All construction
activities undertaken in the streets and rights-of-way of the city are declared
to be wholly subject to the exclusive control of the city, and whenever, in the
opinion of the Building Inspector, any work shall not have been duly completed
within a reasonable time or shall have been executed in a defective manner,
whether because of bad workmanship or material or because not true to lines or
grades or specifications required therefor, then upon written demand or notice
from the Building Inspector, the contractor or the owner shall promptly remedy,
complete or remove and reconstruct the incomplete or defective construction all
as the Building Inspector may require, and these provisions shall also
comprehend and apply to all repairs, installations and maintenance activities.
If the contractor or owner shall fail or refuse so to do within a reasonable
time as specified in writing by the Building Inspector, then, if the Building
Inspector shall so order, the work may, at the expense of the owner and
contractor, be completed, corrected or removed and wholly or partially
reconstructed by the city, or its instance, in such manner as in the opinion of
the Building Inspector may be necessary to make the work as good as originally
required, and the work may be done by contract or otherwise, under the
provision of this subchapter and the direction of the Building Inspector.
   (E)   Excavation. All excavations in the streets and rights-of-way are
declared to be wholly subject to the rules, regulations, directions and control
of the city, and whenever, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, any work
shall not be in compliance herewith, the permit, and
Appendix A at the end of this chapter, then upon written demand or notice from
the Building Inspector, the owner and contractor shall promptly remedy,
complete or fill the excavation all as the Building Inspector may require. All
excavations made into any street or right-of-way shall be repaired to as good
or better condition than the street, right-of-way or other property was in
prior to the excavation. Any excavation located in or over the rights-of-way or
streets within the city shall and does constitute a nuisance when maintained or
permitted to exist by any person in an unwholesome or nauseous condition, or in
a manner by which stagnant water accumulates, or in a manner in which water
collects where it is possible and probable stagnant water accumulates, or in a
manner in which water collects where it is possible and probable mosquitoes
will breed, or in a condition where rats could harbor, or in a manner and
condition constituting a breeding place for flies, or in a manner and condition
where filth, garbage, trash, debris or other discarded material accumulates and
is deposited, or is maintained or permitted to exist in an unfenced, open
condition, accessible to children or other members of the public, or is
maintained and worked in such a manner as to disturb, effect or destroy the
lateral support of or block or otherwise impede traffic on any street, alley,
road or rights-of-way, or that is maintained or permitted to exist in any
condition which constitutes a possible and probable medium of transmission of
disease to or between human beings, or to be maintained or permitted to exist
any one or more of the above-enumerated conditions.
   (F)   Relocation of facilities. All persons placing facilities in the right-
of-way or streets or owning, operating or maintaining facilities in, over,
under, through, along and across the rights-of-way or streets of the city shall
be responsible for the relocation and costs of relocation of the facilities
when the public health, safety or a public purpose requires relocation, or when
the facilities are located therein without a permanent occupation permit,
license or franchise as appropriate for the occupation.
      (1)   Permanent relocation. Upon 30-days written notice by the city, the
owner of a facility shall, at the owner's expense, begin relocation of its
facilities that are within a right-of-way or street, when deemed necessary by
the city for the public health or safety, or for any public purpose, or to
permit the widening, straightening or improvement of a street, drainage, water
or sewer project, or any other public works project. The notice by the city may
specify the new location for the owner's facilities along the rights-of-way or
streets. The city shall have the right to move any facilities within the
rights-of-way or streets to cure or otherwise address a public health or safety
concern, to accomplish a public purpose, or to widen, straighten or improve a
street, water or sewer projects or other public works projects, or when no
permit for occupation has been granted and the owner refuses to move the
facilities. The owner shall pay the costs and expenses of moving the
facilities.
      (2)   Temporary relocation. Upon 30-days' written notice by the city, the
owner of a facility shall temporarily relocate any portion of its facilities
within the rights-of-way or streets at the owner's own expense when deemed
essential by the city for the public's health and safety or to permit
construction activities of the city, or water or sewer projects or any other
public works project. The notice by the city shall specify the affected areas
where the facilities are located and the area for temporary relocation of the
owner's facilities along the rights-of-way or streets. The city shall have the
right to move any facilities within the rights-of-way or streets to cure or
otherwise address a public health or safety concern, to widen or straighten
streets, water or sewer projects or other public works projects or construction
activities where the owner refuses to move the facilities. The city shall
assess the reasonable costs and expenses of moving the facilities against the
owner.
   (G)   Temporary removal of aerial wires. The owner of aerial wires, on the
request of any person, shall remove or raise or lower aerial wires within the
city temporarily to permit the moving of houses or other bulky structures. The
expense of the temporary removal, raising or lowering of wires shall be paid by
the benefitted party or parties, and the owner of the wires may require the
payment in advance. The owner shall be given not less than five business days
advance notice to arrange for the temporary wire changes.
   (H)   Traffic interference. The owner and contractor shall endeavor to
minimize disruptions to the efficient use of the rights-of-way and streets by
pedestrians and vehicular traffic, and the rights-of-way and streets shall not
be blocked for a longer period than shall be reasonably necessary to execute
all construction, maintenance and/or repair work. Prior to blocking any street
or right-of-way the owner and/or contractor shall obtain a permit as required
herein.
   (I)   Maintenance of facilities. The owner of any facility and person
holding a certificate of occupancy, license or franchise shall be responsible
for ensuring the continued maintenance, repair, removal of any nuisances and
other upgrades or repairs to maintain the facility in a safe and good workman
like condition. Any vegetative growth interfering with the facilities that is
determined by the Building Inspector to be a nuisance shall be removed, cut or
cleared at the sole cost and expense of the owner of the facility or holder of
the certificate of occupancy, license or franchise. Circumstances and
conditions that impose an threat to the public health, safety or welfare shall
be promptly remedied by the owner, and a known emergency condition that exists
and is determined to require immediate attention so as not to reasonably allow
for notice under this section may be immediately abated by the city, and notice
of the abatement and costs for the expenses incurred will be forwarded to the
owner or holder of the certificate of occupation, franchise or license for
reimbursement to the city as required in §
92.08.
   (J)   Tree trimming. The owner of facilities located within the rights-of-
way or streets shall not trim any trees upon or overhanging the rights-of-way
without first obtaining a permit as provided herein. All activities and costs
necessary to protect and preserve the facilities from damage due to trees shall
be the responsibility of the owner of the facilities.
   (K)   Violations; notice; failure to abate.
      (1)   In the event the Building Inspector shall determine that a
situation exists which is an immediate threat to the health, safety and well-
being of the general public and that immediate action is necessary, the
Building Inspector may take action as shall be necessary, including issuing
citations for violations of the terms and provisions hereof to the owner or
contractor committing the violation.
      (2)   In the event the Building Inspector determines a situation
constitutes an immediate threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and
the owner or contractor is absent or fails to immediately remedy the situation,
the City Administrator may, upon evidence heard, determine that an emergency
exists and order action as may be required to protect the public health, safety
and welfare, including ordering repair or abatement of the nuisance. In such
event, the city may also prosecute an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction to recover its costs.
      (3)   In the event any owner or contractor shall fail or refuse to remedy
any of the conditions or violations indicated by the Building Inspector within
ten days after notice is sent, or immediately if determined by the city to be
an emergency and the owner or contractor is absent or fails to immediately
respond, the city may do the work or cause the same to be done, and pay
therefore, and charge the expenses in doing or having the work done or
improvements made, to the owners of the facility, or the contractor performing
construction activities, whereupon the charge shall be a personal liability of
the owner and/or the contractor to the city.
      (4)   Notices served upon an owner or contractor may be verbal, or may be
served on the owner or contractor by an officer or employee of the city
delivering a written notice to an employee or officer of the owner or
contractor at his, her or their respective place of business, or may be by
letter addressed to the owner or contractor at their post office address, or if
personal service may not be had, or the owner and contractor's address be not
known, then notice may be given by publishing a brief summary of the order at
least once in the official newspaper of the city, by posting a notice on or
near the site or location of each facility or property upon which the violation
relates, or by posting notice on a placard attached to a stake driven into the
ground on the property or facility to which the violation relates and addressed
"Facility Improvements", "To Whom It May Concern" and the publication shall be
deemed sufficient notice.
      (5)   In the event any owner or contractor is mailed a notice in
accordance with division (D) above and the United States Postal Service returns
the notice as "refused" or "unclaimed" the validity of the notice is not
affected, and the notice is considered as delivered.
      (6)   Notices provided by mail or by posting as set forth above may
provide for year round abatement of the nuisance and inform the owner that
should the owner commit any other violation of the same kind that pose a danger
to the public health and safety on or before the first anniversary of the date
of the notice, the city without further notice may abate the violation at the
owner's expense and assess the costs against the property.
      (7)   Appeals from a decision of the Building Inspector identifying a
violation or nuisance shall be filed in writing with the City Secretary within
five days after the notice to abate a nuisance or notice of a violation of this
subchapter is given. The procedures for appeal shall otherwise be the same as
required herein.
   (L)   Emergencies. In the case of fire, disaster or other emergency
threatening life or property, as determined by the city, the city may remove or
repair only the part of the facility required to be removed or repaired to
remove the threat; provided, however, the city shall first use its reasonable
efforts to immediately notify the owner of the threat and allow the owner to
remove or repair the part of the facility required to be removed or repaired to
remove the threat. In such event, neither the city, nor any agent, contractor
or employee thereof shall be liable to the owner or its customers or third
parties for any damages caused them or the facility, such as for, or in
connection with, protecting, breaking through, moving, removal, altering,
tearing down or relocating any part of the facility.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006)
§ 92.07 RIGHT TO INSPECT.
   For the purposes of administering and enforcing this subchapter, the
Building Inspector and authorized law enforcement entities (herein "inspecting
official") shall have the right to enter into and upon any lands within the
city limits, in or upon which excavation, installation, repairs or any other
construction activities exist or on any lands on which operations are being
conducted in creating an excavation, repair or installation, to examine and
inspect the lands and excavations, repairs or installations, to determine
whether such operations are in violation of this subchapter and to further
determine whether all permits have been secured as required.
   (A)   Cessation of operations/stop work order. If the inspection provided
for above reveals that the excavation, installation, repair or construction
activity is being operated or maintained in violation of the permit issued,
including a certificate of occupation, the inspecting official may immediately
give notice in writing to the person in charge at the site, or the owner
thereof, to stop all work or construction activities, setting forth therein the
reason for the issuance of the stop work order. If no person is available, the
leaving of a written notice, on the equipment located at the site or upon a
stake at the entry of the site where the excavation, installation, repair or
construction activity is occurring, shall be deemed compliance with this
section.
   (B)   Time limitation for correction. After issuance of the notice as
provided for above, there shall be no further operation of the excavation,
installation, repair or any other construction activity until the violations
complained of by the inspecting official have been remedied. Except that the
violation shall constitute an immediate threat to the public health or safety,
the owner and contractor shall have three days from the date of receipt of the
complaint notice from the inspecting official to remedy the violations
complained of and to request the inspection by the Inspector to verify that the
violations complained of have been remedied and that the construction activity
is ready for additional inspection.
   (C)   Failure to remedy violation. In the event a contractor or owner fails
to remedy the violation complained of, the Building Inspector shall notify the
City Administrator of the violations discovered and request that the City
Council hold a hearing to consider revocation of the contractor's and owner's
permit as provided in this subchapter. A continuation of work or operation of
the construction activity, other than to remedy the violation complained of,
after written notice has been received by the contractor or owner to cease the
construction activity shall constitute a violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   Right to repair or correct. The city may immediately repair any site
or location within the streets or rights-of-way at the contractor's and owner's
expense where there exists: a known condition which constitutes a nuisance; a
dangerous or hazardous condition; an eminent threat to the public health,
safety or welfare; or when the contractor or owner is performing construction
activities, excavations, installations or repairs without the appropriate
permit; or when the contractor or owner is performing construction activities,
excavations, installations or repairs contrary to the terms of this subchapter,
other applicable ordinances, state or federal law and refuses to correct the
situation immediately upon direction from the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006)
§ 92.08 COSTS.
   The reasonable costs and expenses for repairing, re-constructing or
correction of any construction activity, excavation, addition, removal or
alteration of a facility or any other alteration thereof to any street, right-
of-way or facilities located thereon, within the city, without a permit or
express written contract or written agreement with the city, shall be charged
against the persons, the corporation, company or entity actually responsible
for the actions; the owner(s) responsible for the work or for whose benefit the
activity was undertaken which caused the damage to the street or right-of-way;
and/or the permittee in whose name the permit to perform the activities was
issued.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006)
§ 92.09 CITY RIGHTS RESERVED.
   Nothing is this subchapter grants permission for the occupation,
obstruction, excavation, repair or alteration of any street or right-of-way of
the city, and any such use shall be subject to consent of the city, at its sole
discretion. Additionally, nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as an
assumption by the city, its officers and employees, of any responsibility to
supervise construction activities, ensure adequate safety precautions by
contractors or to protect any owners or customers of any facilities located in,
over, under, through, along or across the rights-of-way or streets, or the
owners of any property abutting, adjacent or within the rights-of-way or
streets from any damages caused to the facilities located therein or as the
result of the construction activities thereto. Further, the city reserves the
right to vacate any street or right-of-way, at its sole discretion. If the city
vacates or otherwise abandons a right-of-way or street or any portion thereof,
the city, with or without notice to any permittee, may cancel any permits for
the portion of a right-of-way or street without compensation or reimbursement
to the permittee for any expenses associated with moving any facilities located
therein, unless otherwise agreed in writing. The owner and, as applicable, the
contractor shall be solely liable and responsible for any and all injuries and/
or damages arising or resulting from any excavation, boring, trench, work or
occupation of any street or right-of-way by or on behalf of the owner or
contractor.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006)
§ 92.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The civil and criminal provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by
those persons or agencies designated by municipal authority and may be enforced
by any law enforcement agent of the city.
   (A)   If applicable, default and revocation of any and all permits granted
to allow construction activities in the streets or rights-of-way subject to the
procedural guidelines herein and any agreement which applies to the right-of-
way user, may be permanently enforced subject to any limitations imposed by
federal or state law.
   (B)   In imposing the penalties and the amount, the city may weigh all
applicable factors, such as damages caused by the violation, reasons for the
violation, the seriousness of the violation, and all other factors. The minimum
fee and penalty that shall be payable by any utility service, public service
provider, owner or person that shall be found to have been occupying a street
or right-of-way, in violation of this subchapter, shall be double the amount of
$1 per lineal foot of the occupancy for each year of the prior unauthorized
occupancy.
   (C)   Monetary civil penalties and injunctive relief may be imposed in the
manner prescribed by either local or state law.
   (D)   The City Council may order specific performance of any actions
required by this subchapter or required by a franchise, license or permit or
any other agreement or authorization.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006)
§ 92.11 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   Upon the request of the City Council, the City Attorney or other authorized
attorney shall file an action in the district courts to enjoin the violation or
threatened violation of this subchapter, to obtain declaratory judgment, and to
seek and recover court costs, attorney fees and/or damages, including, but not
limited to, damages or costs incurred by the city to undertake any
construction, repair, alteration or other activity necessary to bring about
compliance with a requirement regarding the streets or rights-of-way and
established pursuant to this subchapter and other applicable ordinances of the
city.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006)
§ 92.12 INDEMNITY.
   Owners and contractors shall indemnify, defend and hold the city and its
officers, employees and agents harmless from and against any and all claims,
lawsuits, judgments, costs, liens, losses, expenses, fees (including reasonable
attorney's fees and costs of defense), proceedings, actions, demands, causes of
action, liability and suits of any kind and nature, including personal or
bodily injury (including death), property damage or other harm for which
recovery of damages is sought that is found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be caused by the negligent act, error or omission of any agent,
officer, director, representative, employee, affiliate or subcontractor of the
owner, contractor or permittee installing, repairing or maintaining facilities
in the rights-of-way or streets.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006)
§ 92.13 GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to waive, modify or amend any
legal defense available at law or in equity to either the city or its officers,
employees and agents, nor to create any legal rights or claims on behalf of any
third party. This subchapter is solely for the benefit of the city, and the
city in its representative capacity of the general public, and does not create
or grant rights, contractual or otherwise, to any other person, entity or
member of the general public. Neither the city, nor its officers, employees and
agents waives, modifies or alters to any extent whatsoever the availability of
the defense of governmental immunity under the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006)
TRINIDAD CITY LAKE
§ 92.25 PROPERTY.
   The property known as Trinidad City Lake and the surrounding property, more
particularly described as Exhibit "A" attached to the ordinance codified herein
and incorporated herein as if fully transcribed herein, is owned by the city.
The city utilizes the property as a source of the fresh water for production of
drinking water that serves the city.
(Ord. 990713, passed 7-13-1999)
§ 92.26 CLOSURE OF LAKE.
   The property described in §
92.25 shall henceforth be closed to the public and all unauthorized persons.
Entry upon the property shall only be with the express consent of the city. No
trespassing signs shall be placed upon the property. The gates shall be closed
and locked at all times that the property is not in use. No persons shall be
authorized at any times upon the property, except with the express consent of
the city. City employees or contractors acting within the scope of their duties
who must enter upon the property to accomplish their work for the city or other
persons acting under written authorization may enter the property only to the
extent necessary to accomplish the tasks expressly authorized. All other
persons shall not be permitted upon the property for any reason.
(Ord. 990713, passed 7-13-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall henceforth be illegal for any person to:
   (A)   Enter the property without express authorization, except a contractor
or employee acting within the scope of his or her duties;
   (B)   Tamper with, damage, remove or destroy any locks upon the property;
   (C)   Tamper with, damage, remove, destroy or deface any sign upon the
property;
   (D)   Tamper with, damage, destroy or deface any gate upon the property; and
   (E)   Dump, throw any trash, filth or garbage of any nature upon the
property.
(Ord. 990713, passed 7-13-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
92.01 through
92.13, or shall fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements
thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be liable for a fine
not to exceed the sum of $500. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense. The penalty shall be in addition to all the other remedies
provided herein.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
92.25 through
92.27, or shall fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements
thereof, within the city limits shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall
be liable for a fine not to exceed the sum of $500. Each day the violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty shall be in addition to
all the other remedies.
(Ord. 990713, passed 7-13-1999; Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2006)
APPENDIX A: SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION IN CITY STREETS AND RIGHT-OF-
WAY
   1.   Permit. The person in charge of this installation shall have a copy of
the permit and its attachments on the job at all times. Deviations to the
approved permit must have prior approval of the City. Utilities having a
franchise with the City shall not be required to obtain permits for street cuts
but shall coordinate with the City as advisable based on the size of the
utility project and work.
   2.   Existing Utilities. The exact location of any utilities or facilities
that may conflict with the proposed installation should be field verified by
the installer during construction. Contractor will be responsible for verifying
the location both horizontal and vertical of all affected facilities whether by
pot holing or hand digging prior to any excavation or boring.
   3.   Safety. Warning and protective devices including flagmen, and watchmen
as necessary, shall be used to prevent creation of a traffic hazard and to
ensure the safety of the public as advisable and prudent considering the scope
of the work. When provided such devices and flagmen shall be in accordance with
the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
      Parking of employee's cars and trucks on both sides of the pavement will
be prohibited and all such vehicles shall be parked on one side of the road and
in no instance closer than a minimum of eight feet from the edge of the
pavement.
      All construction equipment and materials stored on city right-of-way
shall be limited to work in progress and stored in such a manner and at such
locations (a minimum of 30 feet from nearest traffic lane) as not to interfere
with the safe passage of traffic.
   4.   Method of construction. Trench width shall be held to a minimum and
back-filled to a density approximating that of the adjacent soil in a manner
satisfactory to the City. The fill material shall be installed in six-inch (6")
layers, each compacted to 95% density. A six-inch concrete slab shall be placed
over the trench to extend 12 inches on each side of the trench. The top of the
slab shall be two inches below the top of paving. Alternatively, a six-inch
layer of asphalt may be substituted and compacted to the finished grade of
adjacent pavement.
   5.   Concrete slab design. The slab shall be reinforced with six inch by six
inch No. 6 wire mesh. The wire mesh shall be supported properly throughout the
placement to maintain its position approximately equidistant from the top and
bottom surface of the slab. (High Early) Type III Portland Cement, making 2500
P.S.I. Concrete at three days or as directed by the City shall be used. The
slab shall be cured and closed to traffic as per state specifications. [This
section shall not apply if six (6) inches of asphalt is substituted for the
concrete.]
   6.   Asphalt. If asphalt is not substituted, the concrete shall be
thoroughly cleaned and a tack coat of asphalt shall be applied. Then Hot Mix
Asphaltic Concrete (Type D) as specified in Item 340 of the Texas Highway
Department Manual, shall be applied and compacted. If six (6) inches of asphalt
is substituted, the asphalt shall meet the foregoing specifications.
   7.   Access. Ingress and egress at all private and public streets and drives
will be provided at all times.
   8.   Right-of-way and street restorations. All excess excavation, materials,
supplies, etc. shall be removed from the right-of-way after installation is
complete and the right-of-way reshaped to its original section including
fertilizing, seeding and/or sodding as may be required when existing grass has
been disturbed.
   9.   Right-of-way and street damage. The Owner, Contractor and Permittee
will be responsible for any damage to the right-of-way or streets, including
but not limited to the pavement structure, caused by settlement due to pavement
cuts. Contractors are responsible for obtaining exact facility locations from
all utilities prior to excavation. Such liability shall extend for a period of
one (1) year from the date the repair of such pavement cut is completed.
   10.   Excavation. Prior to beginning any excavation, trenching or digging
which may damage a pipeline, cable, wire or any other such apparatus or
facilities located in, over or under the streets or rights-of-way of the City,
the Owner or Contractor shall first obtain a permit before excavation and
contact all of the owners of the such pipeline, cable, wire or other facility
and determine if the proposed excavation will cause damage thereto.
      If physical contact is made with, or damage or injury is suspected to,
any pipeline, cable, wire or other such apparatus or facilities during any
excavation, trenching, digging or other construction activities, the person or
Contractor making the physical contact with, or suspecting the damage or injury
to, the pipeline, cable, wire or other apparatus or facilities shall
immediately contact the Building Inspector and the owner of the pipeline,
cable, wire or other apparatus or facilities for any necessary inspections and
repairs.
      If during any excavation, trenching or digging, the person or Contractor
so excavating, trenching or digging notices or suspects damage or injury to any
lateral supports to streets or other facilities in the right-of-ways, streets
or adjacent properties such person shall immediately contact the City and, if
applicable, owner of the property for any necessary inspections and repairs.
      All persons to whom permits may be granted to excavate the streets or
right-of-ways shall, at their own cost and expense, deliver at such place as
may be designated by the Building Inspector for such purpose all such surplus
earth, dirt, stone, gravel or other material coming out of such excavation as
shall be necessary for the purpose of refilling the same.
   11.   Erosion. Erosion control measures (i.e. silt fence) and advance
warning signs, markers, cones and barricades must be in place before work
begins. Permittee shall be responsible for storm water management erosion
control that complies with City, state and federal guidelines. Requirements
shall include, but not be limited to, silt fencing around any excavation that
will be left overnight, silt fencing in erosion areas until reasonable
vegetation is established, barricade fencing around open holes, and high
erosion areas will require wire backed silt fencing.
   12.   Weekend/holidays. Construction work to be accomplished on weekends,
nights or holidays will proceed at the discretion of the Building Inspector;
provided that emergency work required to be undertaken on weekends, nights,
holidays and outside of normal business hours shall be undertaken and completed
in compliance with the attached ordinance and this exhibit, and the Contractor
shall obtain a permit therefor on the first business day following the date of
such work.
   13.   Notice. The Permittee, Contractor or Subcontractor shall notify the
Building Inspector not more than twenty-four (24) hours after any damage to
other utilities, facilities, or other appurtenances or property, whether public
or private. Once a permit has been issued, the Permittee must notify the
Building Inspector at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to commencing any work
or construction activity permit in such permit.
   14.   Liabilities. The City assumes no responsibility for conflict with
existing utility lines, pipelines, highway appurtenances or natural obstacles.
Permittees, Contractors and Owners shall be responsible for the workmanship and
any damages by a contractor or subcontractor.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 3-22-2003)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.03   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
93.04   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
93.05   Exemptions and exclusions
   
93.06   Fair Housing Administrator
   
93.07   Complaints
   
93.08   Investigation
   
93.09   Cumulative legal effect
   
93.10   Unlawful intimidation
   
93.11   Cooperation with Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
   
93.12   Education and public information
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.02 through
93.04.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed and intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families
or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees,
fiduciaries and any other organization or entity of whatever character.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 2-20-1979)
§ 93.02 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   Except as exempted by §
93.05, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, sex, religion or
national origin;
   (B)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or privileges
of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or facilities
in connection therewith, because of race, color, sex, religion or national
origin;
   (C)   Make, print, publish or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement regarding the sale or rental of a dwelling
that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on race,
color, sex, religion or national origin, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   Represent to any person because of race, color, sex, religion or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental when the dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit or with the hope or expectation of profit, induce or
attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling by representations
regarding the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or
persons of a particular race, color, sex, religion or national origin; and
   (F)   For profit or with the hope or expectation of profit to influence or
attempt to influence, by any words, acts, or failure to act, any seller,
purchaser, landlord or tenant of a dwelling so as to promote the maintenance of
racially segregated housing or as to retard, obstruct or discourage racially
integrated housing.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 2-20-1979) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part of the making of commercial or residential real
estate loans, to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying
therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or to discriminate against any person in the fixing of
the amount, interest rate, brokerage points, duration or other terms or
conditions of the loan or other financial assistance, because of:
   (A)   The race, color, sex, religion or national origin of the person or of
any person associated with him or her in connection with the loan or other
financial assistance; or
   (B)   The race, color, sex, religion or national origin of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings
for which the loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 2-20-1979) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deny access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, sex, religion or national origin.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 2-20-1979) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   There shall be exempted from the application of §
93.02 all transactions involving:
      (1)   The rental of units in dwellings containing living quarters
occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living
independently of each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of
the units as his or her residence;
      (2)   The rental of a single room in a dwelling containing living
quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than one family if the
person offering the room for rental actually maintains and occupies the
remainder of the dwelling as his or her residence and not more than four rooms
are offered; and
      (3)   The sale or rental of any single house by a private individual who
owns the house; provided that:
         (a)   The sale or rental is made without the use in any manner of the
sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate
broker, agent or salesperson, or of the facilities or services of any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings or of any employee or agent of any
the broker, agent, salesperson or person;
         (b)   The sale is made without the publication, posting or mailing of
any advertisement or, written notice in violation of §
93.02(C) (this shall not prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents,
abstractors, title companies and other professional assistance as necessary to
perfect or transfer the title);
         (c)   The owner does not own more than three single-family houses at
the time of the sale;
         (d)   The owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title
to or any right to all or any portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental
of more than three single-family houses at any one time; and/or
         (e)   If the owner does not reside in the house at the time of sale or
was not the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption
granted by this division (A)(3)(e) shall apply only with respect to one sale
within any 24-month period.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious association, or
society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to the persons, unless membership in the
religion is restricted on account of race, color, sex or national origin.
   (C)   Nothing is this chapter shall prohibit a bona fide private club, not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose,
provides lodging which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose,
from limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall bar any person from owning and operating
a housing accommodation in which a room or rooms are leased, subleased or
rented only to persons of the same sex, when the housing accommodation contains
common lavatory, kitchen or similar facilities available for the use of all
persons occupying the housing accommodation.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 2-20-1979)
§ 93.06 FAIR HOUSING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor shall appoint and Council shall confirm a Fair Housing
Administrator (hereinafter referred to as "Administrator"), who shall have the
responsibility for implementing this chapter. The Administrator may delegate
his or her authority to investigate and conciliate complaints to other city
employees under his or her direction.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 2-20-1979)
§ 93.07 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Only the person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice who believes he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that has occurred or is occurring (hereinafter
referred to as "person aggrieved") may file a complaint with the Administrator.
The complaints shall be in writing and shall identify the person alleged to
have committed or alleged to be committing a discriminatory housing practice
and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a discriminatory
housing practice are based. The Administrator shall prepare complaint forms and
furnish them without charge to any person, upon request.
   (B)   If at any time the Administrator shall receive or discover credible
evidence and shall have probable cause to believe that any person or persons,
have committed or are committing a discriminatory housing practice as to which
no complaint has been filed, the Administrator may prepare and file a complaint
upon his or her own motion and in his or her own name and the complaint shall
thereafter be treated in the same manner as a complaint filed by a person
aggrieved.
   (C)   The Administrator shall receive and accept notification and referral
complaints from the U.S. Attorney General and the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development pursuant to the provisions of Title VIII, Fair Housing Act of
1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., and shall treat the complaints hereunder
in the same manner as complaints filed pursuant to division (A) of this
section.
   (D)   All complaints shall be filed within 60 days following the occurrence
of an alleged discriminatory housing practice. Upon the filing or referral of
any complaint, the Administrator shall provide notice of the complaint by
furnishing a copy of the complaint to the persons named therein who allegedly
committed or were threatening to commit an alleged discriminatory housing
practice. The accused may file an answer to the complaint within 15 days of
receipt of the written complaint.
   (E)   All complaints and answers shall be subscribed and sworn to before an
officer authorized to administer oaths.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 2-20-1979)
§ 93.08 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon the filing or referral of a complaint as herein provided, the
Administrator shall cause to be made a prompt and full investigation of the
matter stated in the complaint.
   (B)   During or after the investigation, but subsequent to the mailing of
the notice of complaint, the Administrator shall, if it appears that a
discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is threatening to occur,
attempt by informal endeavors to effect conciliation, including voluntary
discontinuance of the discriminatory housing practice and adequate assurance of
future voluntary compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Nothing said
or done in the course of the informal endeavors may be made public by the
Administrator, by the complainant or by any other party to the proceedings
without the written consent of all persons concerned.
   (C)   (1)   Upon completion of the investigation and informal endeavors at
conciliation by the Administrator, but within 30 days of the filing of the
complaint with the Administrator, if the efforts of the Administrator to secure
voluntary compliance have been unsuccessful, and if the Administrator has made
a determination that a discriminatory housing practice has in fact occurred,
the Administrator shall recommend to the City Attorney that the violation be
prosecuted in the Municipal Court of the city. With the recommendation, the
Administrator shall refer his or her entire file to the City Attorney. The City
Attorney shall, within 30 days after the referral make a determination as to
whether to proceed with prosecution of the complaint in Municipal Court.
      (2)   If the City Attorney determines to prosecute, he or she shall
institute a complaint and prosecute same to conclusion within 30 days after the
determination or as soon thereafter as practicable.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 2-20-1979)
§ 93.09 CUMULATIVE LEGAL EFFECT.
   This chapter is cumulative in its legal effect and is not in lieu of any and
all other legal remedies which the person aggrieved may pursue.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 2-20-1979)
§ 93.10 UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harass, threaten, harm, damage or
otherwise penalize any individual, group or business because he, she or they
have complied with the provisions of this chapter, because he, she or they have
exercised his, her or their rights under this chapter, or enjoyed the benefits
of this chapter, or because he, she or they have made a charge, testified or
assisted in any manner in any investigation, or in any proceeding hereunder or
have made any report to the Administrator.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 2-20-1979) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 COOPERATION WITH SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT.
   The Administrator and the City Attorney are authorized to cooperate with the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the U.S. Attorney General
pursuant to the provisions of Title VIII, Fair Housing Act of 1968, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., and may render the service to the Secretary as they
shall deem appropriate to further the policies of this chapter.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 2-20-1979)
§ 93.12 EDUCATION AND PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   In order to further the objectives of this chapter, the Administrator may
conduct educational and public information programs.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 2-20-1979)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined a
sum not to exceed $200 for each violation. Each day a violation continues after
passage of 75 days from date of the filing of the initial complaint with the
Administrator shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter may be enjoined by a suit filed by the city in a court of competent
jurisdiction, and this remedy is in addition to any other penalty provision.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 2-20-1979)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMAL CODE
Section
   
94.01   Findings of fact
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Running at large
   
94.04   Enclosures
   
94.05   Dangerous animals
   
94.06   Exceptions
   
94.07   Nonregisterable dangerous dogs
   
94.08   Determination of nonregisterable dangerous dog
   
94.09   Notification of determination of a nonregisterable dangerous dog
   
94.10   Status of dog pending appeal
   
94.11   Defense to determination
   
94.12   Disposition of a nonregisterable dangerous dog
   
94.13   Registerable dangerous dog
   
94.14   Determination of a registerable dangerous dog
   
94.15   Notification of declaration of registered dangerous dog
   
94.16   Confinement
   
94.17   Defense to determination of registerable dangerous dog
   
94.18   Disposition of a registerable dangerous dog
   
94.19   Requirements for registration and possession of registered dangerous
dog
   
94.20   Attack by registered dangerous dog
   
94.21   Appeal from municipal court
   
94.22   Defense to prosecution for violation of registered dangerous dog
   
94.23   Penalties for violation of this chapter relating to a dangerous dog
   
94.24   Prohibited animals
   
94.25   Harboring of animals; prohibited behavior
   
94.26   Prohibited dangerous wild and other nondomestic animals
   
94.27   Livestock prohibited within city limits
   
94.28   Allowed number of animals (excessive animals)
   
94.29   Enforcement and policy
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The recitals to the ordinance codified herein are found to be true and
correct and are incorporated herein as findings of fact. The City Council
hereby further finds and determines that the rules, regulations, terms,
conditions, provisions and requirements of the ordinance codified herein are
reasonable and necessary to protect the public health, safety and quality of
life.
(Ord. 2010-004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any living creature other than hominids. Unless indicated otherwise,
the term shall include livestock, fowl, reptiles, amphibians, and wildlife, as
well as dogs, cats, Vietnamese potbelly pigs and other creatures commonly owned
as pets. The term shall exclude a fish and other small aquarium maintained
creatures, not herein prohibited or restricted.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER or ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Animal Control
Division of the city’s Police Department, its animal control officers and/or
peace officers.
   CAT. The male and the female of any domesticated member of the feline
species of animals.
   DOG. The male and the female of any domesticated member of the canine
species of animal.
   FISH. Any of the cold-blooded animals that extract oxygen from water through
the use of gills.
   FOWL. All birds, e.g., chickens, turkeys, pheasants, quail, guineas, geese,
ducks, peafowl and other domestic feathered creatures and nondomestic feathered
creatures, regardless of age or sex.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes, regardless of age. sex or breed, all types of sheep,
goats, swine, fowl, horses or any member of the domesticated equine family,
including but not limited to mules, donkeys, and ponies; and all members of the
bovine family, including but not limited to cows, bulls, buffalo and bison.
   RUNNING AT LARGE (ANIMALS AT LARGE).
      (1)   Off-premises:
         (a)   Any animal, except pet cats, which is not restrained by means of
a leash, chain, or other physical apparatus of sufficient strength and length
to control the actions of such animal while off-premises;
         (b)   Any cat which is creating a nuisance off the owner’s property.
      (2)   On-premises:
         (a)   Any animal, except pet cats, not confined to premises of owner
by a substantial fence of sufficient strength and height to prevent the animal
from escaping therefrom, or secured on the premises by a chain or leash
sufficient in strength to prevent the animal from escaping from premises and so
arranged that the animal will remain upon the premises when the leash is
stretched to full length;
         (b)   An animal intruding upon the property of another person other
than the owner’s shall be termed AT LARGE;
         (c)   Any animal within a vehicle in a manner that would prevent that
animal’s escape or contact with other persons or animals shall not be deemed AT
LARGE.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.03 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Responsible party. It shall be unlawful for any person who owns,
keeps, harbors or otherwise has control over any animal within the city to
allow or permit such animal to run or be at large within the city.
   (B)   Cats. The prohibition against an animal running at large shall not
apply to a domestic cat which has been vaccinated as required by this chapter
and the cat owner can produce valid proof of current vaccination. The
prohibition shall apply to all other cats.
   (C)   Restraint required. An animal shall be considered to be at large if it
is not under the control of its owner by either a leash, chain, cord or other
suitable material attached to a collar or harness, or not restrained on the
property of the owner by a leash, chain, cord or fence. An animal inside a
vehicle parked in a public place or in the open bed of a moving or parked
vehicle in a public place shall be considered to be at large unless it is
restrained in such a manner that it cannot exit the vehicle of its own
volition.
   (D)   Impoundment. The Animal Control Officer for the city may impound any
animal observed to be at large, whether the animal is on public or private
property, subject to the applicable provisions of the law. If the Animal
Control Officer observes an animal on property which is owned by a person other
than the owner of the animal, and observes the animal return to property of its
owner, the Animal Control Officer may impound the animal or issue a citation
for the animal running at large. In the event the animal is taken to the Humane
Society, the owner will incur a fee of $75 payable to the city. The owner of
the animal will have to present the receipt to the Humane Society in order for
the animal to be released by the Humane Society. In the event the animal is on
private property or property of the animal’s owner, the Animal Control Officer,
his or her agent, or peace officer may enter the property, other than a private
dwelling for the purpose of impoundment or issuance of a citation, or both,
subject to the applicable provisions of the title and law.
   (E)   Prima facie evidence. Proof that an animal was found at large in
violation of this section, together with proof that the defendant was the owner
of such animal at the time, shall constitute prima facie evidence that the
defendant allowed or permitted the animal to be at large.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 ENCLOSURES.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons in the possession of any animal to
maintain any structure, barn, stable, pen, enclosure, yard or place in which
animals are confined in a manner that causes odors offensive to persons of
ordinary sensibilities residing in the vicinity, that causes the breeding or
attraction of flies, mosquitoes, or other insects, that provides convenient
food for rodents or wildlife, or that is unclean, unsanitary, unpleasant or
obnoxious.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.05 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   A DANGEROUS ANIMAL shall be defined as an animal which:
      (1)   Has inflicted injury on a human being without provocation on public
or private property; or
      (2)   Has killed or severely injured a domestic animal without
provocation while off the owner’s property; or
      (3)   Is trained or harbored for fighting which may be determined based
on whether the animal exhibits behavior and/or bears physical scars or injuries
which indicate that the animal has been trained or used for the purpose of
fighting; or
      (4)   Is a warm-blooded mammal which is known to carry or be susceptible
to the rabies virus and which can not be effectively vaccinated against that
virus with any vaccine approved by the Texas Department of Health; or
      (5)   Is a hybrid animal or any pet wildlife which has attacked a human
or which is apprehended or observed unrestrained; or
      (6)   Is a venomous or carnivorous fish or reptile or any fish or reptile
that grows over six feet in length.
   (B)   If an animal acts as stated in division (A) of this section, the
animal control authority or its designee shall impound the animal immediately
if it is at large; or, if it is in the possession of some person, the animal
control authority or its designee may issue a notice requiring that the animal
be taken to a designated location for impoundment. The form of such notice
shall be provided for by policy. An animal which is impounded shall not be
released until a final determination is made on the disposition of the animal.
   (C)   Notice shall be given to the owner that the animal control authority
or its designee has determined that the animal is a dangerous animal. This
notice shall also set out the remedial requirements that the owner must comply
with. This notice shall be given to the owner by personal service or by
certified mail, return receipt requested. The owner shall have five working
days from receipt of the notice to file a letter with the Chief of Police
stating that he or she shall comply with the remedial requirements as stated in
the notice or that he or she disagrees with the determination that the animal
is dangerous or the remedial requirements and that he or she requests a hearing
before the Chief of Police or designee. The owner may file a written appeal to
this order clearly stating the reasons for the appeal, to the Mayor within ten
days of service. The Mayor shall conduct a hearing to determine the issues
stated in the written appeal. At the hearing the formal rules of evidence do
not apply. The Mayor shall make his or her decision on the basis of
preponderance of the evidence presented. The decision of the Mayor shall be
rendered within 30 days from receipt of the appeal and the decision of the
Mayor shall be final. Nothing herein precludes the city from seeking other
remedies if owners fail to comply with the remedial requirements stated or the
decision(s) rendered in the appeal process.
   (D)   If the owner of a dangerous animal cannot be determined after
reasonable efforts to do so and after holding the animal for 72 hours, the
animal may be disposed of in a humane manner. If the owner of a dangerous
animal which has been impounded cannot be located for the delivery service of
the notice required herein either in person or by mail, the animal may be
disposed of in a humane manner after all reasonable effort has been made to
locate such owner.
   (E)   If the animal’s behavior creates a more dangerous situation even
though the owner is complying with the remedial requirements, the Chief of
Police or designee may again review the situation and prescribe additional or
different remedial requirements.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No animal may be declared dangerous if the threat, injury or damage
was sustained by a person who at the time:
      (1)   Was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner of the animal; or
      (2)   Was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal or has in the past
been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the animal and
the animal was not at large at the time of the offense; or
      (3)   Was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      (4)   If the dog was protecting or defending a person while in that
person’s control from an unjustified attack or assault; or
      (5)   If the dog was injured and responding to pain.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to animals under the
control of a governmental law enforcement, correctional, or military agency.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a dog whose conduct
has brought it within the coverage of the Tex. Health and Safety Code, Ch. 822,
as amended from time to time, to the extent that said Chapter preempts local
regulation of the dog’s conduct.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.07 NONREGISTERABLE DANGEROUS DOGS.
   No person shall own or harbor a nonregisterable dangerous dog within the
city. Such an animal may be impounded as a public nuisance. If impoundment of
such nonregisterable dangerous dog is being attempted away from the premises of
the owner and the impoundment cannot be made with safety, the animal may be
destroyed without notice to the owner or harborer. If an attempt is made to
impound a nonregisterable dangerous dog from the premises of the owner or
harborer and the impoundment cannot be made with safety, the owner or harborer
will be given 24 hours’ notice that if the animal is not surrendered to the
animal control authority or its designee for impoundment within said 24-hour
period, then the animal will be destroyed wherever it is found. After this
notice, the nonregisterable dangerous dog may be destroyed during an attempt to
impound, if impoundment cannot be made with safety, wherever the impoundment is
attempted. Notice under this chapter may be verbal or in writing on a form
provided for by policy. A written notice left at the entrance to the premises
where the nonregisterable dangerous dog is harbored will be considered valid
notice under this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 DETERMINATION OF NONREGISTERABLE DANGEROUS DOG.
   A dog is determined to be a NONREGISTERABLE DANGEROUS DOG if:
   (A)   A dog is automatically determined to be nonregisterable if:
      (1)   When unprovoked, the dog severely attacked or inflicted serious
injury or death to a person, whether on public or private property; or
      (2)   Has been deemed nonregisterable by the animal control authority or
its designee and upheld or unchallenged by any court of jurisdiction.
   (B)   The animal control authority or its designee may find and determine a
dog to be nonregisterable if:
      (1)   Upon receipt of an affidavit of complaint signed by one or more
individuals, made under oath before an individual authorized by law to take
sworn statements or made at the animal shelter before the animal control
authority or its designee, setting forth an act described in division (A) and
setting forth the:
         (a)   Nature and the date of the act described in division (A);
         (b)   The location of the event;
         (c)   The name and address of the owner of the animal in question; and
         (d)   The description of the animal in question.
      (2)   The animal control authority or its designee investigates the
complaint and may determine that an animal is nonregisterable under this title
and/or state law;
   (C)   The dog has been registered as, or finally determined or declared to
be, a dangerous dog, either in Trinidad or in another city or county in Texas,
or has made an unprovoked attack on another person outside the dog’s enclosure,
or causes injury to such person or a person assisting or intervening on behalf
of such person; or
   (D)   The owner of a dog determined to be a registerable dangerous dog under
this chapter, or any previous or other ordinance of this city or any other city
or state law, cannot or will not comply with the requirements set out in this
chapter for the keeping of a registerable dangerous dog.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.09 NOTIFICATION OF DETERMINATION OF A NONREGISTERABLE DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   Within five working days of determining an animal nonregisterable, the
animal control authority or its designee will notify, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, the person owning the animal of its designation as a
nonregisterable animal. In the event that certified mail, return receipt
requested, cannot be delivered, the animal control authority or its designee
may then give notice by ordinary mail to last known address of owner. For the
purposes of this section, written notice may be delivered by the animal control
authority or its designee in person to the owner/harborer of the dog in
question.
   (B)   If the animal is determined to be nonregisterable under this chapter,
the owner may appeal to the Municipal Court within 15 days of notification.
Failure to appeal the determination of a nonregisterable dangerous dog shall
result in the animal control authority or its designee’s determination as
becoming final.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.10 STATUS OF DOG PENDING APPEAL.
   Pending any appeal to Municipal Court, the animal must be confined at the
animal shelter or licensed veterinary facility, and the cost of such
confinement shall be borne by the owner. If the dog in question is not in the
possession of the animal shelter at the time of the declaration, the owner must
surrender the dog to the animal control authority or its designee when ordered
to do so. If the owner fails to immediately surrender the dog, the animal
control authority or its designee shall take the dog into his or her possession
from the premises of the owner or elsewhere, wherever the dog may be found
within the city limits. If the dog can not be taken into custody by the animal
control authority or its designee, it may be taken into custody under a search
warrant pursuant to Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure, Art. 18.01, as amended
from time to time, the grounds for issuance shall conform to Subdivision (8) of
Art. 18.02 of the same Code, as amended from time to time, and issued by the
Municipal Judge.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.11 DEFENSE TO DETERMINATION.
   It is a defense to the determination that a dog is a nonregisterable
dangerous dog, dangerous dog, or should be destroyed, and it is a defense to
the prosecution of the owner of that dog:
   (A)   If the threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who at the
time was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied
by the owner of the animal and was older than eight years of age at the time of
the attack;
   (B)   If the person was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
animal or has, in the past, been reported to have teased, tormented, abused or
assaulted the animal and is older than eight years of age at the time of the
attack;
   (C)   If the person was committing or attempting to commit a crime;
   (D)   If the dog was protecting or defending a person while in that person’s
control from an unjustified attack or assault; or
   (E)   If the dog was injured and responding to pain.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.12 DISPOSITION OF A NONREGISTERABLE DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   If the Municipal Court upholds the determination by the animal control
authority or its designee, the court shall, subject to any rights of appeal,
order the dog to be euthanized in a safe and humane manner.
   (B)   In the event the Municipal Court reverses that determination, the dog
in question shall be returned to or released to its owner provided the owner
reimburses the city for any veterinary medical treatment administered to the
dog while in the custody of the animal control authority or its designee.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.13 REGISTERABLE DANGEROUS DOG.
   The designation REGISTERABLE DANGEROUS DOG shall refer to a dog determined
dangerous under this chapter and in compliance with state law and that meets
any of the following criteria:
   (A)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a person upon the
streets, sidewalks or any public or private properly in an apparent attitude of
attack such that the person reasonably believes that the animal will cause
physical injury to the person;
   (B)   Any dog that commits an unprovoked act in a place other than an
enclosure in which the dog was being kept and which enclosure was reasonably
certain to prevent the dog from leaving the enclosure on its own and the act
causes a person to reasonably believe that the dog will attack and cause bodily
injury to any person; or
   (C)   Any animal that has killed or seriously injured a domestic animal
without provocation while off the owner’s property.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 DETERMINATION OF A REGISTERABLE DANGEROUS DOG.
   A dog is determined to be a registerable dangerous dog if it meets the
requirements set out in foregoing section, and:
   (A)   The owner of the dog in question knows of such an attack as defined in
this chapter; or
   (B)   The owner is notified by the animal control authority or its designee
that the dog in question is a registerable dangerous dog. The animal control
authority or its designee may find and determine a dog to be a registerable
dangerous dog if:
      (1)   Upon receipt of an affidavit of complaint signed by one or more
individuals made under oath before an individual authorized by law to take
sworn statements, setting forth an act described in foregoing section of this
chapter and set forth as follows:
         (a)   Nature and the date of the act described in foregoing section;
         (b)   The location of the event;
         (c)   The name and address of the owner of the animal in question; and
         (d)   The description of the animal in question.
      (2)   The animal control authority or its designee has been notified by
another agency that the dog has been determined to be dangerous under the state
law.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.15 NOTIFICATION OF DECLARATION OF REGISTERED DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   Within five working days of determining a dog to be a registered
dangerous dog, if written notification cannot be given personally to the owner
of the dog, the animal control authority or its designee will notify, by
certified mail, return receipt requested, the person owning the animal of its
designation as a registerable dangerous dog. In the event that certified mail,
return receipt requested, cannot be delivered, the animal control authority or
its designee may then give notice by ordinary mail.
   (B)   If the dog is determined to be registerable under this title, the
notice shall inform the owner of the dog that he or she may appeal the
determination to Municipal Court no later than 15 days after the date the owner
is notified of the determination. Failure to appeal the determination of
registerable dangerous dog within the 15-day period shall result in the animal
control authority or its designee’s determination becoming final.
   (C)   Upon determination by the animal control authority or its designee,
that the dog is dangerous, the owners shall be required to secure the animal
immediately within an enclosure that meets the requirements of this chapter. If
the owner fails to do so, the animal control authority or its designee shall
impound the dog until such enclosure is provided.
   (D)   The animal control authority or its designee shall immediately notify,
in writing, adjacent and contiguous property owners of such determination.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.16 CONFINEMENT.
   Pending the outcome of the appeal, the animal must be confined at a licensed
veterinary clinic or at the animal shelter, the cost of which shall be borne by
the owner of the dog in question. If the dog in question is not in the
possession of the animal shelter or a veterinary clinic at the time of the
determination, the owner must surrender the dog to the animal control authority
or its designee when ordered to do so. If the owner fails to immediately
surrender the dog, the animal control authority or its designee shall have the
right to take the dog into its possession from the premises of the owner or
elsewhere, wherever the dog may be found within the city limits. If the dog can
not be taken into custody by the animal control authority or its designee, it
may be taken into custody under a search warrant for contraband issued by the
Municipal Judge.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 DEFENSE TO DETERMINATION OF REGISTERABLE DANGEROUS DOG.
   The defenses identified in §
94.11 above shall serve as defenses to the determination of a dog as a
registerable dangerous dog and to the prosecution of the owner of that dog.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.18 DISPOSITION OF A REGISTERABLE DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   If the Municipal Court upholds the determination by the animal control
authority or its designee, the owner shall, no later than ten days after the
hearing, comply with the provisions of this chapter for the keeping of a
registered dangerous dog in the city and the dog shall be returned to the owner
provided all costs involved in the impoundment, holding and medical treatment
of the dog are paid.
   (B)   In the event the Municipal Court reverses that determination, the dog
in question shall be returned to or released to its owner provided the owner
has paid all veterinary medical costs administered to such dog while in the
custody of the animal control authority or its designee.
   (C)   The Municipal Court may order make any reasonable orders for the dog
consistent with this chapter and Tex. Health and Safety Code, Ch. 822, as
amended from time to time.
   (D)   If the animal control authority or its designee has information or
belief, or has determined that a court of competent jurisdiction has ever made
or upheld a determination or declaration that a dog is dangerous, or if the
animal control authority or its designee has determined that a declaration or
determination of dangerous dog became final for failure to appeal or any other
reason, under previous or other ordinances of this city or other cities or
state law, the animal control authority or its designee shall notify the person
owning or keeping such dog in writing that the owner shall no later than ten
days after the date of the notice comply with the provisions of this title for
the keeping of a registered dangerous dog in the City of Trinidad.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.19 REQUIREMENTS FOR REGISTRATION AND POSSESSION OF REGISTERED DANGEROUS
DOG.
   (A)   The owner must register the dog with the animal control authority or
its designee, and pay the fees as required by state law not later than 30 days
after the owner is notified that the dog is dangerous. The registration shall
not be transferable and shall expire one year from date of issuance. The animal
control authority or its designee shall provide to the owner of the registered
dangerous dog a tag which must be placed on the dog’s collar and worn at all
times.
   (B)   The owner must comply with the following to register the dog:
      (1)   Present proof of liability insurance or financial responsibility in
the amount of at least $100,000 to cover damages resulting from an attack by
the dangerous dog;
      (2)   Present proof of current rabies vaccination of the registerable
dangerous dog;
      (3)   Present proof that the dog has been altered so as to prevent
reproduction;
      (4)   Provide a proper enclosure as defined in this chapter and that
proper enclosure must be inspected and approved by the animal control authority
or its designee;
      (5)   Post a sign on his or her premises warning that there is a
dangerous dog on the property. This sign shall be visible and capable of being
read from the public street or highway. In addition, the owner shall
conspicuously display a sign with a symbol warning, understandable by small
children, of the presence of a dangerous dog; and
      (6)   Further identification may be required and designated by the order
of the city.
   (C)   When the registered dangerous dog is taken outside the approved proper
enclosure, the animal must be securely muzzled in a manner that will not cause
injury to the dog nor interfere with its vision or respiration but shall
prevent it from biting a person or other animal, and the dog must be restrained
by a substantial chain or cable leash having a minimum tensile strength of
1,000 pounds and not to exceed six feet in length.
   (D)   Prior to selling or moving the registered dangerous dog either inside
or outside the city limits, the owner must notify the animal control authority
or its designee of his or her intentions. In the event the dog is moved
permanently outside the city limits the owner must comply with the state law in
notifying the Animal Control Division in control of the area into which the dog
has been moved.
   (E)   Anyone bringing a dog into the city limits that has been declared
dangerous by another animal control authority must notify the city’s animal
control authority or its designee of the new address where the dog will be kept
and upon presentation of the dog’s prior registration tag that has not expired
shall pay a fee set by the City Council, and the animal control authority or
its designee shall issue a new tag to be placed on the dog’s collar. This owner
must also comply with all requirements set out in this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20 ATTACK BY REGISTERED DANGEROUS DOG.
   The owner of a dangerous dog shall notify the animal control authority or
its designee of any attacks the dog makes on people or animals.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 APPEAL FROM MUNICIPAL COURT.
   Any appeal of the decision or order of the Municipal Court of Trinidad shall
be made within ten days in the same manner as appeal from civil cases
originating in the Justice of the Peace Courts of this state. The Municipal
Court shall order the appellant to post a supersedeas bond payable to the city
in an amount not less than $10,000. The form of the bond shall be as prescribed
in the laws pertaining to civil appeals originating in the Justice of the Peace
Courts in this state. The appellant shall be responsible for the cost of
appeal.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.22 DEFENSE TO PROSECUTION FOR VIOLATION OF REGISTERED DANGEROUS DOG.
   It is a defense to prosecution that the person possessing a dangerous dog
is:
   (A)   Veterinarian, peace officer, or employee of the city and the harboring
of the dog was in the performance of his or her duties;
   (B)   An employee of the institutional division of the Texas Department of
Criminal Justice or a law enforcement agency and trains or uses dogs for law
enforcement or corrections purposes; or
   (C)   A dog trainer or an employee of a guard dog company, while in the
performance of his or her duties, under the Private Investigators and Private
Security Agencies Act.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.23 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER RELATING TO A DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter if the person is the owner of
a registered dangerous dog and the dog makes an unprovoked attack on another
person outside the dog’s proper enclosure and causes bodily injury to the other
person whether or not the dog was on a leash and securely muzzled or whether or
not the dog escaped without fault of the owner.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter if the person is the owner of
a registered dangerous dog and that dog kills or wounds a domestic animal while
outside the dog’s proper enclosure whether or not the dog was on a leash and
securely muzzled or whether or not the dog escaped without fault of the owner.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of chapter if the person is the owner of a
registered dangerous dog and that dog attacks a person who gains access to the
proper enclosure due to negligence on the part of the owner or the owner’s
agent. This negligence shall include a failure to comply with the notification
of ownership of a dangerous dog through the posting of warning signs in
accordance with this chapter.
   (D)   In addition to criminal prosecution, a person who commits an offense
under this chapter is liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $10,000. The
City Attorney of Trinidad may file suit in a court of competent: jurisdiction
to collect the penalty. Penalties collected under this division shall be
retained by the city.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   No person may possess a prohibited animal within the city limits. Such
prohibited animals shall include, but are not limited to, all animals
prohibited by the state or federal law and shall include, but are not limited
to, the following animals or any hybrid of these animals or such other class of
animals as may be determined to be dangerous by Animal Control Officer or any
other dangerous animal which may be added in the future to the list as a high
risk animal in the Texas Rabies Control Act, as amended:
   (A)   Class Mammalia: family Canidae (such as wolves, coyotes and fox)
except domesticated dogs and hybrids involving same; family Mustelidae (such as
weasels, martins, fishers, skunks, wolverines, mink and badgers) except
ferrets; family Procyonidae (such as raccoons); family Ursidae (such as bears);
and order Chiroptera (such as bats).
   (B)   Poisonous reptiles, cobras and their allies (Elapidae, Hydrophiidae);
vipers and their allies (Crotiladae, Viperidae); Boomslang and Kirtland’s tree
snakes; mambas, and Gila monsters (Helodermatidae); and crocodiles, alligators
and their allies (order Loricata) and nonvenomous reptiles over six feet in
length; provided that nonvenomous reptiles, not to exceed 12 feet in length,
may be kept for the purposes of wholesale breeding operations only in
accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Brown recluse (Loxosceles) and black widow (Lactrodectus) spiders.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.25 HARBORING OF ANIMALS; PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly harbor or keep any
animal which makes loud or continuous noise without provocation and thereby
disturbs the peace or the calm and repose of any person of ordinary
sensibilities, after having been given notice of the violation. Proof shall be
in the form of testimony from no fewer than two neighbors from two different
households or one neighbor and an Animal Control Officer or police officer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any animal on
his or her premises in such a manner as to endanger the public health, to annoy
neighbors by the accumulation of animal wastes which cause foul and offensive
odors or are considered to be a hazard to any other animal or human being, or
by continued presence on the premises of another.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, restrain, tie or tether
any dog on his or her premises so that the animal is able to reach within 40
feet from the center of a roadway. Any animal secured in this manner must be
done in compliance with Tex. Health and Safety Code § 821.077, as amended,
fastened by a device of sufficient strength to secure the animal upon the
premises and provided with adequate shade and water.
   (D)   A violation under this section shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26 PROHIBITED DANGEROUS WILD AND OTHER NONDOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   The animals specified in this section as dangerous wild animals shall be
deemed as contraband and no person may possess any individual species and/or
subspecies of the following dangerous wild animals: antelope, order Carnivora,
family felidae (such as lions, tigers, jaguars, leopards and cougars, leopards,
ocelot, lynx, bob cat, cheetahs, jaguars), hyenas, bears, lesser pandas,
ferrets from natural habitats, order Primata (such as monkeys, chimpanzees,
apes). No person may possess any individual species of the following animals:
Binturong, elephants, or such other nondomestic species of animal not common to
this area.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   The harboring and keeping of livestock within the city limits is prohibited
unless such livestock is kept on property in excess of three acres. This
livestock prohibition shall not apply to chickens. Residences within the city
limits are authorized to have up to ten chickens so long as the chickens are
penned at all times and kept only in the backyard. Roosters shall not be
permitted.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 ALLOWED NUMBER OF ANIMALS (EXCESSIVE ANIMALS).
   (A)   If an owner has violated any provision of this chapter more than two
times in a 12-month period, and if the ordinance enforcer, the Chief of Police
or such designee, determines, based upon the following criteria, that those
violations are a result of excessive animals, the owner shall reduce the
maximum number of animals to the number prescribed by the ordinance enforcer. A
person commits an offense if the person possesses, harbors, or keeps any number
of animals in excess of the number prescribed by ordinance enforcer.
   (B)   In making a determination of excessive animals, the ordinance enforcer
shall consider the following factors:
      (1)   The size of the property at which the animals are being kept which
may include, but is not limited to, the size of any dwelling in which the
animals are being kept.
      (2)   The number of animals present.
      (3)   The size of each animal.
      (4)   The apparent physical health of each animal.
      (5)   The type of each animal.
      (6)   The owner’s apparent ability to provide care for each animal.
      (7)   The distance of the owner’s property from neighboring properties.
      (8)   The history and validity of animal nuisance complaints from
neighboring residents.
   (C)   A person who has been ordered to reduce the number of animals to the
number prescribed by the ordinance enforcer may appeal the reduction to the
Administrative Review Board, the City Council. If so ordered, the animal number
shall be reduced following receipt of the order, even if an appeal is
initiated.
   (D)   The hearings provided for in this section shall be held before, and
decided by the Administrative Review Board, the City Council, at a time and
place designated by the Board. Based upon the evidence presented at the
hearing, the Administrative Review Board, the City Council, shall make a
finding and may sustain, modify, or rescind the decision forming the basis of
the hearing.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-
005, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.29 ENFORCEMENT AND POLICY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by Animal Control
Officers, police officers, and such other persons as are designated by the
city. Nothing herein is intended to or shall preempt any statutory duty or
authority of any federal, state, or local entity or official charged with
animal control, estray, control or impoundment, or other animal related
matters.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, obstruct,
resist or oppose any Animal Control Officer or other person authorized to
enforce the provisions of this chapter while such person is apprehending an
animal or performing any other duties or investigation. It shall be unlawful to
take or attempt to take any animal from any Animal Control Officer or from any
vehicle used by the officer to transport any animal or to take or attempt to
take any animal from the animal shelter or other kennel or confinement area, to
include live trap, used to impound an animal.
   (C)   In all instances of a violation of any provision of this chapter,
whether the animal is impounded or not, the owner or keeper of such animal may
be cited by an officer who has the authority to enforce
this chapter for any violation of this chapter. The Animal Control Division or
the Trinidad Police Department may also by policy establish a conditional
written warning procedure relating to general “at large” violations. The
receipt of such written warnings does not preclude the Animal Control Division
or the Trinidad Police Department from citing the recipient if the conditions
of the written warning are not met in a timely fashion.
   (D)   In the enforcement of this chapter, Animal Control Officers and police
officers shall have the authority to utilize firearms to kill or otherwise
disable any animal to protect themselves, to protect a third person or to
protect another animal from attack or threat of imminent injury or to prevent
such animal from enduring further pain or suffering as a result of disease or
injury. They shall also have the authority to tranquilize or trap any animal,
fowl, livestock or wildlife consistent with humane policies adopted by the
Animal Control Division.
   (E)   Unless specifically provided in this chapter, an offense under this
chapter shall not require a culpable mental state. It is the intent of this
chapter to impose strict liability for violation of the requirements of this
chapter.
   (F)   To aid in the administration of this chapter, the Animal Control
Division shall by policy making authority of the Chief of Police, adopt
administrative policies and operational procedures consistent with the purpose
and intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or
shall fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, within
the city limits shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be liable for a
fine not to exceed the sum of $500. Each day the violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense. Such penalty shall be in addition to all the
other remedies provided herein.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if, with intent to deceive, he or she
knowingly makes a false report or statement, either verbal or written, that is
material to an investigation of an alleged violation of this chapter to an
Animal Control Officer or other person authorized to enforce provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if he or she reports to a person
authorized to enforce provisions of this chapter an offense or incident within
that person’s concern knowing that the offense or incident did not occur.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-005, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 2010-
004, passed 4-21-2010; Ord. 2012-005, passed 6-19-2012)
 CHAPTER 95: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Recreational vehicle parking and storage regulations
   
95.03   Exceptions to the recreational vehicle parking regulations
   
95.04   Enforcement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning:
   CITY. The City of Trinidad, Henderson County, Texas.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council for the City of Trinidad, Texas.
   DILAPIDATED. A building or object in a state of disrepair or ruin as a
result of age or neglect. Synonyms: Run down, ramshackle, broken-down, in
disrepair, shabby, battered, rickety, shaky, unsound, crumbling, in ruins,
ruined, decayed, decaying, deteriorating, deteriorated, decrepit, worn out;
neglected, uncared-for, untended, unmaintained, badly maintained; the worse for
wear, falling to pieces, falling apart, gone to rack and ruin.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle primarily designed as temporary living
quarters or short-term occupancy for travel, recreational camping or vacation
use, including a motor home, motorized dwelling, boat with a cabin quarter,
travel trailer, camping trailer, utility trailer, livestock trailer, pop-up
tent trailer, self-contained pickup camper, and the like.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. Authorization such as a permit, term permit, which
allows extended use of a visiting recreational vehicle. The authorization is
granted for a specific period of time.
(Ord. 2019-001, passed - - )
§ 95.02 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING AND STORAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of property located
within the city to park or store, or allow any person to park or store any
recreational vehicle for longer than 30 days, unless it is parked in the back
yard or side yard not to impair the line of site and value of residential lots.
   (B)   No recreational vehicles can be parked in the front yard.
   (C)   All recreational vehicles of any type shall be currently licensed and/
or inspected.
   (D)   All recreational vehicles considered to be “dilapidated” must be
removed from property.
   (E)   No recreational vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping purposes
when parked or stored in the city, except for the temporary sleeping of guests
or residents not to exceed seven nights.
   (F)   Special use permits may be issued for circumstances as deemed
necessary by the city and approved by the City Council.
   (G)   All recreational vehicles must be registered with the city.
   (H)   All recreational vehicles must abide by TCEQ rules and regulations
regarding water and sewer.
(Ord. 2019-001, passed - - )
§ 95.03 EXCEPTIONS TO THE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The recreational vehicle of a visiting guest may be permitted to park
at a residence for no more than seven nights, so long as it is not parked on a
public street, road right-of-way, or public easement.
   (B)   All recreational vehicles must abide by TCEQ rules and regulations
regarding water and server.
(Ord. 2019-001, passed - - )
§ 95.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Trinidad Police Department, Code Enforcement Department or authorized
designee are authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-001, passed - - )
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be assessed a fine not to exceed $500 per offense. Each day that the
recreational vehicle is parked in violation of this chapter will constitute a
separate offense. A culpable mental state shall not be required when
prosecuting an offense under this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-001, passed - - )
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS, VENDORS, PEDDLERS AND THE LIKE
         
111.   JUNK AND SALVAGE YARDS
         
112.   SIDEWALK, GARAGE AND OUTDOOR SALES
         
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
114.   HOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX
CHAPTER 110: ITINERANT MERCHANTS, VENDORS, PEDDLERS AND THE LIKE
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Purpose
   
110.03   Prohibited activity
   
110.04   Application for license
   
110.05   Bond
   
110.06   Permit fee
   
110.07   Exceptions
   
110.08   Interstate commerce
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTERSTATE COMMERCE. Soliciting, selling or taking orders for, or offering
to take orders for any goods, wares, merchandise, photographs, newspapers,
books or magazines, or subscriptions to newspapers, books or magazines which,
at the time the order is taken, are in another state or will be produced in
another state and shipped or introduced into the city in the fulfillment of the
orders.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT , ITINERANT VENDOR or PEDDLER. Any person, firm, company,
partnership, corporation or association engaged in any activity listed in §
110.03.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 3-18-2014)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE.
   This entire chapter is and shall be deemed an exercise of the police power
of the State of Texas, and of the City of Trinidad, for the public safety,
comfort, convenience and protection of the city and its citizens, and all of
the provisions hereof shall be construed for the accomplishment of that
purpose.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 3-18-2014)
§ 110.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to go from house to house or
from place to place in the city peddling, soliciting, selling, or taking orders
for, or offering to peddle, sell, or take orders for any goods, wares,
merchandise, services, photographs, newspapers, magazines, books, or
subscriptions to newspapers, magazines or books, without having first applied
for and obtained a permit to do so from the City Secretary. It shall also
hereafter be unlawful to peddle, sell or solicit in the city as aforesaid,
without carrying such permit, while engaged in such peddling, soliciting or
selling.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 3-18-2014)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to go from house to house or from place to place
in the city, to peddle, sell or solicit orders for goods, wares, merchandise,
services, photographs, newspapers, magazines, books, or subscriptions to
newspapers, magazines or books, shall make written application to the City
Secretary for a permit to do so, which application shall give the following
information.
      (1)   Name, home address, and local address, if any, of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of this firm, person or corporation, if any, that
he or she represents or for whom or through whom orders are to be solicited or
cleared;
      (3)   Nature of the articles, services or things which are to be sold or
for which orders are to be solicited;
      (4)   Whether applicant, upon any sale or order shall demand, receive or
accept payment or deposit of money in advance of final delivery; and
      (5)   The period of time such applicant wishes to sell or solicit.
   (B)   The applicant, at the time of the application, as herein provided for,
shall submit for inspection of the City Secretary, written proof of his or her
identity, which may be in the form of an automobile operator’s license,
identification letter or card issued to applicant by the person, firm or
corporation for whom or through whom orders are to be solicited or cleared. Any
other proof of identity may be used, if deemed sufficient by the City
Secretary.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 3-18-2014)
§ 110.05 BOND.
   The application mentioned in §
110.04 hereof shall be accompanied by a bond in the penal sum of $1,000, signed
by applicant, and signed, as surety, by some corporate surety company,
authorized to business in the State of Texas, conditioned for the final
delivery of the goods, wares, merchandise, services, photographs, magazines,
books or newspapers in accordance with the terms of any order obtained prior to
delivery, and also conditioned to indemnify any and all purchasers or customers
for any and all defects in material or workmanship that may exist in the
articles sold by the principal of said bond, at the time of delivery, and that
may be discovered by such purchaser or customer within 30 days after delivery.
Such bond shall be for the use and benefit of all persons, firms, or
corporations that may make any purchase or give any order to the principal of
said bond, or to an agent or employee of the principal. Provided, that in case
applicant is a person, firm company, partnership, corporation or an association
engaging in any activity mentioned in §
110.03 hereof, through one or more agents or employees, such persons, firm,
company, partnership, corporation or association shall be required to enter
into only one bond, in the sum of $1,000 as above required, which shall be made
to cover the activities of all of such agents or employees.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 3-18-2014)
§ 110.06 PERMIT FEE.
   A permit fee, amounting to $100 shall be required for an itinerant merchant,
itinerant vendor, or peddler. Provided, however, that when any person firm,
company, partnership, corporation or association engaged in any activity listed
in §
110.03 hereof through one or more agents or employees, such person, firm,
company, partnership, corporation or association shall, in addition to said fee
of $100, above mentioned, pay an additional permit fee of $30 for each agent or
employee so engaged, all of which permits shall be valid for one year from the
date of their issuance. The fee as herein provided for shall be used for the
purpose of defraying expenses incident to the issuance of said permits.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 3-18-2014)
§ 110.07 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to sales made to dealers by
commercial travelers or sales agents in the usual course of business, nor to
vendors of farm or dairy products, nor to sales made under authority and by
order of law.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 3-18-2014)
§ 110.08 INTERSTATE COMMERCE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons engaged in
interstate commerce, as that term is herein defined; provided however, that it
shall be unlawful for persons engaged in interstate commerce to go from house
to house or place to place in the city, peddling, soliciting, selling, or
taking orders for, or offering to peddle, sell, or take order for any goods,
wares, merchandise, services, photographs, newspapers, magazines, books or
subscriptions to newspapers, magazines or books, without having first
registered with the City Secretary, giving the following information:
      (1)   Name, home address and local address, if any, of registrant;
      (2)   Name, and address of the person, firm or corporation, if any, that
he or she represents or for whom or through whom orders are to be solicited or
cleared;
      (3)   Nature of the articles or things which are sold or for which orders
are to be solicited;
      (4)   Whether registrant, upon any sale or order, shall demand or receive
or accept payment or deposit of money in advance of final delivery; and
      (5)   Period of time which registrant wishes to solicit or sell.
   (B)   The registrant, at the time of the registration, as herein provided
for, shall submit for inspection of the City Secretary, written proof of his
identity, which may be in the form of an automobile operator’s license,
identification letter or card issued to registrant by the person, firm, or
corporation for whom or through whom orders are to be solicited or cleared. Any
other means of identification may be used, if deemed sufficient by the City
Secretary.
   (C)   Additionally, any applicant obtaining a permit as required herein
shall also be required to obtain a criminal background check from the Trinidad
Police Department. Granting of the permit shall be conditioned upon receiving
approval from the Trinidad Police Department.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 3-18-2014)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter, or failing to observe any of the provisions hereof, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined in any sum not
less than $10 nor more than $100 and each and every day or fraction of a day
during which this chapter, or any part thereof, shall be violated, shall be
deemed a separate offense and punishable as such without the requirement of a
culpable mental state. Any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter
may be revoked for the violation by the permittee or licensee of any provisions
of this chapter, state law or other ordinance that directly relates to the
duties and responsibilities of the permittee or licensed occupation authorized
in the permit.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 3-18-2014)
CHAPTER 111: JUNK AND SALVAGE YARDS
Section
   
111.01   Nuisance declared
   
111.02   License and fee
   
111.03   Screening requirements
   
111.04   Exceptions
   
111.05   Planning and Zoning Commission review
   
111.06   License revocation
   
111.07   Civil proceedings
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any place used or maintained by any person as a junkyard or dumping ground;
for wrecking or disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, trailers,
mobile homes, manufactured homes or machinery of any kind; for the storing or
leaving of worn out, wrecked or abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, mobile
homes, manufactured homes or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof; or for the maintenance or the operation of the place for the
accumulation of rubbish, salvage materials, scrap or junk of any description
is, unless the activity and work is conducted in the manner stated in this
chapter following the payment of the license fee and obtaining of a license as
set forth in this ordinance, hereby declared to be a public and common
nuisance, being obnoxious and offensive to the inhabitants of the city, because
of its interference with the comfortable enjoyments of life and property by the
inhabitants, and the activity is prohibited within the city limits.
(Ord. 980811, passed 8-11-1998) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 LICENSE AND FEE.
   Any person desiring to use or maintain any property within the city for any
of the purposes mentioned in §
111.01 shall make written application to the City Secretary for a license,
which application shall set forth the name and address of the applicant and a
legal description of the property or premises upon which the business is to be
conducted. The application shall include a legal description of the land on
which the use is proposed, the plans and specifications for the fence and
screening materials, the location and plans for each entrance into the
property, the specific types of vehicles, metals or materials to be salvaged
and/or stored on the property, and the uses of all property within 200 feet of
the property for which the license is requested. The City Secretary shall grant
such application only if the application is approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and shows full compliance with the requirements of this chapter, and
all other local, state and federal laws and regulations. If the application is
granted, a license to operate the business shall be issued by the City
Secretary upon payment of a fee of $5 per annum. Any license so issued shall
expire on January 1 of the year next succeeding the date of its issuance, but
may be issued form year to year in the same manner as provided for in the
original license.
(Ord. 980811, passed 8-11-1998)
§ 111.03 SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person granted a license, as provided for in §
111.02, shall keep the premises used in the operation and maintenance of the
business in a neat and orderly condition. The property and premises on which
the business is conducted shall be enclosed by a tight board fence or any
comparable screening device approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission of
the city, that is at least six feet in height, to screen the premises from view
by the public. The fence shall be kept in a neatly painted condition, and no
junk of any character, parts or machinery of any kind shall be allowed to
remain outside the fence.
(Ord. 980811, passed 8-11-1998) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   An enterprise or business operating within the city on the effective date of
this chapter, that conducts one or more of the activities and work set forth in
§
111.01, and that is required to obtain a license pursuant to the requirements
of this chapter, shall have a period of nine months from the effective date of
this chapter to file a permit application, obtain the required license, and
complete the installation of the fences and screens required to comply with §
111.03.
(Ord. 980811, passed 8-11-1998)
§ 111.05 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION REVIEW.
   The City Secretary shall, before issuing any license pursuant to this
chapter, refer the application to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
approval or disapproval. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall, in its
decision and hearing process, consider the nature of the adjacent and
neighboring land uses, the location of the proposed use in relation to other
and similar uses within the city and the city's zoning plan, and the potential
impact, if any, of the proposed use on the health, safety and welfare of
adjacent and neighboring areas of the city.
(Ord. 980811, passed 8-11-1998)
§ 111.06 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   The City Council shall have the power to revoke the license provided for in
this chapter at any time after a finding that the person or entity holding the
license is in violation of this chapter and the violation has continued, or has
been repeated, after 30-days' notice and opportunity to comply with this
chapter, but only after notice has been given to the owner of the business of a
hearing to be held not less than ten days after the service of the notice.
(Ord. 980811, passed 8-11-1998)
§ 111.07 CIVIL PROCEEDINGS.
   This chapter and the requirements set forth herein may be enforced by the
city in a civil proceeding, either at law or in equity, and, in such event, the
land owner, licensee or occupant, of the premises on which the activity
described in §
111.01 is conducted or undertaken, shall be responsible for the reasonable and
necessary attorney fees and costs of court incurred by the city in filing and
prosecuting the civil action.
(Ord. 980811, passed 8-11-1998)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any firm, person or legal entity who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a separate offense for each day or portion thereof during
which any the violation is committed, continued, or permitted and each offense
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500. The City Council may initiate
injunction, mandamus, abatement or any other action available in law or equity
to require compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 980811, passed 8-11-1998)
CHAPTER 112: SIDEWALK, GARAGE AND OUTDOOR SALES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
Sale Regulations
   
112.15   Garage sales
   
112.16   [Reserved]
   
112.17   [Reserved]
   
112.18   [Reserved]
   
112.19   Prohibited outdoor sales actions
   
112.20   Sidewalk sales and outdoor sales
   
112.21   Outdoor sales permit
   
112.22   Exceptions and exemptions for sidewalk and outdoor sales
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or built for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
   CONTINUOUS SALE. A sale that is conducted, or that is permitted or allowed
to be conducted, by the owner or occupant of any building, lot, tract or parcel
of land, where any goods or merchandise are displayed outdoors and the public
is invited by displays, signs, advertising or in any other manner, to come for
the purpose of purchasing goods, wares or merchandise, more than twice in any
12 calendar months, or any such sale that continues for more than three
calendar days.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof, including built on-site and
modular buildings, and mobile homes, which is designed or used for residential
purposes.
   GARAGE SALES. All sales entitled garage sale, lawn sale, attic sale, rummage
sale, flea market sale, or any similar casual sale of tangible personal
property which is advertised by any means whereby the public at large is or can
be made aware of such sale.
   GOODS. Any goods, warehouse merchandise or other property capable of being
the object of a sale regulated under this chapter.
   OUTDOOR SALES. The sale of goods or merchandise outdoors, or outside of a
permanent commercial building or structure, within the business district or any
area used or occupied for retail or commercial use. A tent, vehicle, trailer or
similar shelter shall not be considered a permanent building or structure for
any flea market or other outdoor sales.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any lot, tract or parcel of land within the city that:
      (1)   Was laid out and platted for a dwelling;
      (2)   Has a dwelling located on the lot, tract or parcel;
      (3)   Is occupied and used as a residence; or
      (4)   Has not been used or occupied at anytime prior to the date of this
chapter for any retail, commercial or industrial use, and that has not been
designated by the city as being within an industrial area.
   RETAIL USE. Property used for the sale or rental of commonly used goods and
merchandise for personal, business or household use. Typical uses may include
department stores, furniture stores or establishments providing the following
products or services: home furnishings and appliances, household cleaning and
maintenance products; drugs, cards, stationery, notions, books, tobacco
products, cosmetics or specialty items; apparel, jewelry, fabrics, and like
items; cameras or photography services; household electronic equipment,
records, sporting equipment, kitchen utensils, small home appliances, art
supplies and framing, arts and antiques, paint, interior decorating services or
office supplies; bicycles, wallpaper, carpeting and floor-covering; hardware;
food; feeds, seeds and fertilizer; or automotive parts and accessories
(excluding service and installation).
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or ROW. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
a publicly owned and maintained street, that is used, set aside, dedicated,
reserved or platted as a street or highway, including that part or portion
between the travel lanes of the street and the property line of the abutting
property. The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY or ROW shall mean every right-of-
way within the city that is shown on an official map of the city, Bell County
or the state, to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining
the right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of the lots or
parcels.
   SIDEWALK SALE. Any sales activity conducted from or within a sidewalk area
of any lot tract or parcel of land within the city, or in any area adjacent
thereto and abutting any city right-of-way, or any outdoor sale conducted from
or within the right-of-way of any public street, alley or other public
property.
   STRUCTURE. Any building or structure constructed or erected on the ground or
which is attached to something located on the ground. STRUCTURES include
buildings, telecommunications towers and sheds that are the primary use of a
parcel.
(Ord. passed - -2003; Am. Ord. 2019-003, passed 3-29-2019)
SALE REGULATIONS
§ 112.15 GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to or
affect the following persons or sales:
      (1)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials.
      (3)   Any person selling or advertising for sale an item of personal
property which is specifically named or described in the advertisement and
which separate items do not exceed five in number.
   (B)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a
garage sale in the city without first filing with the city a permit to do so,
to be known as a garage sale permit.
   (C)   Permit issuance and display. A garage sale permit shall be issued to
any one person or location only four times within a 12-month period and no such
permit shall be issued for more than three consecutive calendar days; provided
that a permit may be issued to a community non-profit organization that
organizes and sponsors a garage or yard sale where individuals offer goods for
sale, as a fundraising project. Each permit issued must be prominently
displayed on the premises upon which the garage sale is conducted throughout
the entire period of the permitted sale. Permit cost of $10 includes permit and
one sign. Additional signs will cost $1 per sign.
   (D)   Required information. The information to be filed with the Clerk,
pursuant to this division shall be follows:
      (1)   Name of person, firm, group, corporation, association, or
organization conducting the sale;
      (2)   Name of owner of the property on which the sale is to be conducted
and consent of owner if applicant is other than the owner;
      (3)   Address at which sale is to be conducted;
      (4)   Day(s) of sale;
      (5)   Date of sale;
      (6)   Sworn statement of affirmation by the person signing that the
information given is full and true and known to him or her to be so.
   (E)   Garage sale signs.
      (1)   Garage sale signs may not be erected earlier than one day preceding
the sale and shall be removed within one day following the sale. Signs will
show the date(s) of the sale. A permit to hold a garage sale is required
separate from the signage.
      (2)   The placement or installation of a garage sale sign in the right-
of-way of any street, alley or public property is prohibited. No sign shall be
erected or affixed within or project over any public right-of-way or across the
public right-of-way line extended across a railroad right-of-way. This section
shall not be construed so as to prohibit vehicular signs as long as such comply
with other provisions of this section; nor to prohibit the carrying or display
of signs by a person or persons as long as such sign is not connected or
affixed to the real property comprising the public right-of-way, its fixtures
and appurtenances.
   (F)   Display, removal and storage of merchandise. It shall be the duty and
responsibility of each person or entity obtaining a permit for a garage or yard
sale, or holding or participating in a garage or yard sale, to comply with this
section. No goods or merchandise shall be displayed outdoors for a period of
more than 24 hours prior to the effective time authorized by the applicable
permit for the garage sale and all such goods and merchandise shall be removed
and stored immediately upon the close and termination of the sale. No goods or
merchandise shall remain outdoors, or on any driveway, lawn or other open area,
for a period of more than 24 hours prior to the beginning time of the sale or
for a period of more than 24 hours after the expiration of the permit for the
sale. All such goods and merchandise shall be moved to and stored in a roofed
and enclosed room or building. Any person who shall violate this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2019-003, passed 3-29-2019)
§ 112.16 [RESERVED.]
§ 112.17 [RESERVED.]
§ 112.18 [RESERVED.]
§ 112.19 PROHIBITED OUTDOOR SALES ACTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any property in the city,
acting alone or in combination with any other person, to violate any of the
following provisions of this section.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to display goods and merchandise outdoors:
      (1)   Nearer than ten feet to the motor vehicle travel portion of any
highway, street or road;
      (2)   On a sidewalk, except during a festival, homecoming or other
special event sponsored or permitted by the city; or
      (3)   During a festival or special event, to display goods on a sidewalk
that are not stacked, well ordered and contained within an area so as to leave
at least four feet of clearance on the sidewalk unobstructed for use by
pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to fail to move goods, wares or merchandise, that
are displayed outdoors in an area that is open to the public, into a building
at the close of business each day, or to place the same outdoors prior to 7:00
a.m. or to leave the same outdoors after 10:00 p.m. on any day.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to display any goods or merchandise on a sidewalk
or outdoors that are not displayed and offered for sale by a business operating
in a permanent commercial building that abuts the outdoor display area.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to deposit, display or store any merchandise,
food or economic good upon any portion of a sidewalk or public right-of-way, or
thereon to construct, erect, install or place any case, stand, table or other
type of receptacle, structure or fixture whatsoever for any such purpose,
without first obtaining a license authorized by this chapter.
   (E)   Except as otherwise specifically excepted, exempted or authorized by
ordinance, it shall be unlawful to store or display goods or merchandise
outdoors in an area located closer than 25 feet from the boundary line of the
property on which it is stored or displayed, unless the goods and merchandise
are screened from public view by a solid wood or masonry fence at least six
feet tall. Further, any outside storage or outside use area established after
the effective date of this chapter shall be screened by a solid wood or masonry
fence at least six feet in height. No materials may be stored higher than the
screening provided.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person storing or displaying goods or
merchandise outdoors to fail to comply with the following.
      (1)   No merchandising, nor the storage or stacking of the merchandise
may exceed four feet in height (except Christmas trees displayed in vertical
position).
      (2)   No merchandise may extend more than five feet from the front wall
of the building.
      (3)   A four-foot wide unobstructed walkway must be provided between the
curb, fire lane, maneuvering aisle or parking space and any stored and/or
displayed merchandise.
      (4)   No stored merchandise, goods or products may be situated such that
visibility of any motor vehicle traffic lane is obstructed.
      (5)   No area used for the outside storage or display of merchandise
shall be located within 25 feet of the rear or side lot line of any
residentially occupied property or any property abutting property having a
dwelling, unless the area used for display is enclosed by a solid fence at
least six feet in height and constructed of wood or masonry.
      (6)   Store or display goods or merchandise (except Christmas trees) an
any area designated for off-street parking.
      (7)   All city fire, building and other codes shall be strictly complied
with.
(Ord. passed - -2003) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.20 SIDEWALK SALES AND OUTDOOR SALES.
   Sidewalk and outdoor sales are regulated and controlled for the purposes of
protecting pedestrian and motor vehicle traffic, creating a cleaner and more
attractive environment, promoting the economic welfare of the community, and
providing for the public health, safety and welfare. To assist the
accomplishment of those purposes, sidewalk and outdoor sales are regulated as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2003)
§ 112.21 OUTDOOR SALES PERMIT.
   On showing compliance with the requirements of this chapter the owner or
occupant of a commercial or business property abutting State Highway 31 may
obtain, as applicable, an annual license for the display of goods and
merchandise outdoors.
   (A)   License requirements. The license shall not be issued unless the
applicant establishes:
      (1)   The specific area in which the display will be made;
      (2)   A limited list of goods or merchandise that will be displayed;
      (3)   The display will not result in any increased hazard, safety risk or
inconvenience to pedestrian or motor vehicle traffic;
      (4)   The display will not be inconsistent with establishing or
maintaining a business and shopping area that is attractive to the shopping
public;
      (5)   The goods or merchandise are of a type and material that will not
decay, rust or deteriorate during the time it is displayed outdoors; and
      (6)   The goods will be displayed, stored, organized and managed in a
manner and according to a plan approved by the City Administrator or Council.
   (B)   Compliance. The application for any license pursuant to this section
shall also establish that the sale will be maintained and conducted in full
compliance with each of the terms, provisions and conditions set forth in §
112.19. Any license or permit issued pursuant to this section may be suspended
by the City Administrator, or suspended or revoked by the City Council, if the
licensee fails to remain in compliance with the requirements of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, the requirements of division (A) above and §
112.19.
   (C)   Appeal. Any person making application for a permit under this section
may make a written appeal to the City Council from a denial of a permit or from
any standard or plan requirement pursuant to division (A)(6) above. The City
Council shall hear and decide any such appeal within 30 days. The decision of
the City Council shall be final and non-appealable.
(Ord. passed - -2003)
§ 112.22 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS FOR SIDEWALK AND OUTDOOR SALES.
   (A)   The provisions of §§
112.19 and
112.21 shall not apply to or affect the following persons or sales:
      (1)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
      (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers, authority and duty
as a public employee or official;
      (3)   Persons and businesses participating in a special program or
festival that is sponsored or permitted by the city for a period of not more
than ten consecutive days during the term of the special program or festival,
for the purpose of promoting the local economy or community; and
      (4)   Sales of operable vehicles and automobiles, farming implements,
trailers, farming and construction equipment, construction supplies, feed,
seed, hay and similar goods and merchandise that is customarily stored and
displayed outdoors for lengthy periods of time. The following items and
similarly packaged items may be displayed and/or stored outside the main
building subject to the conditions contained in this ordinance: bagged grass
seed; bagged fertilizer; bagged mulch; bagged bark chips; bagged play sand and
similar seasonal bagged products that can be stored in an orderly manner and
will not rust, decay or deteriorate during the season they are stored outdoors,
rock and soil; firewood stacked not more than four feet high; Christmas trees,
and a maximum of ten portable boxes, bins or other such containers, not to
exceed 96-gallon capacity each, for the purpose of collecting aluminum cans,
glass, grocery bags or plastic bottles.
   (B)   The prohibitions in this chapter shall not apply to the actual
movement of merchandise or economic goods over or across sidewalks when such
movement is made or accomplished as one continuous transaction of temporary
duration to or from buildings and/or vehicles in a sale, storage or other
transfer for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   The prohibitions in this chapter shall not prohibit the display of
merchandise normally placed on gasoline pumps and/or gasoline pump islands.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this chapter shall not be construed to apply to
merchandise dispensing units, (e.g., soft drink machines, newspaper racks, pay
telephones, ATMs) placed adjacent to and outside of a business building, where
at least three feet of sidewalk remains unobstructed for pedestrian use.
(Ord. passed - -2003)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold a continuous sale without first
obtaining a permit for the sale or to violate any of the restrictions on the
sale specified herein. It shall be further unlawful for any person to hold
sidewalk sale or conduct outdoor sales in the commercial districts of the city,
except as exempted from the prohibition. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $500. Each day in violation of
any provision of this chapter shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. passed - -2003)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
113.01   State law authority
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License and permit fees
   
113.04   Payment of fees
   
113.05   Review and recommendation
   
113.06   Hours of operation
   
113.07   Cancellation and suspension of permits
   
113.08   Violations
   
113.09   Sale of alcoholic beverages near school, church or hospital
   
113.10   Beer sales in residential area prohibited
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 STATE LAW AUTHORITY.
   This ordinance herein codified is passed pursuant to and is referable to the
Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code (“TABC”), and the provisions of such code are
hereby adopted insofar as the same are applicable, and shall govern the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-010, passed 11-16-2012)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, all definitions, words, terms, and phrases
set forth in the TABC, as amended from time to time, are hereby adopted and
made a part hereof.
(Ord. 2012-010, passed 11-16-2012)
§ 113.03 LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted to cities in TABC § 11.38, there is
hereby prescribed and levied an annual permit fee for each premises located
within the city that is required to obtain and hold a permit issued under the
provisions of TABC Ch. 11. Such annual fee is hereby established as an amount
equal to one-half (50%) of the annual state permit fee payable for and with
respect to each such premises, save and except the applicable exemptions to the
fee identified in TABC § 11.38(d), as amended, shall apply.
   (B)   Pursuant to the authority granted to cities in TABC § 61.36, there is
hereby prescribed and levied an annual license fee for each premises located
within the city that is required to obtain and hold a permit issued under the
provisions of TABC Ch. 61. Such annual license fee is hereby established as an
amount equal to one-half (50%) of the annual state license fee payable for and
with respect to each such premises.
(Ord. 2012-010, passed 11-16-2012)
§ 113.04 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   All fees required pursuant to this chapter shall be paid in advance to the
City Secretary at the same time that the state annual renewal fee is due and
payable. The City Secretary shall issue an appropriate receipt for the payment
of each such fee and the holder of the state permit or license involved shall
display the receipt in some conspicuous place on the premises in the same
manner that the applicable state license or permit is displayed.
(Ord. 2012-010, passed 11-16-2012)
§ 113.05 REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION.
   For the purposes of obtaining a recommendation as provided for in TABC §
11.41, every person, firm or entity making application for a permit, pursuant
to TABC Ch. 11 or Ch. 61, within the city, shall be required to provide such
information as may be reasonably required, including a copy of the application
made to the Alcoholic Beverage Commission (the “Commission”) and a personal
history, to the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall review the
application and materials, make such reasonable investigation as is deemed
prudent, and make a written recommendation pursuant to TABC § 11.41. In the
event the Chief of Police makes written objection to the issuance of any such
permit or license, such recommendation shall be communicated to the Commission
and no city permit or license shall be issued by the city on the application
until such time, if any, as the Commission shall grant the requested permit or
license.
(Ord. 2012-010, passed 11-16-2012)
§ 113.06 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   A permittee or licensee operating a authorized bar or private club within
the city limits may sell and allow persons to consume or be served alcoholic
beverages on the premises on during all other hours as may be permitted by the
TABC.
(Ord. 2012-010, passed 11-16-2012)
§ 113.07 CANCELLATION AND SUSPENSION OF PERMITS.
   A permit or license issued pursuant to this chapter may be canceled, denied
or revoked as provided in TABC Ch. 11, Subch. C, or TABC Ch. 61, Subch. C. The
city shall have all powers, duties and remedies permitted in TABC Ch. 11 or Ch.
61.
(Ord. 2012-010, passed 11-16-2012)
§ 113.08 VIOLATIONS.
   A licensee or permittee who sells an alcoholic beverage without first having
paid the fees levied under this chapter or who fails to pay the full amount of
the fees levied under this chapter when due commits an offense.
(Ord. 2012-010, passed 11-16-2012) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES NEAR SCHOOL, CHURCH, OR HOSPITAL.
   (A)   Prohibition on sale of alcoholic beverages. It shall be unlawful for
any person to sell either wholesale or retail, any alcoholic beverage (as
defined by the Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code) within 300 feet of a church,
public school, private school, or public hospital.
   (B)   Measuring distance.
      (1)   Church or public hospital. The measurement of the distance between
the place of business where the alcoholic beverage is sold and the church or
public hospital shall be along the property lines of the street fronts and from
front door to front door and in direct line across intersections.
      (2)   Public or private schools. The measurement of the distance between
the place of business where the alcoholic beverage is sold and the public or
private school shall be:
         (a)   In a direct line from the property line of the public or private
school to the property line of the place of business, and in a direct line
across intersections; or
         (b)   If the permit or license holder is located on or above the fifth
story of a multistory building, in a direct line from the property line of the
public or private school to the property line of the place of business, in a
direct line across intersections, and vertically up the building at the
property line to the base of the floor on which the permit or license holder is
located.
   (C)   TABC controls. In the event of a conflict between the method of
measuring distance set forth in this chapter and set forth in TABC § 109.33, as
amended, the measurement set forth in the TABC shall control.
(Ord. 2012-010, passed 11-16-2012) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 BEER SALES IN RESIDENTIAL AREA PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, either wholesale or retail,
beer within any residential area of the city.
(Ord. 2012-010, passed 11-16-2012) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter as set forth in §
113.08 commits a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than $10 or more
than $200. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
Such penalty shall be in addition to all the other remedies provided herein.
Any violation of this chapter may be used as grounds for cancellation,
suspension or denial of a permit.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
113.09 or
113.10, or shall fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements
thereof, within the city limits shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall
be liable for a fine not to exceed the sum of $500. Each day the violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense. Such penalty shall be in addition
to all the other remedies provided herein.
(Ord. 2012-010, passed 11-16-2012)
CHAPTER 114: HOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Imposition of tax
   
114.03   Collection of tax
   
114.04   Reporting of receipts for sleeping rooms
   
114.05   Payment of tax
   
114.06   Assessment for late report or payment
   
114.07   Interest on taxes due and unpaid
   
114.08   Attorney fees and costs
   
114.09   Collection of delinquent taxes
   
114.10   Deposits and uses
   
114.11   Records
   
114.12   Tourism
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning. Words used in the present tense include
the future tense. Words used in the plural number include the singular, and
words in the singular include the plural. The word "shall" is always mandatory.
The word "herein" means in this chapter. The word "regulations" means the
provisions of any applicable ordinance, rule, regulation or policy. The words
"used" or "occupied," as applied to any room or building, shall be construed to
include the words intended, arranged, or agreed to be used or occupied.
   CONSIDERATION. The cost of a room or accommodation, or the value given for
the use of a room or accommodation, that is ordinarily used for sleeping, and
does not include the cost of any food served or personal services rendered to
the occupant of such room not related to the cleaning and readying of such room
or accommodation for occupancy.
   ETJ. The extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city as established by state
law and all extraterritorial jurisdictions as is otherwise established by the
city and landowners as authorized by state law.
   HOTEL. A building in which members of the public obtain sleeping
accommodations for consideration. The term includes a hotel, motel, tourist
home, tourist house, tourist court, lodging house, inn, rooming house, short-
term rental, or bed and breakfast. The term does not include a hospital,
sanitarium, nursing home, or a dormitory as defined in § 156.001 of the Tex.
Tax Code.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or accommodation in a hotel if the room or accommodation is one
ordinarily used for sleeping and if the occupant's uses, possession, or right
to use or possession extends for a period of less than 30 consecutive calendar
days.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who, for consideration, uses, possesses, or has a right
to use or possess, any room or accommodation in a hotel if the room or
accommodation is one ordinarily used for sleeping.
   PERSON or PERSONS. Any human being or legal entity and includes a
corporation, a partnership, and an incorporated or unincorporated association
owning, operating, managing or controlling any hotel within the city or its
ETJ.
   QUARTER or QUARTERLY PERIOD. A quarter of the calendar year. The first
quarter is composed of the months of January, February, and March; the second
quarter is composed of the months of April, May, and June; the third quarter is
composed of the months of July, August, and September; and the fourth quarter
is composed of the months of October, November and December.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. The rental of all or part of a residential property to a
person who is not a permanent resident under § 152.001 of the Tex. Tax Code.
   TOURISM. The guidance or management of tourists.
   VISITOR INFORMATION CENTER. A building or a portion of a building used to
distribute or disseminate information to tourists.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 114.02 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby levied a tax upon the cost of occupancy of sleeping
accommodations in hotels, located within the city or within the city's
extraterritorial jurisdiction for which the occupancy cost of the room is $2 or
more per day. Such occupancy tax shall be 7% of the consideration paid for such
sleeping room. The tax shall not apply to a person who is a permanent resident
of sleeping accommodation under Ch. 156 of the Tex. Tax Code.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 114.03 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   Every person owning, operating, managing or controlling any hotel within the
city or its ETJ shall collect the tax imposed and provided herein.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 114.04 REPORTING OF RECEIPTS FOR SLEEPING ROOMS.
   On or before the last day of the month following each quarter, every person
required to collect the tax imposed herein shall file a report with the city
showing the consideration paid for all sleeping accommodations during the
preceding quarter and the amount of tax collected on such occupancies and
sleeping rooms.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 114.05 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   On or before the last day of the month following each quarter, every person
required to collect the tax imposed herein shall pay the tax due to the city
for the preceding quarterly period. If the occupancy of any sleeping room is by
state law exempt from the tax established pursuant to §
114.02, it shall be the responsibility of the person required to collect the
tax to document and provide records establishing the exemption.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 114.06 ASSESSMENT FOR LATE REPORT OR PAYMENT.
   Any person who shall fail to file a report as required herein or who shall
fail to pay the tax as imposed herein when said report or payment is due, shall
forfeit 5% of the amount due as a penalty. In the event any past due tax is not
paid within 30 days after the due date, the person shall forfeit an additional
5% of such tax as an additional penalty.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 114.07 INTEREST ON TAXES DUE AND UNPAID.
   Taxes remaining due and unpaid from and after the last day of the calendar
month following the quarter for which such taxes are due and payable shall draw
interest at the rate of the prime rate plus one percent, as published in The
Wall Street Journal on the first day of the calendar year for which the tax is
due and unpaid, beginning 60 days from the last day of the quarterly period for
which such taxes are payable.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 114.08 ATTORNEY FEES AND COSTS.
   If the matter of a report not being filed, or taxes not being paid, when
due, is forwarded to the City Attorney for action, an amount equal to 15% of
the taxes, penalties and interest finally determined to be owing and payable
shall be added to such amount as attorney fees and costs of collection. In the
event that any action is required to be filed in any state court to obtain the
required report or to collect delinquent taxes, the person(s) responsible for
collecting the taxes and filing the report shall be liable to the city for its
reasonable attorney fees and costs, provided that such attorney fees shall in
no event be less than 15% of the total amount of taxes, penalties and interest
due and payable.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 114.09 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT TAXES.
   The City Administrator is authorized and directed to notify the City
Attorney as to any Hotel Occupancy Tax for which a report is not timely filed,
or for which the tax is not timely paid, as required by this chapter. Upon the
City Administrator referring the delinquent report or delinquent tax to the
City Attorney, an additional amount equal to 15% of the total amount due in
taxes, penalties and interest shall be added to the amount due and payable.
Upon the receipt of such notification from the City Administrator, the City
Attorney:
   (A)   Is directed to promptly give written notice to the person owning,
operating, managing or controlling the hotel for which such report has not been
received, or for which the taxes have not been paid, demanding the report be
promptly filed and that the taxes be promptly paid, as applicable;
   (B)   Is directed to pursue the demand for performance and compliance with
this chapter, including the payment and collection of all applicable penalties,
interest, late charges, attorney fees and charges; and
   (C)   In the event the report is not filed or, as applicable, all amounts
due and payable are not paid, within 30 days after the date of the demand by
the City Attorney, the City Attorney is authorized and directed to file suit
to:
      (1)   Obtain the filing of any report required by this chapter;
      (2)   Obtain the payment of all taxes, penalties, interest and fees due
and payable pursuant to this chapter;
      (3)   Obtain an injunction prohibiting the continued operation of the
hotel for which the report has not been filed, or for which the taxes have not
been paid; and
      (4)   To obtain such other and further relief that may be available at
law or in equity.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 114.10 DEPOSITS AND USES.
   Subject to the legislative discretion of this and future City Councils, 60%
of all Hotel Occupancy Taxes received by the city shall be deposited into an
escrow account to be held and maintained by the city. The funds and balances of
the escrow account shall be managed and invested in compliance with the city's
investment policy and all earnings of such escrow account shall be deposited in
and remain in such account. The escrow account shall be reserved, held and
increased for any purpose allowed by Ch. 351, Subch. B of the Tex. Tax Code, as
amended.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 114.11 RECORDS.
   The city shall maintain a record that accurately identifies the receipt and
expenditure of all revenue derived from the tax imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 114.12 TOURISM.
   Subject to future appropriations and actions by the City Council, 40% of the
Hotel Occupancy Tax receipts are hereby set aside and appropriated for the
advertisement of the city and promoting tourism within the city. Such funds are
currently appropriated annually for the promotion of tourism and the operation
of a visitor information center.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   A person required by this chapter to collect the tax imposed herein or to
make reports as required herein who fails to collect the tax, file the report,
or pay the tax, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 for each offense. The failure to
collect the tax, to file the required report, and to pay the tax collected
prior to such payment becoming past due, shall each constitute and be a
separate offense punishable by penalty.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 10-15-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   CURFEW
         
131.   FIREARMS
         
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Offenses
   
130.03   Defenses
   
130.04   Enforcement
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the city or a designated
representative.
   CURFEW HOURS.
      (1)   10:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday
until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
      (2)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Friday or Saturday.
   DIRECT ROUTE. The shortest path of travel through a public place to reach a
final destination without any detour or stop along the way.
   EMERGENCY. A fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any
situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss
of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   MINOR. A person less than 17 years of age.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PARENT. A person who is:
      (1)   A natural or adoptive parent of another person;
      (2)   A court-appointed guardian of another person; or
      (3)   At least 21 years of age and authorized by a parent or court
appointed guardian to have the care and custody of another person.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, alley, highway,
sidewalk, playground, park, building, the common areas of schools or other
places used by or open to the public.
   REMAIN. To:
      (1)   Linger or stay unnecessarily; or
      (2)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
(Ord. 2008-006, passed 8-19-2008; Ord. 2013-002, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 130.02 OFFENSES.
   (A)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   (B)   A parent of a minor commits an offense if he or she knowingly permits,
or by insufficient control, allows the minor to remain in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours. The
owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an offense if he or
she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the establishment
during the curfew hours.
   (C)   The owner or operator of an establishment or business commits an
offense if the owner or operator knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the
premises of the establishment or business during curfew hours.
(Ord. 2008-006, passed 8-19-2008; Ord. 2013-002, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see
§
130.99
§ 130.03 DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
130.02 that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent and was using a
direct route;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, including, but not limited to,
newspaper delivery, and was using a direct route;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the police
officer about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school or religious activity or returning
home by a direct route from an official school or religious activity;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free excise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; and/or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with Tex. Family Code Ch. 31.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
130.02 that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the Police Department that a minor was present on the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. 2008-006, passed 8-19-2008; Ord. 2013-002, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 130.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the
public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this chapter unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
§
130.03 is present.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, a police officer, upon finding a
minor in violation of §
130.02(A), may take the minor into custody and deliver the minor to a holding
location if:
      (1)   Reasonable grounds exist to believe the minor has engaged in
delinquent conduct or conduct indicating a need for supervision in accordance
with Tex. Family Code §§ 51.03 and 52.01; and/or
      (2)   When a minor is taken into custody under this section, the Police
Department shall immediately notify a parent to pick up the minor at the
holding location. After a parent arrives at a holding location and provides the
information required by the Chief of Police to file an incident report, the
minor shall be released into the custody of the parent. If a parent cannot be
located or fails to take charge of the minor, the minor shall be released to
the juvenile authorities.
   (C)   If a minor is not taken into custody for a violation of §
130.02(A), the Police Department shall by certified mail, return receipt
requested, notify a parent of the minor that the minor has violated §
130.02(A) and include a warning that any subsequent violation may result in
prosecution of the minor and the parent under this section. If the minor was
found in violation of §
130.02(A) at an establishment, the Police Department shall by certified mail,
return receipt requested, notify the owner, operator or employee if the
establishment of the violation and include a warning that any subsequent
violation may result in prosecution if the owner, operator and employee under
this section.
   (D)   A police officer shall, within 24 hours after finding a minor in
violation of §
130.02(A), file a written report on the incident or assist to the extent
possible in the preparation and filing of the report by a supervisor.
(Ord. 2008-006, passed 8-19-2008; Ord. 2013-002, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates a provision of this section is guilty of a
separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the violation is
committed, continued or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction, is punishable
by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   When required by Tex. Family Code § 51.08, as amended, the Municipal
Court shall waive original jurisdiction over a minor who violates §
130.02(A) and shall refer the minor to Juvenile Court.
(Ord. 2008-006, passed 8-19-2008; Ord. 2013-002, passed 5-21-2013)
CHAPTER 131: FIREARMS
Section
   
131.01   Prohibited actions
   
131.02   Exceptions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   Any person who discharges any rifle, pistol, pellet gun or air gun of any
kind, by whatever name known, that by means of compressed air, compressed gas,
springs or any others means is capable of discharging shots, pellets or any
solid object at a velocity in excess of 300 feet per second shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 60-5, passed 7-5-1960) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to the discharge of firearms or other
weapons in the city's extraterritorial jurisdiction or in an area annexed by
the city after 9-1-1981, if the firearm or other weapon is:
      (1)   A shotgun, air rifle or pistol, BB gun, or bow and arrow
discharged:
         (a)   On a tract of land of ten acres or more and more than 150 feet
from a residence or occupied building located on another property; and
         (b)   In a manner not reasonably expected to cause a projectile to
cross the boundary of the tract; or
      (2)   A center fire or rim fire rifle or pistol of any caliber
discharged:
         (a)   On a tract of land of 50 acres or more and more than 300 feet
from a residence or occupied building located on another property; and
         (b)   In a manner not reasonably expected to cause a projectile to
cross the boundary of the tract.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to the discharge of a firearm:
      (1)   By a licensed peace officer in the course and scope of carrying out
his or her law enforcement duties; or
      (2)   By a person who is justified in using deadly force under in Tex.
Penal Code, Subch. D and E.
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
131.01, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 60-5, passed 7-5-1960)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Smoking Products and Paraphernalia
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Smoking products and paraphernalia prohibited
   
132.03   Affirmative defenses to prosecution
Sexual Predator Residency Restrictions
   
132.10   Adoption of findings of fact
   
132.11   Definitions
   
132.12   Offenses
   
132.13   Evidentiary matters; measurements
   
132.14   Affirmative defenses and exceptions
   
132.15   Request for variance
 
   
132.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public safety, see
Ch. 91
SMOKING PRODUCTS AND PARAPHERNALIA
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ILLEGAL SMOKING MATERIAL PARAPHERNALIA. Any paraphernalia, equipment, or
utensil that is used or intended to be used in smoking, ingesting or inhaling
smoking materials and shall include the following:
      (1)   A metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipe
with or without a screen, permanent screen hashish head, or punctured metal
bowl;
      (2)   A water pipe;
      (3)   A carburetion tube or device;
      (4)   A smoking or carburetion mask;
      (5)   A chamber pipe;
      (6)   A carburetor pipe;
      (7)   An electric pipe;
      (8)   A chillum;
      (9)   A bong; or
      (10)   An ice pipe or chiller.
(Ord. 2011-006, passed 12-20-2011)
§ 132.02 SMOKING PRODUCTS AND PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to prohibit the use, possession,
purchase, sale, exchanging, dispensing, distribution, manufacture, or delivery
of smoking material paraphernalia as defined, and to prohibit the possession
for sale of these materials within the city limits of the City of Trinidad,
Texas. Any form of delivery to include a simple gift constitutes a violation of
this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of any public building
and/or business to sell, offer to sell, deliver to, or to give any smoking
material paraphernalia (as defined in §
132.01) to any person.
(Ord. 2011-006, passed 12-20-2011) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION.
   It shall be an affirmative defense to prosecution under this subchapter that
smoking paraphernalia was:
   (A)   In the possession of a peace officer or a person acting under the
authority of a peace officer acting in the performance of official duties;
   (B)   In the possession of or being used by a governmental entity for a
health research education or similar program; or
   (C)   In the possession of or used by a person at the written direction or
under a issued by a licensed physician or dentist.
(Ord. 2011-006, passed 12-20-2011)
SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
§ 132.10 ADOPTION OF FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The findings and recitations set out in this subchapter are found to be true
and correct and they are hereby adopted by the City Council and made a part
hereof for all purposes as findings of fact. The City Council further finds
that certain predator sex offenders are likely to repeat offenses, to have many
more victims than are ever reported, and to be prosecuted for only a fraction
of their actual sexual offenses. The City Council further finds that many
children lack the ability to protect themselves from predator sex offenders.
The Council further finds that the safety of children is paramount and the
restrictions provided in this subchapter will serve the public safety of the
children and the public welfare by providing some peace of mind to parents.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 132.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DATABASE. The central database, also known as the Texas Department of Public
Safety Public Sex Offender Database, required to be maintained by the Texas
Department of Public Safety pursuant to Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure, Art.
62.005, as amended.
   DAY-CARE CENTER. A child care facility that is registered licensed or listed
by the State of Texas.
   MINOR. A person younger than 17 years of age.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides for
14 or more consecutive days.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, firm, corporation, or other business entity.
   PREMISES WHERE CHILDREN COMMONLY GATHER. Including but not limited to,
public parks, playgrounds, private and public schools, amusement arcades, video
arcade facilities and youth centers, indoor and outdoor amusement centers that
cater primarily to children, amusement parks, public swimming pools, child-care
facilities, and day-care centers, as defined in Sections 341.064 and 481.134
Tex. Health and Safety Code, §§ 341.064 and 481.134 and Tex. Human Resources
Code, § 42.002. For the purposes of this subchapter, planted street medians are
not public parks.
   RECURRING VISITOR. A person who on at least three occasions during any month
spends more than 48 consecutive hours in the city.
   REGISTRANT. A person who has a reportable conviction or adjudication or who,
pursuant to Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure, Ch. 62, is required to register
with the Texas Department of Public Safety's Database as a condition of parole,
release to mandatory supervision, or community supervision.
   REPORTABLE CONVICTION OR ADJUDICATION. A conviction or adjudication,
including an adjudication of delinquent conduct or a deferred adjudication,
that, regardless of the pendency of an appeal, is a conviction for or an
adjudication for or based on those enumerated offenses set forth in Tex. Code
of Criminal Procedure, Art. 62.001(5), as amended.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE.
      (1)   A place where a person abodes, lodges, or resides for a period of
14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and which is not the
person's permanent address; or
      (2)   A place where a person routinely abodes, resides or lodges for a
period of four or more consecutive or non-consecutive days in any month and
which is not the person's permanent residence.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 132.12 OFFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a registrant to establish a permanent
residence or temporary residence within 1,000 feet of any premises where
children commonly gather.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to lease, rent, or otherwise provide any
residence, dwelling, place, structure, or part thereof, manufactured home,
trailer, or other conveyance, with the knowledge that it will be used as a
permanent residence or temporary residence by a registrant.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 132.13 EVIDENTIARY MATTERS; MEASUREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be prima facie evidence that this subchapter applies to a
person if that person's record appears on the Database and the Database
indicates that the victim was less than 17 years of age.
   (B)   For the purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the
distance shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer property
line of the permanent or temporary residence to the nearest property line of
the premises where children commonly gather. Provided that, in the case of
multiple residences on one property, measurement shall be from the nearest wall
of the building or structure occupied or the parking/driveway, whichever is
closer, following a straight line to the nearest property line of the premises
where children commonly gather.
   (C)   In cases of a dispute over measured distances, it shall be incumbent
upon the person challenging the measurement to prove otherwise.
   (D)   A map depicting the 1,000 foot child safety zones shall be maintained
by the city and is attached as Exhibit A to Ordinance 2014-005 and incorporated
herein by reference. The Chief of Police or designee shall review, update or
modify the map as deemed necessary. The map will be available to the public at
the Trinidad Police Department.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 132.14 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES AND EXCEPTIONS.
   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution that any of the following
conditions apply, provided that there is no court order in effect applicable to
the registrant that provides otherwise:
   (A)   The registrant established the permanent or temporary residence and
has complied with all of the sex offender registration laws of the State of
Texas prior to the date of the adoption of this subchapter.
   (B)   The registrant was a minor when he or she committed the offense
requiring such registration and was not convicted as an adult.
   (C)   The registrant is a minor.
   (D)   The premises where children commonly gather, as specified herein,
within 1,000 feet of the registrant's permanent or temporary residence, was
opened after the registrant established the permanent or temporary residence
and the registrant has complied with all sex offender registration laws of the
State of Texas.
   (E)   The information on the Database is incorrect and if corrected, this
subchapter would not apply to the person who was erroneously listed on the
Database.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 132.15 REQUEST FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   A person may request a variance from the terms of this subchapter
based upon the grounds set forth herein.
   (B)   A request for a variance from the terms of this subchapter shall be
submitted in writing to the City Secretary and shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The person's name and address;
      (2)   The offense(s) requiring registration on the Database for which the
person was convicted;
      (3)   Date(s) of conviction(s);
      (4)   The specific grounds supporting the person's request for a
variance; and
      (5)   Any other information requested by the city.
   (C)   The Chief of Police may grant a variance request based upon the
grounds set forth in this section. The Chief of Police shall issue a written
ruling on a variance request within 15 business days of receiving a completed
application. The Chief of Police's ruling may be appealed to the City Council
by submitting a written request for appeal to the City Secretary within ten
days from the date of the Chief of Police's ruling or the deadline for issuance
of a ruling, in the event the Chief of Police does not make a ruling within the
required time period. Upon receipt of a written appeal, the City Secretary
shall schedule the appeal for the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting
for which notice can be lawfully posted.
   (D)   In addition to the grounds set forth in herein, the City Council may
grant a variance if it finds that the facts and circumstances demonstrate that
the registrant's temporary or permanent residence within the child safety zone
will not be a danger to children. A variance requested under this division (D)
may be granted by the City Council only. A person who seeks a variance under
this section shall apply for a variance as provided in division (B) above. Upon
receipt of a completed application, the City Secretary shall schedule the
variance request for the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting for
which notice can be lawfully posted. The person requesting the variance shall
be notified of the City Council's decision in writing.
   (E)   A variance granted under this section may include waiving the
application of §
132.12 to the registrant, or reducing the size of the safety zone as it applies
to the registrant.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or persons found in violation of any of the provisions of
§§
132.01 -
132.03 shall be guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day
during which the violation is committed, continued or permitted. Each offense
upon conviction is punishable by a fine not to exceed $2,000.
(Ord. 2011-006, passed 12-20-2011)
   (B)   Any person firm or corporation violating a provision of §§
132.10 -
132.15 shall be guilty of Class C misdemeanor and upon conviction of such
violation shall be punished by a penalty not to exceed $500 for each offense.
Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 8-19-2014)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
         
151.   ZONING
         
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
         
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Regulations
   
150.01   Codes adopted
   
150.02   [Reserved]
   
150.03   Fire limits
Substandard and Dangerous Buildings and Structures
   
150.20   Findings
   
150.21   Adoption of codes and regulations
   
150.22   Definitions
   
150.23   Dangerous buildings a nuisance
   
150.24   Inspections; duties of Code Enforcement Authority
   
150.25   Notice of dangerous building or dangerous condition of property
   
150.26   Sufficiency of notice
   
150.27   Securing dangerous building
   
150.28   Board of Adjustments and Appeals; hearings; orders
   
150.29   Appeals; Council action; judicial review
   
150.30   Enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   International Building Code adopted.
      (1)   That certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office
of the City Secretary, being marked and designated as the “International
Building Code,” 2015 edition, including all Appendix Chapters published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the building code of the city
establishing the minimum regulations governing the conditions and maintenance
of all property, buildings and structures; by providing the standards for
supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions
essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation
and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human
occupancy and use and the demolition of such structures; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such “International
Building Code,” 2015 edition, published by the International Code Council, on
file in the office of the City Secretary are hereby referred to and adopted as
if fully set out in this section.
      (2)   Amendments. The International Building Code is amended as follows:
   Each Reference to "Jurisdiction" or location for insertion of name of
jurisdiction shall mean the City of Trinidad, Texas.
   161.3.1 The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled,
“The Flood Insurance Study for Trinidad, Texas” as adopted and amended from
time to time with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary-
Floodway Maps (FIRM and FBFM) and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this ordinance.
   3409.2 Structures existing prior to November 21, 2006, in which there is
work involving additions, alterations or changes of occupancy shall be made to
conform to the requirements of the section or the provisions of Sections 3402
through 3406.
   (B)   International Residential Code adopted.
      (1)   That certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office
of the City Secretary, being marked and designated as the “International
Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings,” 2015 edition, including
all Appendix Chapters, published by the International Code Council, is hereby
adopted as the residential building code of the city regulating and controlling
the design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation,
alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or
maintenance of one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses in the City;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such “International
Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings,” 2015 edition, published by
the International Code Council, on file in the office of the City Secretary are
hereby referred to and adopted as if fully set out in this article.
      (2)   Amendments. The International Residential Code for One- and Two-
Family Dwellings is amended as follows:
   Each Reference to “Jurisdiction” or location for insertion of name of
jurisdiction shall mean the City of Trinidad, Texas.
Table R301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
Table R301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
Roof Snow Load          5 PSF
Wind Speed              90 MPH
Seismic Design Category See Section 301.2.2, IBC 2003
Weathering              Moderate
Frostline depth         12"
Termite                 Moderate to Heavy
Decay                   Slight to Moderate
Winter Design Temp.     28°F
Flood Hazards           FEMA Ordinance, Current; The current flood plain
                        ordinance adopted by the city
 
   (C)   National Electric Code adopted.
      (1)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal and maintenance
of electric wiring and apparatus, including permits and penalties, that certain
electrical code known as the National Electrical Code of the National Fire
Protection Association, being particularly the 2015 edition of the National
Electrical Code and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are
hereafter deleted, modified or amended, of which no less than one copy has been
and now is filed in the Office of the City Secretary. Such code is hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this section, and
the provisions of such code shall be controlling in the construction,
alteration, maintenance or removal of all electric wiring and apparatus within
the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   Amendments. The National Electrical Code is amended as follows:
   Each Reference to "Jurisdiction" or location for insertion of name of
jurisdiction shall mean the City of Trinidad, Texas.
   (D)   International Plumbing Code adopted.
      (1)    The 2015 edition of the International Plumbing Code, published by
the International Code Council Inc. and all subsequent revisions, standards or
supplements thereto, are hereby adopted to regulate and govern the design,
construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing
systems and provide for the issuance of permits and collection of fees.
      (2)   The use of lead pipes and pipe fittings that contain more than 8%
lead or solders and flux that contains more than 0.2% lead is prohibited in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   For installation and repair of any public water supply; and
         (b)   For any plumbing in a residential or nonresidential facility
providing water for human consumption and connected to a public drinking water
supply system.
         (c)   This requirement will be waived for lead joints that are
necessary for repairs to cast iron pipes.
   (E)   International Property Maintenance Code adopted.
      (1)   That certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office
of the city secretary, being marked and designated as the “International
Property Maintenance Code,” 2015 edition, published by the International Code
Council, is hereby adopted as the property maintenance code of the city for the
control of building and structures as provided; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such “International Property
Maintenance Code,” 2015 edition, published by the International Code Council,
on file in the office of the city secretary are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part of this section as if fully set out in this section.
      (2)   Amendments. The International Property Maintenance Code is amended
as follows:
   Each Reference to “Jurisdiction” or location for insertion of name of
jurisdiction shall mean the City of Trinidad, Texas
   Each Reference to “International Electric Code” shall be revised to refer to
the current version “National Electric Code” adopted by the City.
   Section 103.1   This code shall be enforced by the Code Enforcement
Authority. The Code Enforcement Authority is the person or persons designated
by the City Administrator for purposes of making inspections, sending notices,
and otherwise enforcing the provisions of this Code.
   Section 103.6   See fee schedule attached to this Ordinance
   Section 301.3   Section 301.3, Vacant Structures and Land, shall be amended
to add subsections a through g to read as follows:
            301.3a   All exterior doors and windows shall be kept in sound
working condition and free of broken glass.
            301.3b   All exterior doors shall be equipped with a workable lock
or locking device and shall be kept securely locked during the period of time
said building is vacant.
            301.3c   All windows shall be secured by a latch or lock or other
means so as to prevent easy entry into said structure by children or vagrants
or other unauthorized persons.
            301.3d   All exterior walls and roofs shall be kept in good repair
free of cracks and holes, defective materials, and structural deterioration to
keep such building from becoming a breeding place for rodents, insects, and
roaches.
            301.3e   The exterior of said building or structure and the
premises thereon shall be kept free of any accumulation of paper, hay, moss, or
other combustible or flammable rubbish or waste material that has gathered in
sufficient quantities to constitute a danger to said building or to any other
building or premises in case such waste is ignited.
            301.3f   The exterior of the premises shall be kept free of any
accumulation of trash, garbage, rubbish, or any waste material as to constitute
an unsanitary condition.
            301.3g   Fences shall be maintained in good repair and gates, if
present, shall be locked at all times. Keys or other means of access shall be
provided to the fire department for such premises.
   Section 302.4   Twelve inches (12") shall be inserted in the blanks
provided.
   Section 302.7   The following phrase shall be added to Section 302.7: “All
accessory structures shall be protected from the elements by painting, staining
or other waterproofing or surface treatments.”
   Section 304.14   The following phrase shall be inserted in the blank
provided: “April 1 to November 1, unless functioning AC is provided.”
   Section 307      Section 307 is hereby deleted.
   Sections 602.3    “October 1 through April 1" shall be inserted in the
blanks provided.
   and 602.4
   (F)   Permit required; fees; duration of permits; renewal of permits.
      (1)   Building permit fees.
         (a)   The permit costs for all commercial construction, new and
remodeled, will be based upon the 1998 UBC Table 1A:
Total Valuation Fee
Total Valuation        Fee
$1 to $2,000           $60
$2,001 to $25,000      $69.25 for the first $2,000 plus $14 for each additional
                       $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including $25,000
                       $391.25 for the first $25,000 plus $10.10 for each
$25,001 to $50,000     additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $50,000
                       $643.75 for the first $50,000 plus $7 for each
$50,001 to $100,000    additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $100,000
                       $993.75 for the first $100,000 plus $5.60 for each
$100,001 to $500,000   additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $500,000
                       $3,233.75 for the first $500,000 plus $4.75 for each
$500,001 to $1,000,000 additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $1,000,000
$1,000,001 and up      $5,608.75 for the first $1,000,000 plus $3.15 for each
                       additional $1,000 or fraction thereof.
 
         (b)   The permit costs for new residential construction will be an
$450 flat fee plus $0.10 per square foot (Example: for a 3,000 sq. ft. house,
the fee would be $450 + $300 [3,000 x 0.10 = $300]).
         (c)   The permit costs for residential remodeling will be $350.
         (d)   Swimming pool fees. For construction and installation of in-
ground swimming pools, the fee shall be $300. For above-ground pools, the fee
shall be $60.
         (e)   Demolition fee.  For the demolition of any building or
structures, the fee shall be $60.
         (f)   Penalties. Where work for which a permit is required by this
code is started or proceeded prior to obtaining said permit, the fees herein
specified shall be doubled, but the payment of such double fee shall not
relieve any persons from fully complying with the requirements of this code in
the execution of the work nor from any other penalties prescribed herein.
         (g)   Reinspection fees.  The fee for reinspection may be $75 for each
subsequent inspection, per trade.
         (h)   Irrigation permit fees. The permit fee shall be $75.
         (i)   Electrical service inspection (ESI) fee. For an Electrical
Service Inspection (ESI) the fee shall be $75. This fee is for service
connection. Service providers engaged in the business of providing electrical
service to industrial, commercial or residential customers shall not energize a
customer's premise without first having received the electrical inspector's
certificate of compliance.
      (2)   A person who is performing work or causing to be performed work on
a building or structure will obtain all required permits prior to commencing
work. Additional permit fee schedule is attached to this chapter as division
(H) is hereby adopted. No building or structure will be constructed, installed,
built, or altered unless a permit has first been issued for the work and said
permit has not expired in accordance with division (B) of this section.
      (3)   Expiration of permits. Any permits required by this section shall
expire 120 days after issuance.
      (4)   Renewal of permits. Expired permits may be renewed for a 30-day
period from the date of expiration upon application and payment of the renewal
fee set forth in the permit fee schedule attached to this chapter as division
(H).
   (G)   Certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   Use or occupancy. No building or structure shall be occupied, and
no change in the existing occupancy or classifications of a building or
structure or portion thereof shall be made until the building official has
issued a certificate of occupancy therefore, as provided herein, and such
permit is current and not revoked. Prior to any connection of utilities or
transfer of utilities from one name to another or from one location to another,
the primary occupant must have been issued a certificate of occupancy or a
temporary certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   Certificate issued. After final inspection when it is found that
the building or structure complies with the provisions of this chapter and the
city subdivision ordinance provisions applicable to such structure, lot, parcel
or tract upon which the structure is located, the building official shall issue
a certificate of occupancy or completion which shall contain the following:
         (a)   The use and occupancy for which the certificate is issued;
         (b)   A certification that the building or structure complies with the
provisions of this section;
         (c)   The permit number of the building or structure;
         (d)   The address of the building or structure;
         (e)   The name and address of the owner and occupant;
         (f)   A description of that portion of the building or structure for
which the certificate is issued;
         (g)   A statement that the described portion of the building or
structure complies with the requirements of this ordinance for the group and
division of occupancy and the use for which the proposed occupancy is
classified;
         (h)   The name of the building official.
      (3)   Temporary certificate. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued by the building official for the use of a portion or portions of a
building or structure prior to the completion of the entire building or
structure. The temporary certificate shall state thereon the duration for which
the certificate is issued and where no duration is indicated, the certificate
shall be for no more than 180 days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Connections of service utilities. No person shall make connections
from a utility source which is regulated by the technical codes for which a
permit is required to any building or system until released by the building
official and a certificate of occupancy or completion is issued.
      (5)   Temporary connection. The building official may authorize the
temporary connection of the building or system to the utility source of energy,
fuel or power for the purpose of testing building service systems or for use
under a temporary certificate of occupancy.
      (6)   Authority to disconnect utilities. The building official shall have
the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building,
structure or system regulated by the technical codes, in case of emergency
where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to the life or property. The
building official shall notify the serving utility, and whenever possible the
owner and occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision
to disconnect, if possible, prior to taking such action. If not notified prior
to disconnecting, the owner or occupant of the building, structure or service
system shall be notified in writing, as soon as practical thereafter.
      (7)   Authority to disconnect utilities for failure to obtain a
certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate of occupancy. The building
official shall have authority to authorize disconnection of utility services to
any building, structure or system regulated by the technical codes for which a
certificate of occupation has been revoked or is required and has never been
issued to the current occupant after written notice and an opportunity to
correct as provided herein. Before utilities may be disconnected, the building
official shall send a notice specifying that the owner or occupant must bring
the property into compliance or the utilities will be disconnected and
indicating that the owner or occupant may appeal to the Board of Adjustments
within ten days of the date of the letter.
   (H)   Permit fee schedule.
Certificate of occupancy                             $75
New residential dwelling                             see division (E)
Residential remodel                                  see division (E)
Swimming pool permit                                 see division (E)
Electrical permit                                    $75
Plumbing permit                                      $75
Yard irrigation (sprinkler system) permit            $75
Electric service change                              $75
Sewer relay                                          $75
Air conditioning HVAC system                         $75
Fence permit                                         $60
Small storage building                               $25
Room addition (each inspection over two inspections) $200 + $75
Commercial building permit                           see division (B)
Commercial electric permit                           $100
Commercial mechanical permit                         $100
Commercial plumbing permit                           $100
Permit renewal fee                                   $25
 
   (I)   International Fire Code.
      (1)   That certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office
of the city secretary, being marked and designated as the International Fire
Code, 2015 edition, published by the International Code Council, is hereby
adopted as the fire code of the city for regulating and governing the
safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from
the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices,
and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings
and premises in the city and providing for the issuance of permits for
hazardous uses and operations; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms of such International Fire Code, 2015 edition, published
by the International Code Council, on file in the office of the city secretary
are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part of this section as if fully set
out in this article.
      (2)   Amendments. The International Fire Code is amended as follows:
   Each reference to “jurisdiction” or location for insertion of name of
jurisdiction shall mean the City of Trinidad, Texas.
   Section 109.3. Offenses under this code, including penalties and notice,
shall be in compliance with Section 4 herein.
   Section 111.4. Any person who shall continue any work in or about the
structure after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as
that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition,
shall be liable to a fine of not less than $200.00 dollars or more than
$2,000.00 dollars.
      (3)   Limits. The limits referred to in certain sections of the fire code
are hereby established as follows:
   Section 3204.3.1.1. The limits referred to in Section 3204.3.1.1. of the
International Fire Code in which the storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in
stationary containers is restricted, are established as follows: No one shall
store in stationary containers any flammable cryogenic fluids, without a
permit. Permits will be issued based upon need, quantity and hazards [which]
storage presents to occupants and surrounding property.
   Section 3404.2.9.5.1. The limits referred to in Section 3404.2.9.5.1. of the
International Fire Code in which the storage of Class I and II liquids in
aboveground tanks outside of buildings is restricted, are established as
follows: No one may store more than sixty (60) gallons of Class I or II liquids
in outside aboveground tanks within the city, without a permit. Permits will be
issued based upon need, quantity and hazards which storage presents to
occupants and surrounding property.
   Section 3406.2.4.4. The limits referred to in Section 3406.2.4.4 of the
International Fire Code in which the storage of Class I and Class II liquids in
aboveground tanks is restricted, are established as follows: No one may store
Class I and II liquids in aboveground tanks within the city, without a permit.
Permits will be issued based upon need, quantity and hazards which storage
presents to occupants and surrounding property.
   Section 3804.2. The limits referred to in Section 3804.2 of the
International Fire Code, in which storage of liquefied petroleum gas is
restricted for the protection of heavily populated or congested areas, are
established as follows: No one shall store more than one hundred (100) pounds
of liquefied petroleum gases within the city, without a permit. Permits will be
issued based upon need, quantity and hazards which storage presents to
occupants and surrounding property.
      (4)   Allowable outdoor burning shall be subject to the 2015
International Fire Code including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Begin burning no earlier than one hour after sunrise, and end
the same day, no later than one hour before sunset.
         (b)   Burning must be attended until extinguished.
         (c)   Residual fires or smoldering embers must be extinguished.
         (d)   Remaining debris from burning must be disposed of.
         (e)   Burning must not cause a traffic hazard.
         (f)   Burning shall not contain any prohibited materials, including
but not limited to:
            1.   Domestic waste;
            2.   Bulk waste;
            3.   Construction or demolition debris that contains prohibited
materials metal wiring, shingles or other asphaltic or petroleum based
products;
            4.   Chemical waste;
            5.   Potentially explosive materials such as batteries and aerosol
cans;
            6.   Asphalt materials such as shingles;
            7.   Rubber products (natural or synthetic such as tires,
electrical wiring insulation );
            8.   Fiberglass products;
            9.   Glass products or containers;
            10.   Metal cans or containers;
            11.   Plastics;
            12.   Oil products such as heavy oil, machine oil, motor oil,
transmission fluids, etc.; and
            13.   Any Petroleum based products not specifically identified
above.
      (5)   Location. The location for open burning shall not be less than 50
feet from any structure, and provisions shall be made to prevent the fire from
spreading to within 50 feet of any structure. Exceptions:
         (a)   Fires in approved containers that are not less than 15 feet from
a structure.
         (b)   The minimum required distance from a structure shall be 25 feet
where the pile size is three feet or less in diameter and two feet or less in
height.
(Ord. 2006-014, passed 11-29-2006; Ord. 2009-003, passed 1-20-2009; Ord. 2009-
012, passed 9-15-2009; Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-16-2012; Ord. 2013-003, passed
6-18-2013; Ord. 2017-001, passed 2-2-2017; Ord. 2018-012, passed 11-27-2018;
Ord. 2018-013, passed 11-27-2018) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 [RESERVED]
§ 150.03 FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Fire limits. The following shall be and are hereby declared to be the
fire limits of the city:
      Beginning at the middle of the intersection of Park Street and First
Street; thence one block in an easterly direction, along the middle of First
Street, to the middle of the intersection of First Street and Melear Street;
thence one block in a southerly direction along the middle of Melear Street, to
the middle of the intersection of Front Street and Melear Street; thence in a
westerly direction, along the middle of Front Street to a point in the middle
of Front Street, which the point is 200 feet westerly from the middle of the
intersection of Front Street and Oak Street; thence in a northerly direction,
in a straight line, to a point in middle of First Street, which the point is
200 feet westerly from the m of the intersection of First Street and Oak
Street; thence in an easterly direction along the middle of First Street to the
place of beginning.
   (B)   Permits and inspections.
      (1)   No wall, structure, building or part thereof, shall hereafter be
built, enlarged or altered, until a plan of the proposed work, together with a
statement of materials to be used, shall have been submitted to the Building
Inspector, who shall, if in accordance with the provisions herein contained,
issue a written permit in triplicate for the proposed work. Permits shall be
kept on file with the City Clerk.
      (2)   Structures hereafter erected without a permit, or not in conformity
with this section, shall be removed.
      (3)   No building shall be moved from without to within the fire limits,
nor from one location to another within the fire limits, until a permit shall
have been issued therefor. No permit shall be issued, unless the construction
is in accordance with this section.
      (4)   The Building Inspector shall inspect, as often as practical,
construction in progress, to see that all provisions of this section are being
complied with.
      (5)   All plans and specifications submitted to the Building Inspector
shall comply with all city ordinances and with state law.
   (C)   Construction required within the fire limits.
      (1)   No building or structure of wooden, ironclad (whether on wood or
metal supports), stucco or veneer type construction, or any building whose
walls contain wood supports, shall be permitted within the fire limits, except
as indicated in division (D) below. No building shall hereafter be built,
enlarged or altered, except in accordance with this section.
      (2)   The thickness of walls shall be not less than as given below.
         (a)   Brick walls shall be not less than 12 inches thick, except that
one-story buildings with floor areas of 750 square walls eight inches thick, 11
feet or less may have reinforced concrete walls may be three-fourth of the
thickness of brick walls, but in no case less than eight inches.
         (b)   Hollow building tile may be used as filler walls; provided, the
walls are supported or reinforced concrete beams and footings, and by adequate
reinforced concrete or brick pillars or columns spaced not more than 16 feet
apart. Walls shall be not less than 12 inches thick. Small one-story buildings
of less than 500 square feet floor area may have walls of eight-inch hollow
tile.
         (c)   Solid stone walls shall be four inches thicker than brick walls
for like construction.
         (d)   All exterior walls, party walls and division tire walls shall
have parapets extending at least 18 inches above the roof, and the parapets
shall be at least 12 inches thick, except where eight-inch walls are permitted
as above, in which case parapets may be eight inches thick.
   (D)   Frame building in fire limits. The following frame structures are
permissible in the fire limits:
      (1)   Temporary one-story frame buildings for the rise of builders; and
      (2)   Wooden fences not over eight feet high, without roof or cover.
   (E)   Roofs.
      (1)   All buildings or structures hereafter constructed in the fire
limits shall have incombustible roof coverings.
      (2)   No roofing on an existing roof shall be renewed or repaired to a
greater extent than 10% of the roof surface, except in conformity with this
section; and in no instance shall more than one permit be issued each existing
building in any one year.
   (F)   Repairs and additions.
      (1)   An existing building within the fire limits which may hereafter be
damaged by fire, decay or otherwise, to an amount greater than 50% of its
present value, exclusive of the foundation, shall not be repaired or rebuilt,
but shall be removed.
      (2)   Extensions, remodeling or additions to existing buildings shall not
be considered as repairs and shall not be permitted except when conforming with
division (C) above.
   (G)   Arbitration. Whenever an application for permit to repair any existing
building already located within the fire limits is made by any person or firm,
and the City Council and the applicant disagree on the extent of repairs to be
made, and a permit is denied by the Building Inspector, the City Council shall
appoint a competent and disinterested person, and the applicant shall appoint a
competent and disinterested person, which two persons so appointed shall select
a third member, and these three persons shall appraise the building, examine
the plan of the proposed work and the statement of materials and labor to be
used in the repairing or rebuilding of the building, and make a signed written
report of their findings to the City Council. If the report reflects clearly
that the rebuilding or repairing would be a violation of this section, then the
application for permit shall be denied by the City Council, and if the report
reflects that the person seeking the permit has complied with this section, and
the requested rebuilding or repairing is not in violation of this section, then
the City Council shall issue a permit for the proposed rebuilding or repairing.
   (H)   Fees. The building inspector shall be entitled to a fee of $  for each
inspection.
(Ord. 57-3, passed 10-10-1957) Penalty, see §
150.99
SUBSTANDARD AND DANGEROUS BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
§ 150.20 FINDINGS.
   The recitals to the ordinance codified in this subchapter are hereby found
to be true and correct and are hereby adopted by the City Council and made a
part hereof for all purposes as findings of fact. The City Council hereby
further finds and determines that the rules, regulations, terms, conditions,
provisions and requirements of this subchapter are reasonable and necessary to
protect the public health, safety and quality of life.
(Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 150.21 ADOPTION OF CODES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Adoption of International Property Maintenance Code and amendments.
      (1)   That certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office
of the City Secretary, being marked and designated as the “International
Property Maintenance Code,” 2015 edition, including all Appendix Ordinances,
published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the
building code of the city establishing the minimum regulations governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition of such
structures in connection with the city’s dangerous building regulations and
Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code Ch. 214; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms of such “International Property Maintenance Code,” 2015
edition, published by the International Code Council, Inc., on file in the
office of the City Secretary are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part of
this section as if fully set out in this chapter.
      (2)   The 2015 International Property Maintenance Code is further amended
as follows:
         Each reference to “Board of Adjustments and Appeals” is hereby
amended, to the extent necessary, to provide that the composition of the Board
of Adjustments and Appeals of the City of Trinidad shall be the City Council
for the City of Trinidad.
         Each reference to the qualification requirements for members of the
“Board of Adjustments and Appeals” is hereby repealed.
         Section 111.1 is amended to delete any reference or requirement that
requires a written application for appeal to be filed within 20 days after the
decision of a code official.
         Section 111.3 is deleted.
      (3)   The following numbered section is deleted and replaced in full with
the text indicated:
         Section 112.4 Failure to Comply. Any person who violates a provision
of this code, or fails to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements
thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and subject to a fine of between
$1.00 and $2,000.00. Each day a violation occurs constitutes a separate
offense.
   (B)   Chapter 214 adopted. Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code Ch. 214 is hereby adopted by
the city and made a part of this subchapter. In the event of any conflict or
inconsistency between the terms and provisions of this subchapter and Chapter
214, the terms and provisions of Chapter 214 shall govern and control.
   (C)   Substandard building regulations adopted. The City Council hereby
adopts the “Substandard Building Regulations” as set forth below.
(Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 150.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any building or structure built for the support, shelter, use or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The person designated by the city for purposes
of making inspections, sending notices, and otherwise enforcing the provisions
of this subchapter.
   COUNTY. The County of Henderson, Texas.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING, UNSAFE BUILDING, and SUBSTANDARD BUILDING. Any building
located within the incorporated limits of the city that is:
      (1)   In such a state or condition of repair or disrepair that all or any
of the following conditions exist:
         (a)   Walls or other vertical structural members list, lean, or
buckle;
         (b)   Damage or deterioration exists to the extent the building cannot
be used or occupied without risk of injury, or to the extent the building poses
a danger to persons on the property or adjacent property;
         (c)   Loads on floors or roofs are improperly distributed or the
floors or roofs are of insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purposes used;
         (d)   Damage by fire, wind, or other cause has rendered the building
or structure dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general health and
welfare of the occupants or the people of the city;
         (e)   The building or structure is so dilapidated, substandard,
decayed, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise lacking in the amenities essential to
decent living or use that the same is unfit for human habitation or occupancy,
or is likely to cause sickness, disease or injury or otherwise to constitute a
detriment to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of those persons
assembled, working, or living therein or is a hazard to the public health,
safety and welfare;
         (f)   Light, air, and sanitation facilities are inadequate to protect
the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of persons who assemble, work,
or live therein;
         (g)   Stairways, fire escapes, and other facilities of egress in case
of fire or panic are inadequate;
         (h)   Parts or appendages of the building or structure are so attached
that they are likely to fall and injure persons or property;
         (i)   The floors, exterior walls, or roof fail to protect occupants of
the building or structure from weather, injury, and the danger of collapse due
to the presence of holes, cracks, and loose, rotten, warped, or protruding
boards or other similar damage in floors, exterior walls or the roof; or
         (j)   Conditions of the structure or building constitute a material
violation of provisions of the city’s Building Codes, Plumbing Code, Fire
Prevention Code, or Electrical Code (the “Codes”). For the purposes of this
section, a “material” violation is a violation of any provision or provision of
the Codes that creates a significant risk of personal injury, death, or
property damage;
      (2)   Dilapidated, substandard, or unfit for human habitation and a
hazard to the public health, safety, and welfare of the city’s residents;
      (3)   Regardless of its structural condition, unoccupied by its owners,
lessees, or other invitees and is unsecured from unauthorized entry to the
extent that it could be entered or used by vagrants or other uninvited persons
as a place of harborage or could be entered or used by children; or
      (4)   Boarded up, fenced or otherwise secured in any manner if:
         (a)   The building constitutes a danger to the public even though
secured from entry; or
         (b)   The means used to secure the building are inadequate to prevent
unauthorized entry or use of the building to the extent it could be entered or
used by vagrants or other uninvited persons as a place of harborage or could be
entered or used by children;
         (c)   Defined as a dangerous or unsafe building by the 2015
International Property Maintenance Code, published by the International Code
Council, Inc.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTIES. The owner, and any mortgagee or lienholder identified
by the owner or by search of the public tax records and real property records
of the county, and any occupant or person residing within, or in custody of,
the building or structure.
   STRUCTURE. That which is constructed.
(Ord. 95-03, passed 3-13-1995; Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 150.23 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit the
existence of any dangerous building in the city; and it shall be unlawful for
any person to permit same to remain in such condition.
   (B)   All dangerous buildings, unsafe buildings, and substandard buildings
are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition, or removal in accordance with the procedures
provided in this subchapter.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Authority shall enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 95-03, passed 3-13-1995; Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-16-2012) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24 INSPECTIONS; DUTIES OF CODE ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Authority shall inspect, or cause to be
inspected, every building, or portion thereof, reported to be dangerous. If
such building, or any portion thereof, is determined to be dangerous, the Code
Enforcement Authority shall give the responsible parties notice in accordance
with the requirements set forth in §
150.25 of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Authority shall also:
      (1)   Inspect or cause to be inspected, when necessary, any building or
structure within the incorporated limits of the city, including public
buildings, schools, halls, churches, theaters, hotels, tenements, or
apartments, multifamily residences, single-family residences, garages,
warehouses, and other commercial and industrial structures of any nature
whatsoever for the purpose of determining whether any conditions exist which
render such places a “dangerous building” as defined herein.
      (2)   Inspect any building, wall or structure about which complaints have
been filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall or structure is or
may be existing in violation of this subchapter.
      (3)   Report to the Board of Adjustments and Appeals any non-compliance
with the minimum standards set forth in this subchapter. The City Code
Enforcement Authority shall obtain from the secretary of the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals a hearing date for a public hearing by the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals on any building believed to be a dangerous building and
shall provide the secretary of the Board of Adjustments and Appeals with copies
of the written notice to persons with interests in the property as required
under §§
150.23 -
150.27.
      (4)   Appear at all hearings conducted by the Board of Adjustments and
Appeals and testify as to the conditions of dangerous buildings within the
city.
      (5)   Place a notice on all dangerous buildings reading as follows: “This
building has been found to be a dangerous building by the City of Trinidad Code
Enforcement Authority. This notice is to remain on this building until it is
repaired, vacated, or demolished in accordance with the notice which has been
given to the owner(s), occupant(s) and person(s) with interests in the property
as shown by the records of the City Secretary and the Tax Appraisal District.
It is unlawful to remove this notice until such notice is complied with.”
      (6)   Request the Mayor, City Administrator, or City Manager, as
applicable, to have the Building Inspector, or an appropriate engineer or
building inspector, provide additional inspections, reports and act as an
expert witness at hearings for buildings that appear marginally dangerous.
      (7)   Make a diligent effort to determine the identity and address of
each owner, lienholder, or mortgagee. The Code Enforcement Authority satisfies
the requirements of this division to make a diligent effort, to use best
efforts, or to make a reasonable effort to determine the identity and address
of an owner, a lienholder, or a mortgagee if the Code Enforcement Authority
searches the following records:
         (a)   County real property records of the county in which the building
is located;
         (b)   Appraisal district records of the appraisal district in which
the building is located;
         (c)   Records of the Secretary of State;
         (d)   Assumed name records of the county in which the building is
located;
         (e)   Tax records of the city; and
         (f)   Utility records of the city.
      (8)   Perform the other requirements with respect to notification of
public hearings as are set forth more specifically in this subchapter.
(Ord. 95-03, passed 3-13-1995; Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 150.25 NOTICE OF DANGEROUS BUILDING OR DANGEROUS CONDITION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Should the Code Enforcement Authority determine that a building within
the city is a dangerous building, he or she shall, in the manner provided for
in §§
150.23 -
150.27, attempt to identify all the responsible parties that have an interest
in the building, and give written notification of the dangerous building or
condition by certified mail return receipt requested and regular U.S. mail to
each of the identified responsible parties that are identified by the search
made pursuant to division (A)(4) below. Such notice shall include:
      (1)   The address or legal description of the property where the building
or structure deemed unsafe is located;
      (2)   A statement of the specific conditions, violations, or defects
which make the building or structure a dangerous building;
      (3)   Notice of the date and time of a public hearing before the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals to determine whether the building complies with the
standards set out in this subchapter; and
      (4)   A statement that the owner, lienholder, mortgagee, or persons with
a legal interest in the building will be required to submit at the hearing
proof of the scope of any work that may be required to comply with the
subchapter and the amount of time it will take to reasonably perform the work.
   (B)   The notice required under this section must be either personally
delivered or mailed on or before the tenth day before the date of the hearing
unless the Code Enforcement Authority determines that the property, building,
or structure is in immediate need to be secured, repaired, or abated and the
property, building, or structure presents an immediate threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of the public. For purposes of providing the minimum notice
under this division, the notice of dangerous building or dangerous condition of
property shall be deemed served upon the responsible parties on the date the
notice is deposited with the U.S. Postal Service.
   (C)   Such notice shall be served upon the responsible parties both by
certified mail and regular U.S. mail as required in this section.
(Ord. 95-03, passed 3-13-1995; Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 150.26 SUFFICIENCY OF NOTICE.
   (A)   A notice of dangerous building or dangerous condition of property as
required under this subchapter shall include notice of the date and time of a
public hearing and shall be deemed properly served upon the responsible parties
if a copy thereof is:
      (1)   Served upon him or her personally; or
      (2)   Sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, and
regular U.S. mail to the last known address of such person as shown on the
records of the city; or
      (3)   Posted in a conspicuous place in or about the building affected by
the notice.
   (B)   When the city mails a notice in accordance with this section to a
property owner, lienholder, or mortgagee, and the U.S. Postal Service returns
the notice “refused” or “unclaimed,” the validity of the notice is not
affected, and the notice is considered delivered.
   (C)   The city shall file notice of the hearing in the public records of
real property of Henderson County.
(Ord. 95-03, passed 3-13-1995; Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 150.27 SECURING DANGEROUS BUILDING.
   (A)   Should the Code Enforcement Authority determine that any building or
structure within the incorporated limits of the city is a dangerous building,
or is unoccupied and unsecured, or is occupied only by persons who do not have
a right of possession of the building, he or she shall cause the building to be
secured.
   (B)   Before the 11th day after the date the building is secured, the
municipality shall give notice to the owner by:
      (1)   Personally serving the owner with written notice; or
      (2)   Depositing the notice in the U.S. mail addressed to the owner at
the owner’s post office address; or
      (3)   Publishing the notice at least twice within a ten-day period in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the building is located
if personal service cannot be obtained and the owner’s post office address is
unknown; or
      (4)   Posting the notice on or near the front door of the building if
personal service cannot be obtained and the owner’s post office address is
unknown.
   (C)   The notice must contain:
      (1)   Identification, which is not required to be a legal description, of
the building and the property on which it is located;
      (2)   A description of the violation of the city standards that is
present at the building;
      (3)   A statement that the city will secure or has secured, as the case
may be, the building; and
      (4)   An explanation of the owner’s entitlement to request a hearing
about any matter relating to the municipality’s securing of the building.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall conduct a hearing at which
any of the responsible parties may testify and present witnesses and written
information about any matter relating to the city’s securing of the building,
if, within 30 days after the date the Code Enforcement Authority secures or
causes to be secured the building, a responsible party files a written request
for the hearing. The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall conduct the hearing
within 20 days after the date the request is filed with the city.
   (E)   The city shall impose a lien against the land on which the building
stands, unless it is a homestead, to secure the payment of the cost of securing
the building. Promptly after the imposition of the lien, the city shall file
for record, in recordable form in the official public records of the county, a
written notice of the imposition of the lien. The notice shall contain a legal
description of the land.
(Ord. 95-03, passed 3-13-1995; Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 150.28 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS; HEARINGS; ORDERS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall: schedule and conduct a
hearing and hear testimony from the Code Enforcement Authority, the owner and
other persons having an interest in the dangerous building, and any person
desiring to present factual evidence relevant to the dangerous building. Such
testimony shall relate to the determination of the question of whether the
building or structure in question is a dangerous building and the scope of any
work that may be required to comply with this subchapter and the amount of time
it will take to reasonably perform the work. The owner or a person having an
interest in the dangerous building shall have the burden of proof to
demonstrate the scope of any work that may be required to comply with this
subchapter and the time it will take to reasonably perform the work.
   (B)   Upon conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Adjustments and Appeals
shall determine by majority vote whether the building or structure in question
is a dangerous building. Upon a determination that the building or structure in
question constitutes a dangerous building, the Board of Adjustments and Appeals
shall issue a written order:
      (1)   Containing an identification of the building and the property on
which it is located;
      (2)   Making written findings of the minimum standards violations that
are present at the building;
      (3)   Requiring the owner and persons having an interest in the building
to secure, repair, vacate, and/or demolish the building within 30 days from the
issuance of such order, unless the owner or a person with an interest in the
building establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be
performed within 30 days, in which instance the Board of Adjustments and
Appeals shall specify a reasonable time for the completion of the work; and
further provided that the Board of Adjustments and Appeals may require the
owner and occupants to vacate the building within a shorter period of time if
the building has fallen, is at risk of immediate collapse, or is in such a
condition that life is endangered by further occupation of the building; and
      (4)   Containing a statement that the city will vacate, secure, remove or
demolish the dangerous building and relocate the occupants of the building if
the ordered action is not taken within the time specified by the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals and it is found and determined by the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals in its order that there is an immediate clear and
present danger to other property or the public.
   (C)   If repair or demolition is ordered, the Board of Adjustments and
Appeals shall send a copy of the order by certified mail to the owner and all
persons having an interest in the property, including all identifiable
mortgagees and lienholders within a reasonable period of time after the
hearing. Within ten days after the date that the order is issued, the city
shall:
      (1)   File a copy of the order in the office of the municipal secretary
or clerk; and
      (2)   Publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality
in which the building is located a notice containing:
         (a)   The street address or legal description of the property;
         (b)   The date of the hearing;
         (c)   A brief statement indicating the results of the order (may be a
copy of the order); and
         (d)   If not provided in the notice, instructions stating where a
complete copy of the order may be obtained.
   (D)   If repair or demolition is ordered and notice of public hearing was
not filed in the official public records of real property of the county, the
city may file and record a copy of the order in such records of the county.
   (E)   If the Board of Adjustments and Appeals allows the owner or a person
with an interest in the dangerous building more than the 30 days to repair,
remove, or demolish the building, the Board of Adjustments and Appeals in its
written order shall establish specific time schedules for the commencement and
performance of the work and shall require the owner or person to secure the
property in a reasonable manner from unauthorized entry while the work is being
performed. The securing of the property shall be in a manner found to be
acceptable by the city’s Code Enforcement Authority. Any required permits or
approvals shall be obtained prior to commencing the repair, removal, or
demolition of the building.
   (F)   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals may not allow the owner or person
with an interest in the dangerous building more than 90 days to repair, remove,
or demolish the building or fully perform all work required to comply with the
written order unless the owner or person:
      (1)   Submits a detailed plan and time schedule for the work at the
hearing; and
      (2)   Establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be
completed within 90 days because of the scope and complexity of the work.
   (G)   If the Board of Adjustments and Appeals allows the owner or person
with an interest in the dangerous building more than 90 days to complete any
part of the work required to repair, remove, or demolish the building, the
Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall require the owner or person to regularly
submit progress reports to Board of Adjustments and Appeals to demonstrate that
the owner or person has complied with the time schedules established for
commencement and performance of the work. The written order may require that
the owner or person with an interest in the building appear before the city’s
Code Enforcement Authority to demonstrate compliance with the time schedules.
   (H)   In the event the owner or a person with an interest in a dangerous
building fails to comply with the order within the time specified therein, the
city may cause any occupants of the dangerous building to be relocated, and may
cause the dangerous building to be secured, removed, or demolished at the
city’s expense. The city may assess the expenses on, and the city has a lien
against, unless it is a homestead as protected by the Texas Constitution, the
property on which the dangerous building was located. The lien is extinguished
if the property owner or a person having an interest in the building reimburses
the city for the expenses. The lien arises and attaches to the property at the
time the notice of the lien is recorded and indexed in the office of the County
Clerk in the county in which the property is located. The notice of lien must
contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner of the dangerous building if that
information can be determined by a diligent effort;
      (2)   A legal description of the real property on which the building was
located;
      (3)   The amount of expenses incurred by the city; and
      (4)   The balance due.
   (I)   Such lien is a privileged lien subordinate only to tax liens and all
previously recorded bona fide mortgage liens attached to the real property.
   (J)   In addition to the authority set forth in division (H) above, after
the expiration of the time allotted in the order for the repair, removal, or
demolition of a dangerous building, the city may repair the building at its
expense and assess the expenses on the land on which the building stands or to
which it is attached. The repairs contemplated by this section may only be
accomplished to the extent necessary to bring the building into compliance with
the minimum standards established by city ordinance, and to the extent such
repairs do not exceed minimum housing standards. This section shall be
applicable only to residential buildings with ten or fewer dwelling units. The
city shall follow the procedures set forth in division (H) above for filing a
lien on the property on which the building is located.
(Ord. 95-03, passed 3-13-1995; Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 150.29 APPEALS; COUNCIL ACTION; JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Appeal of the Board of Adjustments and Appeals order.
      (1)   Any responsible party affected by a Board of Adjustments and
Appeals order who desires to appeal the decision of the Board of Adjustments
and Appeals or the findings set forth in the Board of Adjustments and Appeals
order, must appeal the order of the Board of Adjustments and Appeals to City
Council in accordance with the following procedures:
         (a)   The responsible party shall file a written notice of appeal with
the Board of Appeals and the Code Enforcement Authority within 30 calendar days
of receiving the Board of Adjustments and Appeals order.
         (b)   The notice of appeal must set forth and describe the factual and
legal grounds why the Board of Adjustment and Appeals decision is in error,
wrong, or incorrect.
         (c)   The responsible party must request a public hearing before the
City Council.
         (d)   The responsible party has the burden of proof of demonstrating
at a public hearing before City Council that the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals order is in error, wrong, or incorrect.
         (e)   City Council shall only consider evidence that was available to
the Board of Adjustments and Appeals at the time of the hearing before the
Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
         (f)   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals order shall be deemed final
and non-appealable if a responsible party fails to timely submit an appeal in
accordance with this section.
      (2)   In conducting its review of a Board of Adjustments and Appeals
order, the City Council shall by ordinance either affirm the order or modify or
reverse the order.
      (3)   If the City Council affirms the Board of Adjustments and Appeals
order, the findings and decision set forth in the Board of Adjustments and
Appeals order shall be deemed final and the City Council’s ordinance shall
include the following:
         (a)   Findings of fact as to the specific conditions which make the
building or structure a dangerous building;
         (b)   If City Council orders the demolition of the dangerous building,
the ordinance ordering the demolition of the dangerous building must include:
            1.   A finding that there is an immediate clear and present danger
to other property or the public; and
            2.   The ordinance must specify that the demolition of the
dangerous building cannot occur earlier than 35 calendar days from the date of
the City Council’s order affirming the Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
      (4)   If the City Council reverses the Board of Adjustment and Appeals
order, the City Council shall set forth in factual findings in the ordinance
the grounds and reasons for the reversal.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals order shall be deemed final:
         (a)   In the absence of a timely filed appeal in accordance with the
appeal procedures established in this section; or
         (b)   Due to a failure of an appealing party to comply with the appeal
procedures set forth in this section.
   (B)   City Council action. If the responsible parties that have an interest
in a building or structure that is ordered to be repaired, rehabilitated,
demolished, or removed, fail to timely comply with such order, the City Council
may:
      (1)   Authorize the Code Enforcement Authority to obtain the repair and/
or securing of the building or structure, and to file a lien against such
property for the cost and expense of such work;
      (2)   By ordinance, assess a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per day
against the owners and persons having an interest in the property; and
      (3)   Authorize and take such other action as contemplated by this
subchapter, or Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code Ch. 214, as is necessary or advisable in
the judgment of the City Council to protect the public health, safety or
welfare.
   (C)   Judicial review.
      (1)   Any owner, lienholder, or mortgagee of record of properly jointly
or severally aggrieved by an order of a City Council issued under this
subchapter and Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code § 214.001 may file in district court a
verified petition setting forth that the decision is illegal, in whole or in
part, and specifying the grounds of the illegality. The petition must be filed
by an owner, lienholder, or mortgagee within 30 calendar days after the
respective dates a copy of the final decision of the municipality is personally
delivered to them, mailed to them by first class mail with certified return
receipt requested, or delivered to them by the U.S. Postal Service using
signature confirmation service, or such decision shall become final as to each
of them upon the expiration of each such 30 calendar day period.
      (2)   On the filing of the petition, the court may issue a writ of
certiorari directed to the municipality to review the order of the municipality
and shall prescribe in the writ the time within which a return on the writ must
be made, which must be longer than ten days, and served on the relator or the
relator’s attorney.
      (3)   The city may not be required to return the original papers acted on
by it, but it is sufficient for the municipality to return certified or sworn
copies of the papers or of parts of the papers as may be called for by the
writ.
      (4)   The return must concisely set forth other facts as may be pertinent
and material to show the grounds of the decision appealed from and shall be
verified.
      (5)   The issuance of the writ does not stay proceedings on the decision
appealed from.
      (6)   Appeal in the district court shall be limited to a hearing under
the substantial evidence rule. The court may reverse or affirm, in whole or in
part, or may modify the decision brought up for review.
      (7)   Costs may not be allowed against the city.
      (8)   If the decision of the municipality is affirmed or not
substantially reversed but only modified, the district court shall allow to the
city all attorney’s fees and other costs and expenses incurred by it and shall
enter a judgment for those items, which may be entered against the property
owners, lienholders, or mortgagees as well as all persons subject to the
proceedings before the city.
(Ord. 95-03, passed 3-13-1995; Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 150.30 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Assessment of expenses and penalties.
      (1)   If the time allotted for the repair, removal or demolition of a
building under this subchapter has expired, then the City Council may, in
addition to the authority granted under Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code Ch. 214, and the
foregoing sections of this subchapter:
         (a)   Order the repair of the building at the city’s expense and
assess the expenses on the land on which the building stands or to which it is
attached; or
         (b)   Assess a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per day against the
responsible party for failure to repair, remove, or demolish the building.
         (c)   Authorize the city’s Code Enforcement Authority to invite at
least two or more building contractors to make estimates pertaining to the
needed repair, removal or demolition of a building. The Code Enforcement
Authority shall cause to be made an assessment of expenses, and may also
recommend civil penalties, based on such estimates. The Code Enforcement
Authority shall endeavor to minimize the expenses of any building repairs,
removal or demolitions order pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   The city shall impose a lien against the land on which the building
stands or stood, unless it is a homestead as protected by the Texas
Constitution, to secure the payment of the repair, removal, or demolition
expenses or the civil penalty. Promptly after the imposition of the lien, the
city shall file for record, in recordable form in the office of the County
Clerk, a written notice of the imposition of the lien. The notice shall contain
a legal description of the land.
      (3)   The city’s lien to secure the payment of a civil penalty or the
costs of repairs, removal, or demolition is inferior to any previously recorded
bona fide mortgage lien attached to the real property to which the city’s lien
attaches if the mortgage lien was filed for record in the office of the County
Clerk before the date the civil penalty is assessed or the repair, removal, or
demolition is begun by the city. The city’s lien is superior to all other
previously recorded judgment liens.
      (4)   Any civil penalty or other assessment imposed under this section
accrues interest at the rate of 10% a year from the date of the assessment
until paid in full. The city may further file with the district clerk a copy of
an ordinance assessing a civil penalty pursuant to this subchapter.
      (5)   In any judicial proceeding regarding enforcement of the city’s
rights under this section, the prevailing party is entitled to recover
reasonable attorney’s fees as otherwise provided by statute.
      (6)   A lien acquired under this section by the city for repair expenses
may not be foreclosed if the property on which the repairs were made is
occupied as a residential homestead by a person 65 years of age or older.
   (B)   Violations.
      (1)   The owner of any dangerous building who shall fail to comply with
any notice or order to repair, secure, vacate or demolish said building or
structure, such notice or order given by the authority of the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals or the City Council, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   An occupant or lessee in possession of any dangerous building who
fails to comply with any notice or order to vacate such building and fails to
repair such building in accordance with an order given by the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   Any person removing the notice of a secured building as provided
for in §
150.27(B)(4), and or a notice of dangerous building as provided in §
150.26(A)(3) of this subchapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Enforcement of regulations.
      (1)   No building permit, certificate of occupancy, plumbing permit,
electrical permit, or utility tap shall be issued by the city for or with
respect to any lot, tract or parcel of land within the city limits, after the
effective date of this subchapter, except in compliance with all then
applicable requirements of this subchapter and the above codes.
      (2)   Whenever any building work is being done contrary to the provisions
of this subchapter, another controlling ordinance or statute governing the
building, the Building Official or Code Enforcement Officer designated by the
City Manager may order the work stopped by notice verbally or in writing served
on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done and the
city shall post a stop work order on the property adjacent to the posted
building permit, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until
authorized by the Building Official or Code Enforcement Officer to proceed with
the work. If no permit has been issued, all work shall stop until a permit has
been properly issued and all errors corrected to the satisfaction of the
Building Official or Code Enforcement Officer. The Building Official or Code
Enforcement Officer may also issue a work correction order, which shall be
served upon any persons who are working on a certain aspect of the construction
project. The work on other aspects of the construction not in violation of the
city’s ordinances may proceed, but work shall cease as to that aspect in
violation of the city’s ordinances.
      (3)   This subchapter and any code or provision adopted by this
subchapter may be further enforced by injunction and other judicial
proceedings, either at law or in equity; and, in lieu of or in addition to any
other authorized enforcement or action taken, any person who violates any term
or provision of this subchapter, with respect to any land, building or
development within the city, by fine and penalties as provided herein.
(Ord. 95-03, passed 3-13-1995; Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-16-2012) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
150.01 or the technical codes adopted herein, or shall fail to comply
therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, within the city limits
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be liable for a fine not to
exceed $2,000. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense. Such penalty shall be in addition to all the other remedies provided
herein.
      (2)   Whenever any building work is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter, another controlling ordinance or statute governing the
building, the Building Official or Code Enforcement Authority designated by the
City Administrator may order the work stopped by notice verbally or in writing
served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done and
the city shall post a STOP WORK ORDER on the property adjacent to the posted
building permit, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until
authorized by the Building Official or Code Enforcement Authority to proceed
with the work. If no permit has been issued, all work shall stop until a permit
has been properly issued and all errors corrected to the satisfaction of the
Building Official or Code Enforcement Authority. The Building Official or Code
Enforcement Authority may also issue a work correction order, which shall be
served upon any persons who are working on a certain aspect of the construction
project. The work on other aspects of the construction not in violation of the
city's ordinances may proceed, but work shall cease as to that aspect in
violation of the city's ordinances.
   (C)   A violation of any of the terms of §
150.03 shall constitute a misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a fine of
not less than $10, nor more than $200.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
150.20 et seq., or shall fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements thereof, within the city limits shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and shall be liable for a fine not to exceed the sum of $2,000. Each
day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. Such penalty
shall be in addition to all the other remedies provided herein. To the extent
of any conflict between this section and a penalty provision in the codes
adopted herein, such penalty provision shall be amended and this section shall
control.
(Ord. 57-3, passed 10-10-1957; Ord. 95-03, passed 3-13-1995; Ord. 2006-014,
passed 11-29-2006; Ord. 2009-003, passed 1-20-2009; Ord. 2012-008, passed 10-
16-2012; Ord. 2013-003, passed 6-18- 2013; Ord. 2017-001, passed 2-2-2017; Ord.
2018-012, passed 11-27-2018)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING
Section
   
151.01   Adopted by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City of Trinidad adopts in full the Zoning Code found in the Appendix A
to this chapter, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
APPENDIX A: COMPREHENSIVE ZONING ORDINANCE
   
Section I.   Title
   
Section II.   Purpose
   
Section III.   Definitions
   
Section IV.   General Application
   
Section IV-A.   Manufactured Home Subdivision District "M-1"
   
Section IV-B.   Manufactured Home Park District-District "M-2"
   
Section IV-C.   Mobile and Modular Components and Industrialized Homes
   
Section IV-D.   Geographic Areas Designated
   
Section V.   Development Standards
   
Section VI.   Non-Conforming Uses
   
Section VII.   Administration
   
Section VIII.   Amendment - Petitions and Limitations
   
Section IX.   Violations and Penalties
   
Attachment A.   Setbacks
Section I. Title
   This Ordinance shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance for Trinidad,
Henderson, County, Texas.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
Section II. Purpose.
   1.   General. It is hereby declared to be the purpose and intent of the City
Council in enacting this ordinance that the zoning regulations and districts as
herein established have been made in accordance with a comprehensive plan for
the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
City. They have been designed to lessen the congestion in the streets; to
secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and
air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of
population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements. They have been made
with reasonable consideration, among other things, for the character of the
district, and its peculiar suitability for the particular uses specified; and
with a view to conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most
appropriate use of land throughout the City consistent with a Comprehensive
Plan.
   Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Trinidad, Texas, that all
of the incorporated area within the City of Trinidad, Texas, shall be known as
the Trinidad Zoning Area and the following regulations, restrictions,
provisions shall apply thereto:
   2.   Establishment of Zones. In order to carry out the provisions of this
Ordinance, there are hereby established the following classifications of zoning
districts:
      R-1 Residential District
      R-2 Residential District
      MF-1 Multi-Family District
      M-1 Manufactured Home Subdivision District
      M-2 Manufactured Home Park District-District
      C-1 Commercial District
      C-2 Commercial District
      I-1 Industrial District
      I-2 Industrial District
      A Agricultural District
      PD Planned Development District
      PL-1 Public Lands District
   3.   Zoning Map. The zoning districts defined herein are shown on the Zoning
District Map of the City of Trinidad, which Maps is a part of this ordinance.
   4.   Zone Boundaries. Where uncertainty exists with respect to the
boundaries of the various districts as shown on the Zoning District Map
accompanying, and made a part of this ordinance, the following rule applies.
   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise shown.
Boundaries indicated as following streets or alleys shall be construed to
follow the centerline of said street or alley; boundaries indicated as
following platted lot lines or City limit boundaries shall be construed as
following the actual platted lot line or City limit.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
Section III. Definitions.
   Consistent with the content, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the singular number include the plural number, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the masculine sense
include the feminine. For the purpose of this ordinance, certain terms and
words are hereby defined as follows:
   Accessory Structures, Commercial - Buildings designed for off street
parking, garages for occupants and visitors, storage buildings and docks,
processing and manufacturing incidental thereto. Temporary construction
structures are also included.
   Accessory Structures, Industrial - Buildings designed for warehousing,
parking, open and enclosed storage, junkyards, equipment storage, docks and
salvage yards.
   Accessory Structures, Residential - In a residential district, a subordinate
building that is attached or detached and is used for a purpose that is
customarily incidental to the main structure such as a garage (less than 600
square feet in area); guest homes (less than 800 square feet in area); storage
buildings (less than 300 square feet in area); non-commercial greenhouses; home
occupations; and temporary construction structures. Accessory buildings,
residential, are subject to the setback provisions hereinafter specified and
shall be enclosed on all sides with one or more doors.
   Accessory Use - A use naturally and normally incident to, subordinate to and
devoted exclusively to the main use of the premises as further defined, and
which does not change the character thereof.
   Animated Sign - Any sign that uses movement, flashing lights, change of
lighting or other audio-visual aid to depict action or create a special effect.
   Approved - Means approved by the building official or City Council, as
appropriate.
   Bed and Breakfast - Homestay: A private, owner occupied residence where the
frequency and volume of bed and breakfast visitors are incidental to the
primary use of the building as a private residence; having no more than three
guest rooms; and serving meals as a part of the cost of the room. Inn: a
commercial business, offering overnight accommodations and meals as part of the
cost of the room, and having four to twenty guest rooms.
   Board of Adjustment - The Board of Adjustment of the City, or in their
absence, the City Council.
   Building - Means any structure for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind which has enclosing walls
around 50% of its perimeter.
   Building Area - The total area enclosed by a line formed by the outside
surface of all walls at the foundation line.
   Building Setback Line or Building Line or Setback Line (see Attachment A) -
A line defining an area on the building lot between the street right-of-way
line and all other property lines and the building line within which no
building or structure shall be constructed (also referred to as a “yard”),
encroach or project except as specifically authorized in an adopted ordinance
of the city. The term Building Setback Line may be used interchangeably with
the terms Building Line(s) and Setback Line(s) throughout the subdivision
regulations.
      (1)   Front Building Setback Line (defining a front yard). A line
parallel to the street right-of-way line which the building faces, and takes
its primary access from. Where lots have multiple frontages on one or more
streets, the required front yard shall be provided on each street (see examples
below).
      (2)   Side Building Setback Line (defining a side yard). A line parallel
to an adjacent lot which the building sides up to.
      (3)   Rear Building Setback Line (defining a rear yard). A line parallel
to an adjacent lot or alley, which the building backs up to and has its rear or
secondary access from.
   City - The City of Trinidad, Texas.
   City Council - The City Council of Trinidad, Texas.
   Conditional Use or Special Use - An additional use which may be permitted in
a district, subject to meeting certain conditions and procedures established by
the City Council.
   County - Henderson County, Texas.
   Development Standards - All or part of this ordinance which establishes
minimum yard areas and dimensions, setbacks, floor area ratios, maximum lot
coverage, building height, signage, and parking requirements.
   Density - Number of dwellings divided by acreage.
   Dwelling, Single-Family - A building designed for single family occupancy
and constructed onsite as a permanent improvement to a legal lot.
   Dwelling, Two Family (or Duplex) - A building designed for or occupied
exclusively by two (2) families.
   Dwelling (Multiple-Family) - Any building or portion thereof, which is
designed, built, rented, leased or let to be occupied as five (5) or more
dwelling units or apartments or which is occupied as a home or residence of
five (5) or more families.
   Farm Accessory Building - A structure, other than a dwelling, on a farm as
herein defined, for the housing protection or storage of the usual farm
equipment, animals and crops.
   Fences - The erection of any structure or barrier used for protection or to
create a boundary. Fencing materials not allowed within the City limits
include: plywood, sheet metal, corrugated steel, fiberglass panel, or electric
fences.
   Floor Area Ratio - The percentage obtained by dividing the total floor area
ratio of the main building, including balconies and garages, by the total area
of the lot.
   Freestanding Sign - Any sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from any
building or other structure.
   Group Home or Group Care Facility - A facility, required to be licensed by
the state, which provides training, care, supervision, treatment and/or
rehabilitation to the aged, disabled, those convicted of crimes, or those
suffering the effects of drugs or alcohol; this does not include day care
centers, family day care homes, foster homes, schools, hospitals, jails or
prisons.
   Half Story - A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at least two (2) opposite exterior walls are not more than
four (4) feet above the floor of such story, except that any partial story used
for residence purposes, other than by a family occupying the floor immediately
below it, sh all be deemed a full story.
   Height - The vertical distance from the highest point on a structure to the
average ground elevation where the foundation meets ground.
   Home Occupation - An occupation incidental to the use of a dwelling,
employing only members of the family, not offering commodities to be sold on
premise, and which does not create obnoxious conditions for adjacent
residential property. such as noise. odor, smoke, light, or excessive traffic.
It is an accessory to a residential use subject to the following limitations:
(a) the home occupation shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling unit
which is the bona fide residence of the practitioner(s); (b) the residential
character of the lot and dwelling shall be maintained; the exterior of the
dwelling shall not be structurally altered; and no additional buildings shall
be added on the property to accommodate the home occupation; (c) the occupation
shall not produce external noise, vibration, smoke, odor, fumes, electrical
interference or waste run-off outside the dwelling unit or on the property
surrounding the dwelling unit; and (d) no vehicle used in connection with the
home occupation which requires a commercial driver's license to operate shall
be parked on any street adjacent to the property.
   Industrialized Housing (Modular Housing) - A residential structure that is
designed for the occupancy of single-family or duplex use and includes the
structure's plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems; which
bears an approved and clearly visible decal or insignia, under rules
promulgated by the State of Texas signifying the dwelling as "industrialized";
the structure must be intended to be installed on a permanent foundation system
approved by the locally adopted building codes; that meets all other state and
local requirements for industrialized housing including as defined in Tex.
Occupations Code §
1202.002, as amended from time to time, that is inspected and permitted by and
under the jurisdiction and control of the Texas Department of Licensing and
Regulations.
   Legal Lot - A lot recorded in the Official County Records pursuant to and in
compliance with the subdivision regulations and/or state law in effect at the
time of the creation of the lot.
   Lot - A separate parcel of land, created by the division or subdivision of a
block or other parcel, intended as a unit for transfer of ownership, or for
development, or for occupancy and/or use, platted in compliance with state law.
See also: Legal Lot.
   Lot Depth - The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   Lot Lines - The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
   Lot Width - The average horizontal distance at the front building setback
line of a lot.
   Lighted Sign - Any sign which is illuminated but does not use movement,
changes of lighting, flashing lights, or other audio-visual aid to create a
special effect or depict a scene.
   Manufactured Home - A complete living unit, manufactured at a location away
from the lot on which it will be located, as defined in Tex. Occupations Code §
1201.003, as amended from time to time.
   Manufactured Home Park - A unified development for manufactured housing
spaces arranged on a tract of land in compliance with the Subdivision Ordinance
and this Ordinance, with the individual lots or parcels being held under a
common ownership and rented or leased to the occupants who reside in
manufactured homes, modular component, or Tiny Houses.
   Mobile Home - A movable or portable structure constructed prior to June 15,
1976 that is eight (8') feet, or more, in width and forty feet ( 40'), or more,
in length constructed to be towed on its own integral chassis, as defined in
Tex. Occupations Code § 1201.003, as amended from time to time.
   Modular Component - A structure or building module as defined in Tex.
Occupations Code § 1202.001, as amended from time to time, that is inspected
and permitted by and under the jurisdiction and control of the Texas Department
of Licensing and Regulations, that is transportable in one or more sections and
designed to be used on a permanent foundation system. The term includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained in the
component. The term does not include a mobile home or a manufactured home.
   Nonconforming Sign - Any sign which does not conform to the requirements of
this ordinance.
   Nonconforming Structure or Building - A structure or building the size
dimensions or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption, revision or
amendment of the zoning ordinance, but which fails by reason of such adoption,
revision or amendment, to conform to the present requirements of the zoning
district.
   Nonconforming Use - Any building, structure or land lawfully occupied by a
use or lawfully existing at the time of passage of this Ordinance or Amendments
thereto, which does not, by reason of design or use, conform after the passage
of this Ordinance or Amendments with the regulations of the Ordinance or
Amendment.
   Open Space - An area included in any side, rear or front yard or any
unoccupied space on the lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky except for
the ordinary projections of cornices, eaves, porches, and plant material.
   Person - Means a natural person, his heirs, executors, administrators, or
assigns and also includes a firm, partnership, or corporation, its officers or
their successors, or assigns, or the agents of the aforesaid.
   Private Club - A club where alcoholic beverages are stored, possessed and
mixed on club premises and served for on-premises consumption only to members
of the club and their families and guests, by the drink or in a sealed,
unsealed or broken containers of any legal size.
   Setback - The distance from the property line to the nearest part of the
applicable building, structure, or sign, measured perpendicularly to the
property line.
   Sign - Any device or surface on which letters, illustrations, designs,
figures, or symbols are painted, printed, stamped, raised, projected,
illuminated, or in any manner outlined or attached and used for advertising
purposes.
   Story - That portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or, if
there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
   Street - A public or private right-of-way which affords the principal means
of access to abutting property.
   Street Line - That line limiting the right-of-way of the street and being
identical with the property line of persons owning property fronting on the
streets.
   Structure - Any building or anything constructed or erected on the ground or
which is attached to something located on the ground. Structures include
buildings, telecommunications towers, sheds, parking lots that are the primary
use of a parcel and permanent signs. Sidewalks and paving shall not be
considered structures unless located within a public utility or drainage
easement.
   Subdivision - The division or redivision of land into two (2) or more lots,
tracts, sites or parcels for the purpose of development, laying out any
addition to the City, or for laying out any subdivision or building lots, or
any lot, street, alley, access easement, public utility easement, park or other
portion intended for use by the public, or for the use of any owner, purchaser,
occupant, person or entity.
   Tiny House - A single-family detached house that is between nine hundred
(900) square feet and one thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet in size. As
used herein, this house is a permanent structure that is constructed on or off
site.
   Trailer - A recreational vehicle, travel trailer, motor home, camper, or
other motor vehicle designed for human habitation, excluding manufactured homes
and mobile homes, or a motor vehicle that is designed or used to carry a load
wholly on its own structure and is drawn or design to be drawn by a motor
vehicle.
   Variance - A relaxing of the Development Standards of this Ordinance because
conditions peculiar to the property not resulting from actions of the
applicant, cause undue hardship and prevent the enjoyment of property rights as
shared by other nearby properties which conform to the Development Controls.
   Yard - An open space at grade between the principal and accessory buildings
and the adjoining lot lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a
structure from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein.
   Yard Depth - The shortest distance between a lot line and a yard line.
   Yard, Front - A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
lot lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street
easement line and the main building or any projections thereof.
   Yard Line - A line drawn parallel to a lot line at a distance therefrom
equal to the depth of the required yard.
   Yard, Rear - A yard extending across the rear of a lot and being the
required minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the rear of
the main building or any projections thereof.
   Yard, Side - A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot,
and extending from the required front yard to the required rear yard, and being
the minimum horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of any
building on the lot, or any projections thereof.
   Zoning Commission - The Trinidad Planning and Zoning Commission.
   Zoning Official - The zoning official shall be the City Secretary or such
other person as may be appointed by the City Council.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
Section IV. General Application.
   A.   General: Except as hereinafter provided:
   No building shall be erected and no existing building shall be moved,
altered, added to, or enlarged, nor shall any land, building or premises be
used, designated or intended to be used for any purpose or in any manner other
than is included among the uses hereinafter listed as permitted in the district
in which building, land, or premises is located.
   No sign shall be erected, moved altered, added to, enlarged, painted, or
modified, except in conformity to the sign regulations. No building shall be
erected, nor shall any existing building be altered, enlarged or rebuilt, nor
shall any open space surrounding any building be encroached upon or reduced in
any manner, except in conformity with the yard, building, site, area and
building location regulations hereinafter designated for the district in which
such building or open space is located. No yard or open space provided about
any building for the purpose of complying with provisions of this Ordinance
shall be considered as providing a yard or open space for a building on any
other lot.
   No building, structure or accessory structure shall be erected, converted or
enlarged, nor shall any such existing building or structure be structurally
altered or rebuilt, nor shall any open space surrounding any building be
encroached upon or reduced in any manner, unless the same shall be done and
completed in a manner to comply with all applicable City codes and ordinances,
and such work and structure shall:
      a.   Conform to the setback, building site area, building location and
land use regulations hereinafter designated for the district in which such
building or open space is located.
      b.   Not exceed the height limit herein established for the district in
which such building is located, except as specifically authorized as follows.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following describes permitted uses in the
established zoning districts.
      1.   R-1 Residential District - In the R-1 District, no building or land
shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected, converted, or
structurally altered, unless otherwise provided herein, except for the
following uses:
         Single family buildings, modular components that comply with this
Section, and accessory uses thereto (including Residential Accessory
Structures), public uses authorized for the R-1 District in Section IV(C)
provided they comply with Development Standards for R-1 zones., and the uses
authorized for the R-1 District in Section IV(C).
         No recreational vehicles or travel trailers may be parked and/or used
for lodging/overnight stays or hooked up to utilities in the R-1 District.
      2.   R-2 Residential District - In the R-2 District, no building or land
shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected, converted, or
structurally altered, unless otherwise provided herein, except for the
following uses:
         Single family dwellings, duplexes, modular components that comply with
this Section, uses authorized for the R-2 District in Section IV(C), and
accessory uses thereto (including Residential Accessory Structures).
         No recreational vehicles or travel trailers may be parked and/or used
for lodging/overnight stays or hooked up to utilities in the R-2 District.
      3.   MF-1 Multi-Family District - In the MF-1 District, no building or
land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected, converted, or
structurally altered, unless otherwise provided herein, except for the
following uses:
         Single family homes, duplexes, apartments, uses authorized for the MF-
1 District in Section IV(C), and accessory uses thereto (including Residential
Accessory Structures).
         No recreational vehicles or travel trailers may be parked and/or used
for lodging/overnight stays or hooked up to utilities in the MF-1 District.
      4.   M-1 Manufactured Home Subdivision District - In the M-1 District, no
building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected,
converted, or structurally altered, unless otherwise provided herein, except
for the following uses:
         The uses authorized in Section IV-A.
      5.   M-2 Manufactured Home Park District-District - In the M-2 District,
no building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected,
converted, or structurally altered, unless otherwise provided herein, except
for the following uses:
         The uses authorized in Section IV-B.
      6.   C-1 Commercial District - In the C-1 District, no building or land
shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected, converted or
structurally altered unless otherwise provided herein, except for the following
uses:
         Professional buildings, offices, enclosed storage, flammable liquids
or gases, public and private parking, assembly uses, private schools, nursing
homes, food manufacturers and food processing not involving animals or animal
processing, hotels, motels, convenience stores, lodging houses, furniture
assembly, automobile service and repair, car washes, restaurants, auto sales,
other retail sales, drive-in services, and any commercial recreational
facilities, drinking and eating establishments (except for private clubs),
accessory uses to the above uses (including Commercial Accessory Structures),
and uses authorized for the C-1 District in Section IV(C).
         No recreational vehicles or travel trailers may be used for lodging/
overnight stays or hooked up to utilities in the C-1 District. Travel trailers
and recreational vehicles may be parked for repairs, sales or services with/
from businesses located in such C-1 District.
      7.   C-2 Commercial District - In the C-2 District, no building or land
shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected, converted or
structurally altered unless otherwise provided herein, except for the following
uses:
         All uses allowed in the C-1 District, private clubs, and uses
authorized for the C-2 District in Section IV(C).
         No recreational vehicles or travel trailers may be used for lodging/
overnight stays or hooked up to utilities in the C-2 District. Travel trailers
and recreational vehicles may be parked for repairs, sales or services with/
from businesses located in such C-2 District.
      8.   I-1 Industrial District - In the I-1 District, no building or land
shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected, converted or
structurally altered unless otherwise provided herein, except for the following
uses:
         Industries which do not emit noxious odors, or offensive noises, or
lint or smoke or smog and which enclose all activity as authorized for the I-
1 District in Section IV(C); assembly, manufacturing, fabrication and mixing
plants; and residences of security guards, firemen and persons employed at the
place of activity.
         No recreational vehicles or travel trailers may be used for lodging/
overnight stays or hooked up to utilities in the I-1 District. Travel trailers
and recreational vehicles may be parked for repairs, sales or services with/
from businesses located in such 1-1 District.
      9.   I-2 Industrial District - In the I-2 District, no building or land
shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected, converted or
structurally altered unless otherwise provided herein, except for the following
uses:
         Industries which emit noxious odors, offensive noises, or lint, smoke,
smog, or other airborne particulates as authorized for the I-2 District in
Section IV(C).
         No recreational vehicles or travel trailers may be used for lodging/
overnight stays or hooked up to utilities in the I-2 District. Travel trailers
and recreational vehicles may be parked for repairs, sales or services with/
from businesses located in such I-2 District.
      10.   A - Agricultural District - There exists in fringe areas of the
City land which is presently used for agricultural purposes. These lands may
continue to be used for agricultural purposes until needed for urban purposes
in conformity with the orderly growth of the City. The uses permitted in the A-
Agricultural District are intended to accommodate the normal farming, ranching
and gardening activities, and include single family residences on 1 acre or
more of land; ranches, farms, gardens, stables, green houses and other agrarian
uses; accessory uses; and uses authorized for the A District in Section IV(C).
It is anticipated that all of the A-Agricultural District Area will eventually
be changed to other zoning categories as the area within the corporate limits
of the City becomes fully developed.
         On parcels over ten (10) acres and larger, recreational vehicles or
travel trailers may be parked and used for short term (10 days or less)
lodging/overnight stays so long as there exists at least one single family
residence. Such recreational vehicle or travel trailer shall not be hooked up
to utilities in the A District.
         All property newly annexed to the City of Trinidad shall be
temporarily classified as A- Agricultural District, until such time as
permanent zoning has been established by the City Council.
      11.   PD - Planned Development District - The Trinidad City Council may
authorize, by amendments to this Zoning Ordinance, creation of special
districts of a type not conforming to the districts previously addressed
herein, after public hearing, proper notice to affected parties, and upon
recommendation of the Trinidad Planning and Zoning Commission. Such special
districts shall be known as Planned Development Districts, and may include
commercial shopping centers, housing developments, mobile home parks,
industrial parks, office parks, or a combination of these uses.
         To establish a Planned Development District under this section, the
City Council must require the submittal of a comprehensive site plan of the
development. The site plan must include provisions for site access, all streets
or drives, right of way, utilities, drainage, parking spaces, lot coverage,
yards, open spaces, and such other development requirements as may be requested
by the City. In approving a Planned Development District, the City Council may
impose conditions relative to the standard of development, and such conditions
must be complied with prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
      12.   P - Public Lands District - In the P District, no building or land
shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected, converted or
structurally altered unless otherwise provided herein, except for the following
uses:
         Parks, public schools, playgrounds, public cemeteries, public owned
buildings and lands, churches, fire stations, public utilities, such as water
storage and wastewater collection and treatment facilities, and uses authorized
for the P District in Section IV(C).
         A recommendation of the proper zoning classification for types of land
use which are not identified in this ordinance shall be made by the Planning
and Zoning Commission, after consideration of the compatibility of the proposed
use with the uses permitted in other districts. Uses not specifically
identified herein may be authorized in a district by special permit, provided
said uses are compatible with existing and permitted uses, and do not cause
excessive traffic, noise, smoke or other environmental pollutants. The
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be referred to the
City Council for final approval.
   C.   Legend for Interpreting Permitted Uses.
      "P" designates use permitted in district indicated.
      A blank cell designates use prohibited in district indicated
      "S" designates use may be approved by Specific Use Permit.
      1.   Primary Residential Uses.
Type of Use A R-1 R-2 MF-1 P C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 PD
Type of Use                           A R-1 R-2 MF-1 P C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 PD
Single Family Detached Dwelling       P P   P   P    P                 P
Single Family Attached Dwelling                 P                      P
Two Family Dwelling                             P                      P
Multiple Family Dwelling                        P                      P
Boarding or Rooming House                              P   P
Bed & Breakfast Inn                                    P   P           P
Hotel or Motel                        S                P   P           P
Trailer Camp or RV/Motor Home Park    S                P   P           P
Manufactured Home as a fixed dwelling S S   S   P                      P
 
      2.   Accessory and Incidental Uses.
Type of Use A R-1 R-2 MF-1 P C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 PD
Type of Use                               A R-1 R-2 MF-1 P C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 PD
Accessory Structure                       P P   P   P    P P   P   P   P   P
Farm Accessory Building                   P                        P   P   P
Home Occupation                           P P   P   P                      P
Off Street Parking Incidental to Main Use P P   P   P                      P
Bed & Breakfast Homestay                  P P   P   P
Stable (Private)                          P                        P   P
Swimming Pool (Private)                   P P   P   P                      P
Temporary Field Office or Construction    P P   P   P    P P   P   P   P   P
Office
 
      3.   Utility and Service Uses.
Type of Use A R-1 R-2 MF-1 P C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 PD
Type of Use                                 A R-1 R-2 MF-1 P C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 PD
Electrical Substation                       P S   S   S    S P   P   P   P   P
Electrical Energy Generating Plant          S                S       P   P
Electrical Transmission Use                 P P   P   P    P P   P   P   P   P
Fire Station                                P P   P   P    P P   P   P   P   P
Gas Lines and Regulating Station            P P   P   P    P P   P   P   P   P
Local Utility Line                          P P   P   P    P P   P   P   P   P
Public Building Shop or Yard of Local,      S S   S   S    S P   P   P   P   P
State of Federal Agency
Radio, Television or Microwave Tower        S S   S   S    S P   P   P   P   P
Radio or Television Transmitting Station    S                P   P   P   P   P
Sewage Pumping Station                      P P   P   P    P P   P   P   P   P
Sewage Treatment Plant                      S              P         P   P
Telephone Business Office                                    P   P   P   P   P
Telephone Exchange, Switching Relay or      P P   P   P    P P   P   P   P   P
Transmission Station
Utility Shops or Storage Yards or Buildings S                S   P   P   P
(Private)
Water Standpipe or Elevated Water Storage   P P   P   P    P P   P   P   P   P
Water Reservoir, Well or Pumping Station    P P   P   P    P P   P   P   P   P
Water Treatment Plant                       S              P         P   P
 
      4.   Recreational and Entertainment Uses.
Type of Use A R-1 R-2 MF-1 P C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 PD
Type of Use                                A R-1 R-2 MF-1 P C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 PD
Amusement, Commercial (Outdoor)            S                P   P           P
Amusement Commercial (Indoor)                               P   P   P   P   P
Country Club (Private) with Golf Course    P S   S   S          P   P   P   P
Dance Hall or Night Club                                    P   P   P   P   S
Day Camp for Children                      P S              P       P   P   P
Go Cart Track                              S                        S   S   S
Park or Playground (Public)                P P   P   P    P P   P           P
Playfield or Stadium (Public)              P                P   P           P
Private Club (serving alcoholic beverages)                  P   P           P
Roller or Ice Skating Rink                 S                P   P
Rodeo Grounds                              S                S   P
 
      5.   Educational and Institutional Uses (Group Homes).
Type of Use A R-1 R-2 MF-1 P C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 PD
Type of Use                      A R-1 R-2 MF-1 P C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 PD
Cemetery or Mausoleum            S S   S   S    S S   S   S   S   S
Church or Rectory                P P   P   P    P P   P           P
Lodge or Civic Club                        P      S   S   P   P   P
Community Center (Public)        P P   P   P    P P   P   P       P
Kindergarten or Nursery          P S   S   S    S S   P   P       P
Hospital                         P S   S   S    S S   P   P       P
School, Public or Denominational P P   P   P    P P   P   P       P
 
      6.   Transportation Related Uses.
 
Type of Use                A R-1 R-2 MF-1 P C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 PD
Hauling or Storage Company                  P   P   P   P   P
Motor Freight Terminal                              P   P
Railroad Freight Terminal                           P   P
Railroad Track or          P P   P   P    P P   P   P   P   P
Right-of-Way
Parking Lot Truck                           P   P   P   P
 
      7.   Automobile Service Uses.
 
Type of Use                            A R-1 R-2 MF-1 P C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 PD
Auto Glass, Muffler or Seat Cover Shop                  P   P   P
Auto Parts and Accessory Sales                          P   P   P
Auto Painting or Body Rebuilding Shop                   P   P   P
Automobile Repair Garage               Q                P   P   P
Gasoline or Fuel Service Station                        P   P   P
New or Used Auto Sales                                  P   P   P
 
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
Section IV-A. Manufactured Home Subdivision District "M-1."
   A "Manufactured Home Subdivision District" "District M-1" is hereby created
within the City. Only geographic areas of the City that have been previously
platted and developed, or are being platted and developed, as a subdivision in
compliance with State law, may, upon application, notice and hearings as
required by state law, be zoned Manufactured Home Subdivision District;
provided that no such land area shall be eligible for this zoning district
unless such area includes at least one platted block and is separated from
neighboring single family "R-1" residential zoning by a street, creek, drainage
way, greenbelt, or other natural barrier.
   A.   Permitted Uses.
      1.   Manufactured Home Subdivision District. Land and areas of the City
zoned "M-1 " may be used and occupied by Manufactured Homes, Modular/
Industrialized Housing, and Tiny Houses that comply with Section IV-A.E.5 of
this Ordinance.
      2.   Additional Permitted Uses. The following uses shall be additional
permitted uses in any area and property zoned "M-1" within the City:
         a.   Manufactured homes.
         b.   Modular/Industrialized components.
         c.   Tiny Houses.
         d.   Any use permitted in "R-1."
         e.   Churches.
         f.   Municipal Buildings.
      3.   Purpose. The intent of this district is to provide for the location
of HUD manufactured homes, modular/industrialized homes, tiny homes, or on-site
construction single family residential, together with such public and semi-
public buildings and facilities and accessory structures as may be necessary
and compatible with residential surroundings of this nature. The district is
specifically designed to permit at acceptable densities the platting and
selling/conveyance of property rights to and ownership in subdivided individual
lots upon which such structures are to be located.
   B.   Height Regulations. No building shall exceed twenty-six feet (26') or
two (2) stories in height.
   C.   Area Regulations.
      1.   Size of Yards.
         a.   Front Yard. There shall be a front yard having a depth of not
less than twenty-five (25) feet. Where lots have a double frontage, extending
through from one street to another, the required front yard shall be provided
on both streets.
         b.   Side Yard. There shall be a side yard of not less than seven (7)
feet in width on each side of the lot. A side yard adjacent to a side street
shall not be less than fifteen (15) feet. No side yard for allowable
nonresidential uses shall be less than twenty-five (25) feet.
         c.   Rear Yard. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less
than twenty feet (20') measured from the rear lot line.
      2.   Size of Lot.
         a.   Lot Area. Lots served by the City wastewater collection system
shall have a minimum of seven thousand (7,000) square feet. All lots not served
by the City wastewater collection system shall have a minimum lot area of one-
half (½) acre.
         b.   Lot Width. Lots shall have a minimum width of seventy feet (70')
at the building line and for a distance of at least forty feet (40') behind the
building line. The average width of all such lots shall not be less than the
required width of such lot at the building line.
         c.   Lot Depth. The average depth of the lot shall not be less than
one hundred feet (100').
   D.   Parking Regulations. Not less than two off-street parking spaces shall
be provided for each lot. Minimum driveway must be 12 feet wide to public
street; driveway to be hard surfaced such as asphalt, concrete, bricks,
cobblestone or paving stones.
   E.   Other Regulations.
      1.   No manufactured home with less than five hundred (500) square feet
is permitted lot.
      2.   Manufactured homes must be skirted within sixty (60) days from the
date placed on a lot.
      3.   Manufactured homes must be tied down securely and in compliance with
applicable regulations prior to occupancy.
      4.   No manufactured home may be located in any District other than "M-1"
or "M-2."
      5.   Tiny House regulations.
         a.   One (1) Tiny House and associated amenities is allowed per lot.
The minimum dwelling size shall be no less than nine hundred forty (940) square
feet and no more than one thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet of living
area.
         b.   Tiny Houses shall be permanent structures that are constructed on
or off site and shall be mounted to a permanent foundation.
         c.   Tiny Houses shall be installed in accordance with the following
criteria:
            (i)   Each Tiny House is required to have a driveway and an
address. Alternative materials such as ribbon driveways, crushed granite with
ribbon curbs, or other material as approved by the Building Official are
permitted as long as the driveway is in compliance with the Fire Code.
            (ii)   Garage and carport additions are permitted, provided they
cover a paved parking area or other approved material as listed above and are
connected to a street by a paved drive, meet the minimum building setback
requirements, and have roof and siding material compatible with the primary
structure.
            (iii)   Parking areas may be asphalt, concrete, crushed granite
with a concrete ribbon curb, or other similar material approved by the Building
Official.
            (iv)   Patio and porch covers are permitted, provided they cover an
improved patio, deck or porch and meet the minimum building setback
requirements.
            (v)   Each Tiny House shall be connected to City utilities
including water and wastewater.
      5.   The standards set forth in Section IV-B.A.4. shall be applicable.
      6.   A development designed as a manufactured home subdivision shall meet
all requirements of the city subdivision ordinance, this section, the
manufactured home park district, and all applicable sections of the
manufactured home park ordinance.
      7.   No recreational vehicles or travel trailers may be parked and/or
used for lodging/overnight stays or hooked up to utilities in the M-1 District.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
Section IV-B. Manufactured Home Park District-District "M-2."
   A "Manufactured Home Park District "M-2" is hereby created within the City.
   A.   Use Regulations.
      1.   Manufactured Home Park. Property and areas of the City zoned "M-2"
shall be planned, used, approved, platted and occupied as a Manufactured Home
Park. Land and areas of the City zoned "M-2" and having an approved subdivision
plat or site plan for a Manufactured Home Park may be used for manufactured
homes and modular components. A manufactured home park shall be subject to and
comply with the terms and provisions of the Subdivision Ordinance.
      2.   Permitted Uses.
         a.   One manufactured home, Industrialized/Modular house, or Tiny Home
on each approved space or lot.
         b.   Accessory buildings located on a lot for use by the owner or
occupant of a structure that is located on such lot.
         c.   Recreational, civic and/or commercial facilities designed for
exclusive use of the occupants of the Manufactured Home Park.
         d.   One single-family dwelling unit on a 7,000 square foot or larger
lot for use as the owner's or manager's residence.
      3.   Purpose. The M-2 District is established for the following purposes:
         a.   To provide adequate space and site diversification for
residential purposes that are planned to accommodate the design criteria of
manufactured homes and Tiny Homes.
         b.   To protect against pollution, environmental hazards and other
objectionable influences.
         c.   To make adequate provisions for vehicular and pedestrian
circulation.
         d.   To promote housing densities appropriate to and compatible with
existing and proposed public support facilities.
         e.   To promote the most desirable use of land and direction of
building development; to promote stability of development; to protect the
character of the district; to conserve the value of land and buildings; and to
protect the city's tax base.
         f.   To promote and obtain the benefits of quality development and
housing for the city and its citizens.
         g.   To assist the city to accomplish the intent and purposes of Tex.
Loc. Gov't. Code Ch. 211 and 212.
         h.   To provide a quality living environment for persons to occupy and
live on lots that are leased and rented, but not owned by the individual
occupants.
      4.   Standards. The installation, occupancy and maintenance of
manufactured homes and Industrialized/Modular Homes in the "M-2" district shall
be subject to the following provisions:
         a.   No outside horizontal dimension shall be less than 14 feet,
except for original extensions or subsequent additions containing less than 50%
of the total enclosed floor area.
         b.   The structures shall be of adequate quality and safe design, as
certified by a label stating that the unit is constructed in conformance with
the federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards in effect on
the date of manufacture; or other such applicable standards. Any such structure
without such certification, but meeting all other requirements, may be accepted
as a safe and quality construction provided it meets the following criteria:
            (i)   All electrical material, devices, appliances, and equipment
are in sound and safe condition. Aluminum conductors are not acceptable.
            (ii)   All mechanical systems including space and water heating,
are in sound and safe
condition.
            (iii)   All plumbing, gas piping, and wastewater systems are in
sound and safe condition.
            (iv)   The unit is in sound and safe structural condition.
Uncompressed finish floorings greater than 1/8 inch in thickness beneath load-
bearing walls that are fastened to the floor structure are not acceptable. Any
such structure that shows signs of fire damage, are not acceptable.
            (v)   The determination of the foregoing acceptance of any
noncertified unit shall be made jointly by the Building Official or the Fire
Marshall.
         c.   Tiny Homes shall comply with Section IV-A.E.5.
      5.   Installation. Save and except only when the standards and
requirements for installation are specified and controlled by state or federal
law, manufactured homes shall be installed by a person licensed by the state in
compliance with state law and in accordance with the following criteria:
         a.   The frame shall be supported by, and tied to, a foundation system
capable of safely supporting the loads imposed as determined from the character
of the soil. The minimum acceptable foundation design shall be a series of
eight-inch grout-filled concrete block piers spaced no more than eight feet on
center and bearing on 12" x 12" solid concrete footings. A tie-down and
anchoring system separate and apart front, the foundation ties shall be
provided as recommended by the manufacturer, if different from the foundation
ties.
         b.   Axle and hitch assemblies shall be removed at the time of
placement on the foundation.
         c.   Each manufactured home shall be totally skirted with metal,
masonry, pressure-treated wood, or other nondegradable material which is
compatible with the design and exterior materials of the primary structure.
         d.   Electrical power supply shall be made from a meter installation
on the manufactured home, or from a permanent meter pedestal.
         e.   Driveways and off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the requirements for single-family dwellings.
         f.   Garage and carport additions are permitted, provided they cover a
paved parking area and are connected to a street by a paved drive, meet the
minimum building setback requirements, and have roof and siding material
compatible with the primary structure.
         g.   Patio and porch covers are permitted, provided they cover an
improved patio, deck, or porch, and meet the minimum building setback
requirements.
         h.   Living area additions are permitted, provided they meet the
minimum building setback requirements, have roof and siding material that is
compatible with the primary structure, and comply with the same structural
standards as the primary structure.
      6.   Required conditions.
         a.   A development designed as a manufactured home park shall meet all
requirements of this Ordinance, the manufactured home park ordinance of the
city, and the city subdivision ordinance. Said facility so designed shall be
for the explicit purpose of renting or leasing of manufactured home sites and
shall not be construed to permit the sale of such spaces as lots.
         b.   A development designed as a manufactured home park shall meet all
requirements of the city subdivision ordinance except that (excluding any thru
or connecting street or easement required by the Council to be dedicated) the
streets and easements for local in-park utility service shall be private, the
requirements of this section, the non-conflicting requirements of the
manufactured home district, and all applicable sections of the manufactured
home park ordinance.
         c.   At no time may an existing manufactured home park be converted to
a manufactured home subdivision without first meeting all requirements of the
city subdivision ordinance and receiving approval by the City Council.
   B.   Area Regulations. The minimum lot area, lot width and lot length, and
the side, front and rear yard set-back requirements provided for the
Manufactured Home Subdivision District in Section IV-A, shall be applicable to
the M-2 District.
   C.   Parking Regulations. Not less than two off street parking spaces for
each lot, or manufactured home pad site or Tiny Home site. Minimum driveway
must be 12 feet wide to public street; driveway to be hard surfaced such as
asphalt, concrete, bricks, cobblestone or paving stones.
   D.   Other Regulations.
      1.   General standards.
         a.   All minimum requirements stated for the "M-1" and the "R-1"
district shall apply; provided that to the extent in conflict the more
stringent provision shall govern.
         b.   No through traffic shall be permitted in a Manufactured Home
Park.
         c.   A perimeter fence shall be required, unless exempted for good
cause by the Planning
& Zoning Commission.
         d.   Curbs and gutters shall be required and shall conform to the
requirement for City streets.
      2.   Specific use permits prohibited.
         a.   Manufactured Home Parks shall not be permitted within any zoning
district other than "M-2" and specific or conditional use permits shall not be
applicable to Manufactured Home Parks.
         b.   No recreational vehicles or travel trailers may be parked and/or
used for lodging/overnight stays or hooked up to utilities in the M-2 District.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
Section IV-C. Mobile and Modular Components and Industrialized Homes.
   A.   Mobile Homes. No mobile homes shall be moved into or relocated within
the City after the date of this Ordinance. A mobile home lawfully existing
within the City on the effective date of this Ordinance shall be non-conforming
use and shall be subject to the terms and conditions of Section VI.
   B.   Modular Components. To the extent required by State law, a building
unit licensed by the State as a modular component or industrialized house shall
not be subject to the rules and regulations applicable to manufactured homes.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
Section IV-D. Geographic Areas Designated.
   The community plans include provision for certain areas of the City to be
eligible for District Ml or District M-2 zoning.
   A.   Designated Areas. The following geographic areas are planned and
designated as eligible for zoning for the location of manufactured home
subdivisions and manufactured home parks:
      1.   The manufactured home park known as Mc Clintock Mobile Home Park
located at the corner of N. Leagueline Road and Mc Clintock Lane, Trinidad,
Texas, being more particularly known as Tract 13, being 13.07 acres, out of
Abstract 581, George Novell Survey.
      2.   The manufactured home park known as Trinity Lake Mobile Home Park
located at 10191 FM 1667, Trinidad, Texas, being more particularly known as
Tract 33, being 13.63 acres, out of Abstract 430, William Ligon Survey.
      3.   Being within the boundaries of the manufactured home park known as
Stanfield Mobile Home Park as the boundaries existed on the effective date of
this ordinance located at 400 Lawrence St., Trinidad, Texas, being more or less
three acres out of the 33.824 acre tract more particularly known as Tract 105,
out of Abstract 17, N. Addison Survey.
   B.   Limitation. No land or area of the City shall be zoned for manufactured
home subdivision or manufactured home park, unless it is located within one of
the above described zones.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
Section V. Development Standards.
   Any building or structure constructed, erected or installed within the City
shall comply with the following development standards:
   A.   R-1 and R-2 Districts; Duplexes.
      1.   Set-Backs.
      Front - Twenty-five (25) feet from street line.
      Interior Sides - Five (5) feet.
      Rear - Five (5) feet.
      Side Street - Corner lots shall have both street exposures treated as
front yards and shall comply with front setback requirements.
      2.   Minimum Lot Widths and Depths.
      R-1: 70 ft. wide, 100' depth.
      R-2: 100 ft. wide, 100' depth.
      3.   Minimum Lot Size.
      R-1 : 7,000 square feet
      R-2: 15,000 square feet
      Duplexes: 7,000 square feet
      4.   Minimum total building living space of principal structures - 1,400
square feet, except that the minimum total building living space for principal
structures constructed with HOME Grant funds is 1,000 square feet.
      5.   Height: No building or structure shall have a height in excess of 2
and½ stories.
      6.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The maximum percent of the lot area which may
be covered by all buildings, including storage buildings in the R-1 or R-
2 Districts, shall be as follows:
         a.   R-1, 40%
         b.   R-2, 40%
      7.   Storage buildings. A structure designed for use as storage or for
transporting materials shall not be used as a residential structure. Large
shipping or cargo containers (e.g. conex) shall not be used in any manner for
storage or as a residential structure.
      8.   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers. No long term or permanent
use of temporary dwellings such as recreational vehicles, travel trailers may
be used for on-site dwelling/residential purposes. No utilities may be hooked
up to any recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
   B.   MF-1 District.
      1.   Set-Backs.
         a.   Front - Twenty-five (25) feet from the street line.
         b.   Interior Sides - Fifteen (15) feet.
         c.   Side Street - Fifteen (15) feet.
         d.   Rear - Twenty-five (25) feet.
      2.   Minimum Lot Width: 80 feet.
      3.   Minimum Lot Size: 15,000 square feet; provided that for apartments
and condominiums, density on a single lot may not exceed 27 units per gross
acre.
      4.   Height: No building or structure shall have a height in excess of 3
stories.
      5.   Maximum Lot Coverage:
         a.   The maximum lot coverage of the main building shall be 40%.
         b.   The maximum lot coverage of all structures shall be 50%.
      Single Family Dwellings and Duplexes - Single Family Dwellings and
Duplexes shall comply with the development standards set forth in Section V(A).
      6.   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers. No permanent or long-term
use of temporary dwellings such as recreational vehicles or travel trailers may
be used for on-site dwelling/residential purposes. No utilities may be hooked
up to any recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
   C.   M-1 District. See Section IV-A.
   D.   M-2 District. See Section IV-B.
   E.   C-1 and C-2 Districts.
      1.   Set-Backs.
         a.   Front - Twenty-five (25) feet from the street line.
         b.   Interior Sides - Seven (7) feet.
         c.   Side Street - Fifteen (15) feet.
         d.   Rear - Fifteen (15) feet.
      2.   Minimum Lot Widths: 50 feet.
      3.   Minimum Lot Size: 6,000 square feet.
      4.   Height: No building or structure shall have a height in excess of 45
feet.
      5.   Maximum Lot Coverage:
         a.   The maximum lot coverage of the main building shall be 40%.
         b.   The maximum lot coverage of all structures shall be 50%.
      6.   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers. No permanent or long-term
use of temporary dwellings such as recreational vehicles or travel trailers may
be used for on-site dwelling/residential purposes. No utilities may be hooked
up to any recreational vehicles or travel trailers. Such vehicles may be parked
on an approved surface for repairs, sales and/or services with/from businesses
located in such district.
   F.   I-1 District.
      1.   Set-Backs.
         a.   Front - Twenty-five (25) feet from the street line.
         b.   Interior Sides - Twenty-five (25) feet.
         c.   Side Street - Twenty-five (25) feet.
         d.   Rear - Twenty-five (25) feet.
      2.   Minimum Lot Width: 80 feet.
      3.   Minimum Lot Size: 9,000 square feet.
      4.   Height: No building or structure shall have a height in excess of 45
feet.
      5.   Maximum Lot Coverage:
         a.   The maximum lot coverage of the main building shall be 50%.
         b.   The maximum lot coverage of all structures shall be 60%.
      6.   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers. No permanent or long-term
use of temporary dwellings such as recreational vehicles or travel trailers may
be used for on-site dwelling/residential purposes. No utilities may be hooked
up to any recreational vehicles or travel trailers. Such vehicles may be parked
on an approved surface for repairs, sales and/or services with/from businesses
located in such district.
   G.   I-2 District.
      1.   Set-Backs.
         a.   Front - Fifty (50) feet from the street line.
         b.   Interior Sides - Fifty (50) feet.
         c.   Side Street - Fifty (50) feet.
         d.   Rear - Fifty (50) feet.
      2.   Minimum Lot Width: 150 feet.
      3.   Minimum Lot Size: 43,500 square feet.
      4.   Height: No building or structure shall have a height in excess of 45
feet.
      5.   Maximum Lot Coverage:
         a.   The maximum lot coverage of the main building shall be 40%.
         b.   The maximum lot coverage of all structures shall be 45%.
      6.   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers. No permanent or long-term
use of temporary dwellings such as recreational vehicles or travel trailers may
be used for on-site dwelling/residential purposes. No utilities may be hooked
up to any recreational vehicles or travel trailers. Such vehicles may be parked
on an approved surface for repairs, sales and/or services with/from businesses
located in such district.
   H.   A District.
      1.   Set-Backs.
         a.   Front - Twenty-five (25) feet from the street line.
         b.   Interior Sides - Twenty-five (25) feet.
         c.   Side Street - Twenty-five (25) feet.
         d.   Rear - Twenty-five (25) feet.
      2.   Minimum Lot Width: 150 feet.
      3.   Minimum Lot Size: 43,500 square feet.
      4.   Height: No building or structure shall have a height in excess of 45
feet.
      5.   Maximum Lot Coverage. The maximum percent of the lot area which may
be covered by all buildings shall be 40%.
      6.   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers. No permanent or long-term
use of temporary dwellings such as recreational vehicles or travel trailers may
be used for on-site dwelling/residential purposes unless on a parcel ten (10)
acres or more that contains at least one single family residence. No long-term
living (over 10 days total) in the recreational vehicle or travel trailers and
no utilities may be hooked up to any recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
   I.   PD District. The Development Standards applicable to the district
governing the proposed base use of the property shall apply within this
district, i.e. if the proposed use of property within the District is a use
provided for in the C District the conditions and limitations applicable to the
C District shall apply to the property.
   J.   P-1 District.
      1.   Set-Backs.
         a.   Front - Twenty (20) feet from the street line.
         b.   Interior Sides - Five (5) feet.
         c.   Side Street - Ten (10) feet.
         d.   Rear - Twenty (20) feet.
      2.   Minimum Lot Width: 70 feet.
      3.   Minimum Lot Size: 7,000 square feet.
      4.   Height: No building or structure shall have a height in excess of 45
feet.
      5.   Maximum Lot Coverage. The maximum percent of the lot area which may
be covered by all buildings shall be 40%.
   K.   Signs. Signs shall be allowed in zoned areas within the following
limits:
 
                                            Max.
         Size       Lighted        Animated Height Setback
R-1      5 sq. ft.  No         No  4 ft.    2 ft.
R-2      5 sq. ft.  No         No  4 ft.    2 ft.
MF-1     20 sq. ft. Yes        No  6 ft.    2 ft.
C-1, C-2            40 sq. ft. Yes Yes      12 ft. 5 ft.
 
   The number of signs is limited to the number for streets on which a
residence has frontage. For business, public and industrial uses, the maximum
is one freestanding sign per zoned lot, or one freestanding sign per 100 feet
of street frontage. Zoned lots with multiple uses or multiple users shall
provide for common or shared use of the sign.
   In addition to the above setback requirements, signs must be located such
that at every street intersection and entrance way, there is a clear view
between heights of three feet and ten feet of all traffic lanes. No sign is
hereafter permitted to be erected or installed in any zoned area which creates
confusion, impairs vision or otherwise distracts drivers of automobiles using
the public streets. No signs shall be allowed in the public right-of-way except
public signs placed by a governmental entity, or informational signs posted by
a public utility concerning poles, lines, pipes or other facilities.
   Non-conforming signs may continue in use until they are removed, destroyed
or dilapidated as defined by appropriate City ordinance, whereupon they may
only be replaced with a sign meeting the sign standards herein.
   L.   Off-Street Parking. Vehicle parking shall be provided on the lots or
tract of land as follows:
   R-1 and R-2 Residential District - Minimum two (2) spaces per dwelling unit;
no parking shall be allowed within the front yard area except on the improved
driveway or surface (e.g. all-weather asphalt, concrete, or paving stones).
   MF-1 Residential District
   •   Structures with four (4) or fewer dwelling units, two (2) spaces per
unit; no parking shall be allowed within the front yard area except on the
improved driveway or surface (e.g. all-weather asphalt, concrete, or paving
stones).
   •   Structures with more than four (4) dwelling units, 1 ½ spaces per unit;
no parking shall be allowed within the front yard area except on the improved
driveway or surface (e.g. all-weather asphalt, concrete, or paving stones).
   C-1, Business District:
   •   Professional offices, 1 space per 200 S.F. of floor area.
   •   General business, 1 space per 400 S.F. of floor area.
   •   Restaurants, 1 space for each 4 seats in the restaurant.
   •   Warehouse, 1 space per 1000 S.F. of warehouse floor area.
   All other Districts -Adequate to accommodate the intended structure's use.
Recreational vehicles and/or travel trailers parked on a parcel ten (10) acres
or more in an A District shall be parked on a paved or all-weather surface such
as asphalt, concrete, or paving stones.
   M.   Fences.
      a.   Anyone erecting a fence within the city limits must apply for a
permit from the city.
      b.   No fencing may be located in the front yard of a residential
district; no fencing is permitted in the front or side street setback of all
other districts.
      c.   Any fencing installed adjacent to a public ROW shall be installed
with the finished (smooth) side facing the ROW.
      d.   All fences along a common property boundary shall be less than or
equal to eight (8) feet in height except as provided below.
      e.   Fences greater than eight (8) feet in height shall be allowed for
impeding access to hazardous or secured facilities including, but not limited
to, electrical substations and chemical or equipment storage yards. For high
security applications, barbed wire or razor wire (or equivalent) may be
installed above the eight (8) foot height limit but not to exceed a total of
ten (10) feet in height.
2023 S-13
      f.   No fence or other structure more than twenty percent (20%) solid or
more than three (3) feet high shall be located within twenty-five (25) feet of
the intersection of any rights-of-way.
      g.   All fences shall be constructed to maintain structural integrity
against natural forces such as wind, rain and temperature variations.
      h.   The finished side of all fences built to comply with screening
regulations shall face away from the screened object.
      i.   All posts shall have concrete footings.
      j.   Concrete wire, barbed wire and other types of fences prohibited. No
fence regulated by this section shall be constructed of plywood, sheet metal,
corrugated steel, fiberglass panel, concrete wire, hog wire, chicken wire,
barbed wire or any similar type wire which is less than 12 gauges, nor shall
any electric fence be used in any residentially zoned area of the city.
      k.   The maximum height of any permitted fence shall be eight feet for a
chain link or other type of security fence that does not obstruct visibility,
or six feet for a solid privacy fence.
      l.   Fences shall be constructed of customary urban fencing materials and
shall be aesthetically consistent with buildings and fences in the area. All
fences shall be constructed to maintain structural integrity against natural
forces such as wind, rain and temperature variations.
      m.   Any person, group of persons or corporation owning or having control
of any fence within the city shall be responsible to maintain the fence in a
safe and visibly presentable condition. All fencing shall be maintained in an
attractive state and shall not be allowed to lean, sag, warp or otherwise fall
into disrepair. Any missing, rotted, loose or broken pieces shall be replaced.
This shall include replacement of broken or defective boards, posts, wire,
wood, wrought iron, vinyl, brick, pierced brick, stone, mortar, blocks, wood or
other fence parts or a combination of some or all. This section requires owners
to remove, repair, or replace fences identified in violation that may cause the
fence to be unsafe or unsightly.
      n.   Existing fences are subject to inspection and may be tagged as
safety hazards or public nuisances if not adequately maintained. Should such
notification occur, the owner of the property has ninety days (90) to rectify.
Property owners or residents may seek a one-time ninety-day (90) extension from
the Chief of Police or designee.
      o.   Inspection upon completion. Upon completion of a fence constructed
under a permit issued by City Hall, an inspection shall be made thereof by the
building official or his designated representative. If the fence is constructed
in accordance with the provisions of the zoning ordinance, the building
official will issue written notice of acceptance to the permit holder. Any and
all fences in the city shall hereafter be constructed under the provisions of
this article and existing fences shall be maintained so as to comply with the
requirements at all times.
      p.   If any fencing is erected that obstructs access to a water meter
which causes an employee of the city to have to go through, over, or under said
obstruction to enable the employee access to the water meter, then the water
meter will be moved by a city employee at the expense of the customer with such
expense being added to the customer's subsequent water bill if not paid.
   N.   Pools. Guidelines for fencing around pools is in accordance with Tex.
Health and Safety Code, Title 9 Safety, Subtitle A Public Safety, Chapter 757,
Pool yard enclosure.
   O.   Accessory structures.
      a.   No accessory structure, excluding fences or walls, shall be closer
to any property line than the required front and side yard setbacks; however,
an accessory structure to a residential dwelling may be as close as five feet
to any rear property line.
      b.   An accessory structure shall not exceed 50% of the interior square
footage of the principal structure; however, if the interior square footage of
the principal structure is less than 1,000 square feet, the maximum accessory
structure shall not exceed 500 square feet. The combined sum of all structures
(principal and accessory) shall not exceed the maximum lot coverage under any
circumstance.
      c.   An accessory structure shall not exceed two stories or 25 feet in
height.
      d.   An accessory structure shall not be located in a required front
yard.
   P.   Recreational Vehicles and Travel Trailers. Recreational vehicles and
travel trailers, as defined in Section III, are not allowed in any district
except "A" on a parcel that contains at least 10 acres or more as well as has
at least one occupied single family home or in C-2 or I-1 or I-2. One
recreational vehicle or trailer may be placed, located, or parked either: a) on
a paved surface; or b) in a location where the trailer, or any part of the
trailer, is not visible from a public place or the public right-of-way. No long
term living in trailer. Long term is defined as anything over ten (10) days.
Such recreational vehicle or trailer may not be hooked up to utilities at any
time, but port-a-potties (or similar type portable commodes) may be located
nearby.
   Q.   Box cars and railroad cars. Box cars, shipping containers, and railroad
cars may not be located on residential lots and may not be used for occupancy
or for storage in any district.
   R.   Modular Components. Modular components shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Modular components must comply with the applicable building codes,
must be installed in accordance with the building permit issued for the modular
component, and must receive a certificate of occupancy before the modular
component may be occupied.
      2.   Modular components must have a value equal to or greater than the
median taxable value for each single-family dwelling located within 500 feet of
the lot on which the industrialized housing is proposed to be located, as
determined by the most recent certified tax appraisal roll for each county in
which the properties are located. "Value" means the taxable value of the
modular component and the lot after installation of the housing.
      3.   Modular components must comply with the following requirements:
         a.   Have exterior siding, roofing, roofing pitch, foundation fascia,
and fenestration compatible with the single-family dwellings located within 500
feet of the lot on which the modular component is proposed to be located;
         b.   Have exterior siding, roofing, roof pitch, foundation fascia, and
fenestration compatible with the single-family dwellings located within 500
feet of the lot on which the modular component is proposed to be located;
         c.   Comply with the building setbacks, side and rear yard offsets,
subdivision control, landscaping, square footage, and other site requirements
applicable to the zoning district in which the modular component is proposed to
be located;
         d.   Be securely fixed to a permanent foundation; and
         e.   All modules or modular components must bear an approved decal or
insignia indicating inspection by the state agency that regulates
industrialized housing.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
Section VI. Non-Conforming Uses.
   A.   General Policy. The general public, the City Council and the Commission
are directed to take note that nonconformities in the use and development of
land and buildings are to be avoided, or eliminated where now existing,
whenever and wherever possible, except:
      When necessary to preserve property rights established prior to the date
these regulations become effective as to the property in question; and
      When necessary to promote the general welfare and to protect the
character of the surrounding property.
   B.   Nonconforming Structures. Where a lawful structure exists on the
effective date of the adoption or amendment of this Ordinance, that could not
be built under the terms of this Ordinance by reason of restrictions on
permitted use, area, lot coverage, height, years, its locations on the lot, or
other requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be continued as
long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which
increases its structural nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof
may be altered to decrease its structural non-conformity.
      Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming portions of a
structure be damaged by any means to an extent of more than fifty (50) percent
of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with this ordinance.
      Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses. A nonconforming use may be continued as long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      No existing structure devoted to a nonconforming use shall be enlarged,
extended, constructed or reconstructed.
      The use of the structure shall only be changed to a use permitted in the
district in which it is located.
      A nonconforming use that has been discontinued may be resumed only if
there has been no other use of the premises or structure since the
nonconforming use was discontinued, and such use was not discontinued for a
period of ninety (90) days or more.
      Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building
which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of adoption
or amendment of this ordinance, but no such use shall be extended to any land
outside such building.
      Removal or destruction of a structure containing a nonconforming use
shall eliminate the nonconforming use status. Destruction for the purpose of
this subsection is defined as damage equal to more than fifty (50) percent of
the replacement cost of the structure.
      A nonconforming use shall terminate upon any sale or conveyance of the
property.
   D.   Repairs and Maintenance. On any nonconforming structure, or
nonconforming portion of a structure, containing a nonconforming use, repairs
and maintenance shall be performed to maintain the structure in compliance with
the electrical, plumbing and building codes; provided that such repairs and
maintenance shall be subject to the following conditions and limitations:
      No work may be done in any period of twelve (12) consecutive months on
ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of nonload-bearing walls,
fixtures, wiring or plumbing, to an extent exceeding twenty-five (25) percent
of the current replacement cost of such structure or nonconforming portion of
such structure.
      If fifty (50) percent or more of the nonconforming structure containing a
nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs
or maintenance, and is declared by a duly authorized official to be unsafe or
unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be restored,
repaired or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   E.   Exception. A mobile home or manufactured home lawfully located within
the City on the effective date of this ordinance, which is a nonconforming use
or structure, may be replaced with a manufactured home, subject to the
following conditions and requirements:
      1.   The replacement manufactured home is newer than the existing
manufactured or mobile home, is at least as large in living space as the prior
manufactured home, and meets all state law requirements for a manufactured
home;
      2.   The lot upon which the replacement manufactured home will be placed
has not been vacant for more than ninety days and the structure previously
located on the property immediately prior to a replacement manufactured home
being installed was a manufactured or mobile home;
      3.   The replacement authorized by this subsection E. is limited to a
single replacement, unless the manufactured or mobile home is being replaced
due to its destruction by fire or other natural disaster.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
Section VII. Administration.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
7.1   Organization and Appointment
   There is hereby created a Planning and Zoning Commission which shall be
organized, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council and
function as follows:
   a.   Membership: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of seven
(7) members who are residents of the City. Vacancies may be filled of any
member whose place becomes vacant for any cause in the same manner as the
original appointment was made.
   b.   Organization: The Commission shall meet on-call and shall designate the
time and place of its meetings. The Commission may adopt its own rules of
procedure and keep a record of its proceedings consistent when the provisions
of this ordinance and the requirements of law.
   c.   Quorum and Compensation: A quorum for the conduct of business shall
consist of three members and/or alternate members of commission. The members
shall serve without compensation, except for reimbursement of authorized
expenses attendant to the performance of their duties.
7.2   Duties and Authority
   The Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby charged with the duty and
invested with the authority to:
   a.   Formulate and recommend to the City Council for its adoption a city
plan for the orderly growth and development of the city and its environs and
from time to time recommend such changes in the plan as it finds will
facilitate the movement of people and goods, and the health, recreation,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the city.
   b.   Formulate a zoning plan as may be deemed best to carry out the goals of
the city plan; hold public hearings and make recommendations to the City
Council relating to the creation, amendment, and implementation of zoning
regulations and districts as authorized under state law.
   c.   Exercise all powers of a commission as to approval or disapproval of
plans, plats, or replats as authorized under state law.
   d.   Study and recommend the location, extension, and planning of public
rights-of-way, parks, or other public places, and on the vacating or closing of
same.
   e.   Study and make recommendations regarding the general design and
location of public buildings, bridges, viaducts, street fixtures, and other
structures and appurtenances.
   f.   Initiate, in the name of the city, proposals for the opening, vacating,
or closing of public rights-of-way, parks, or other public places and for the
change of zoning district boundaries on the areawide basis.
   g.   Formulate and recommend to the City Council for its adoption policies
and regulations consistent with the adopted city plan governing the location
and/or operation of utilities, public facilities, and services owned or under
the control of the city.
   h.   Submit once a year a progress report to the City Council summarizing
the activities for the past year and a proposed work program for the coming
year.
Additional Provisions for Planning and Zoning Commission
   A.   Creation of a Building Site.
      No permit for the construction of a building or buildings upon any tract
or plot shall be issued until a building site, building tract or building lot
has been created as follows:
      The lot or tract is part of the plat of record, properly approved by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, and filed in the Plat Records of Henderson
County, Texas.
   B.   Platting Property Not Permanently Zoned.
      The Planning and Zoning Commission of the City shall not approve any plat
of a subdivision within the city limits of the City until the area covered by
the proposed plat shall have been permanently zoned by the City.
      The Planning and Zoning Commission of the City shall not approve any plat
of any subdivision in any area where a petition or ordinance for annexation or
a recommendation for annexation to the City is pending before the City Council.
   C.   Variances.
      Whenever the tract design or plan is of such unusual size, shape,
topography, or arrangement, or is surrounded by such development or conditions,
that the strict application of the provisions of the ordinance would result in
substantial hardship, or where special planning of complex integrated
facilities would promote health and welfare, the Board of Adjustments may vary
modify, or waive such requirements to the end that the facilities may be
developed consistent with the public safety. The Board shall have no authority
to change any provision of this Ordinance and its jurisdiction is limited to
hardship and borderline cases which may arise from time to time.
   D.   Enforcement.
      1.   Enforcement of this ordinance shall be the duty of the properly
appointed zoning official, as appointed by the City Council. No oversight or
dereliction on the part of the zoning official or on the part of any official
or employee of the town or county shall legalize, authorize, or excuse the
violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance.
      2.   Building Permits - The issuance of building permits shall be the
duty of the zoning official, and the construction, alteration or repair,
removal or reconstruction of any structure or any part thereof as provided or
as restricted herein, shall not be hereafter commenced until after the issuance
of a written permit for the same is issued by said zoning official. Said
building permit shall be valid for a period of one year unless otherwise noted
by the zoning official. The zoning official, in the proper exercise of his
duties, shall have the right of entering into a building, dwelling, apartment,
apartment house or other building or premises, subject to this ordinance in
accordance with the terms hereof, during all reasonable hours, and upon
presentation of proper identification to the owner, agent or tenant in charge
of such property.
      3.   When applications for building permits are requested which do not
comply with the zoning ordinance, the zoning official has the duty to advise
the applicant(s) of their right to request a hearing by the Board of Adjustment
for settlement of any dispute which arises over the enforcement of this
ordinance. The zoning official shall have the duty to require each applicant
for a building permit to furnish a site plan, drawn to scale, showing the name
of the person making the application, the actual dimensions of the lot to be
built upon as shown by a survey, the size, shape, and location of the building
to be erected and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of this ordinance. The zoning official bas the further duty to
maintain a record of applications and plats, and to make these records and
plats available for public inspection.
      4.   After passage of this ordinance, no building construction, converted
or structurally altered shall be used, occupied or changed in use, and no land
shall be used, until a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued. A Certificate
of Occupancy shall not be issued unless the structure is complete and complies
with the City's zoning, building, and subdivision regulations. The zoning
official shall maintain records of Certificates of Occupancy. Existing non-
conforming uses shall be issued a Certificate of Occupancy, which will
demonstrate that the non-conforming use existed prior to the passage of this
ordinance and is therefore not an illegal use.
   E.   Interpretations.
      In interpreting and applying the provisions of this Ordinance, they shall
be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this Ordinance to interfere or abrogate, or annul any easements,
covenants, or other agreements between parties, except where this Ordinance
imposes a greater restriction; then this Ordinance shall control.
   F.   Board of Adjustments.
      A Board of Adjustments in hereby established in accordance with the
provisions of Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code § 211.008, as amended, regarding the zoning
of cities and with the powers and duties as provided in said Code. The said
Board of Adjustment may, in appropriate cases, and subject to appropriate
conditions and safeguards, make special exceptions to the terms of the
Ordinance in harmony with its general purposes and intent, and in accordance
with general or specific rules therein contained.
      The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members and two alternates,
each to be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council, for a term
of two years and removable for cause by the appointed authority upon written
charges and after a public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
term of any member whose term becomes vacant for any cause, in the same manner
as the original appointment was made. Three (3) members shall serve until
January 1 of odd-numbered years, as heretofore appointed, and two (2) members,
as heretofore appointed, shall serve until January I of even-numbered years,
and thereafter each member reappointed for each new appointee shall serve for a
full term of two (2) years unless removed as hereinabove provided. The City
Council may also appoint two (2) alternate members of the board who shall serve
in the absence of one or more of the regular members when requested to do so by
the chairman of the Board, so that all cases to be heard by the Board will
always be heard by a minimum number of four (4) members. These alternate
members, when appointed, shall serve for the same period as the regular
members, which is for a term of two (2) years, and any vacancy shall be filled
in the same manner and they shall be subject to removal by the same means and
under the same procedures as the regular members. All members of the Board of
Adjustment must live within the City limits.
      Where there is no Board, the City Council shall serve in its capacity.
      The jurisdiction of the Board of Adjustment shall include the following:
         Permit changes to the yard, parking, lot size, sign or other
development standards when the following conditions are met: 1) the changes are
necessary for the public welfare, 2) the literal enforcement of the terms of
this ordinance create an unnecessary an significant hardship, of a type which
is not self-imposed, and 3) where appropriate uses of surrounding property will
not be adversely affected;
         Permit the enlargement of extension of a non-conforming building,
provided this does not prevent the property from becoming a conforming use
within a reasonable time, and does not substantially injure the use of
surrounding property.
   G.   Appeals.
      Appeals from the ruling of the zoning official to the Board of Adjustment
may be taken by any person aggrieved, or by any officer, department, board or
bureau of the City. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the zoning official from
whom the appeals is taken, and with the Board of Adjustment, a Notice of Appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. The zoning official from whom the appeal is
taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action of the appeal was taken. The Board of Adjustment
shall have the following power:
      To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the zoning official in
the enforcement of this Ordinance or any Ordinance pursuant thereto.
      In exercising the above-mentioned powers, such Board may, in conformity
to the provisions of this Ordinance, reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may
modify the order requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may
make such order requirement, decision, or determination that ought to be made
and shall have all the powers of the zoning official form whom the appeal as
taken. Any person, or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
by the Board of Adjustment or any taxpayer or any officer, department, board or
bureau of the City, may present to a court of record, a petition, duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal in whole, or in part, and
specifying the grounds for the illegality. Such a petition shall be presented
to the court within the timeframe required by Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code Ch. 211, as
amended from time to time.
   Procedure: Appeals may be taken to and before the Zoning Board of Adjustment
by any person aggrieved, or by any officer, department, board or bureau in the
city. Such appeal shall be made by filing in the office of the City Secretary a
notice of appeal and specifying the grounds thereof. The office or department
from which the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all of the
papers constituting the record from which the action appealed was taken.
   Stay of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the Building Inspector shall certify to the
Zoning Board of Adjustment that, by reason of facts in the certificate, a stay
would cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case proceedings shall
not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted or by
a court of equity, after notice to the office from whom the appeal was taken.
   Notice of Hearing on Appeal: The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the appeal or other matter referred to it, and shall mail notices of
such hearing to the petitioner and to the owners of property lying within two
hundred (200) feet of any point of the lot or portion thereof on which a
variation is desired, and to all other persons deemed by the Board to be
affected thereby, such owners and persons being determined according to the
current tax rolls of the City. Depositing of such written notice in the mail
shall be deemed sufficient compliance therewith.
   Decision by Board: The Board shall decide the appeal within a reasonable
time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
The Board may reverse or affirm wholly or partly or may modify the order,
requirements, decision, or determination as in its opinion ought to be made in
the premises, and to that end, shall have all powers of the officer or
department from whom the appeal is taken.
   H.   Variances.
      The Board shall have the power to authorize upon appeal in specific cases
such variances from the terms of this ordinance as will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this ordinance will result in unnecessary hardship and so
that the spirit of this ordinance shall be observed and substantial justice
done, including the following:
      Permit a variance in the yard requirements of any district where there
are unusual and practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the carrying
out of the provisions due to an irregular shape of the lot or topographical or
other conditions, provided such variance will not seriously affect any
adjoining property or the general welfare.
      Authorize, upon appeal, whenever a property owner can show that a strict
application of the terms of this ordinance relating to the construction or
alteration of buildings or structures will impose upon him unusual and
practical difficulties or particular hardship, such variances from the strict
application of the terms of this ordinance as are in harmony with its own
general purpose and intent, but only when the Board is satisfied that granting
of such variation will not merely serve as a convenience to the applicant, but
will alleviate some demonstrable and unusual hardship or difficulty so great as
to warrant a variance from the Comprehensive Plan as established by this
ordinance and at the same time, the surrounding property will be properly
protected.
      The Board shall have the power to hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged there is error of law in any order, requirements, decision or
determination made by the Building Inspector in the enforcement of this
ordinance. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Board shall have, in
addition, the following specific powers:
      •   To permit the erection and use of a building or the use of premises
for railroads if such uses are in general conformance with the Master Plan and
present no conflict or nuisance to adjacent properties.
      •   To permit a public utility or public service or structure in any
district, or a public utility or public service building of a ground area and
of a height at variance with those provided for in the district in which such
public utility or public service building is permitted to be located, when
found reasonably necessary for the public health, convenience, safety, or
general welfare.
      •   To grant a permit for the extension of a use, height or area
regulation into an adjoining district, where the boundary line of the district
divides a lot in a single ownership on the effective date of this ordinance.
      •   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has
been damaged by explosion, fire, act of God, or the public enemy, to the extent
of more than fifty percent (50%) of its fair market value, where the Board
finds some compelling necessity requiring a continuance of the nonconforming
use.
      •   To waive or reduce the parking and loading requirements in any of the
districts, when (i) the character or use of the building is such as to make
unnecessary the full provision of parking or loading facilities; or (ii) when
such regulations would impose an unreasonable hardship upon the use of the lot.
The Board shall not waive or reduce such requirements merely for the purpose of
granting an advantage or a convenience.
      A written application for variance shall be submitted together with the
required fee, accompanied by an accurate legal description, maps, site plans,
drawings and any necessary data, demonstrating:
      a)   that special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to
other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district;
      b)   that literal interpretation of the provisions of this ordinance
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this ordinance;
      c)   that the special conditions and circun1stances do not result from
the actions of the applicant;
      d)   that granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this ordinance to other
lands, structures or buildings in the same district; and
      e)   no nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or buildings
in the same district and no permitted use of lands, structures, or buildings in
other districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
   I.   Process, Procedures and Duties:
   Hearings: The hearings of the Board shall be public. The Board shall hear
the intervention of any owner of property adjacent to, in the rear of, or
across the street from a lot as to which the granting of any permit is pending,
and shall also hear any other parties in interest. All hearings are to be heard
by at least four (4) members of the Board.
   Meetings: Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times as the
Board may determine. Special meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of
the chairman or at the written request of two regular members of the Board, or
city staff, and said request to be submitted to the Chairman.
   Rules and Regulations: The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such vote, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the City Secretary and shall be public record. The Board shall act by
resolution in which four (4) members must occur. The Board shall adopt from
time to time such additional rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to
carry into effect the provisions of the ordinance, and shall furnish a copy of
the same to the Zoning Administrator and the Building Inspector, all of which
rules and regulations shall operate uniformly in all cases. All of its
resolutions and orders shall be in accordance therewith.
   Powers and Duties of Board
      Appeals Based on Error: The Board shall have the power to hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged there is error of law in any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by an administrative official of the city of the
enforcement of this ordinance.
      Special Exceptions: The Board shall have the power to hear and decide
special exceptions to the terms of this ordinance upon which the Board is
required to pass as follows:
      Permit the erection and use [of] a building or the use of premises for
railroads if such uses are in general conformity with the Master Plan and
present no conflict or nuisance to adjacent properties.
      Permit a public utility or public service or structure in any district,
or a public utility or public service building of a ground area and of a height
at variance with those provided for in the district in which such public
service building is permitted to be located, when found reasonably necessary
for the public health, convenience, safety, or general welfare.
      Grant a permit for the extension of a use, height, or area regulation
into an adjoining district where the boundary line of the district divides a
lot in a single ownership on the effective date of this ordinance.
      Permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has been
damaged by explosion, fire, act of God, or the public enemy, to the extent of
more than fifty percent (50%) of its fair market value, where the Board finds
some compelling necessity requiring a continuance of the nonconforming use and
primary purpose of continuing the nonconforming use is not to continue a
monopoly.
      Waive or reduce the parking and loading requirements of any of the
districts, whenever the character or use of the building is such as to make
unnecessary the full provision of parking or loading facilities, or where such
regulations would impose an unreasonable hardship upon the use of the lot, as
contrasted with merely granting an advantage or a convenience.
   Limitation on Reapplications: When the Board has denied a proposal, no new
applications of similar nature shall be accepted by the Board or scheduled for
twelve (12) months after the date of Board denial. Applications which have been
withdrawn at or before the Board meeting may be resubmitted at any time for
hearing before the Board.
   Vote of Four Members Required: The concurring vote of four members of the
Board is necessary to:
      (a)   reverse an order, requirement, decision or determination of an
administrative official;
      (b)   decide in favor of an applicant on a matter on which the Board is
required to pass; or
      (c)   authorize a variation from the terms of a zoning ordinance.
   Changes
   The Board shall have no authority to change any provisions of this ordinance
and its jurisdiction is limited to hardship and borderline cases which may
arise from time to time. The Board may not change the district designation of
any land either to a more or less restrictive zone.
   It is the intent of this ordinance that all questions of interpretation and
enforcement shall be first presented to the administrative official, that such
questions shall be presented to the Board only on appeal from the decision of
the Building Official and that recourse from the decisions of the Zoning Board
of Adjustment shall be to the courts as provided by the laws of the State of
Texas.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
Section VIII. Amendment - Petitions and Limitations.
   Any person or corporation having a proprietary interest in any property may
petition the City Council for a change or amendment for the provisions of this
ordinance or the Planning and Zoning Commission may on its own motion or on
request from the City Council, institute study and proposal for changes and
amendments in the public interest.
   The Council may from time to time amend, supplement, or change by ordinance
the boundaries of the districts or the regulations herein established as
provided by the statutes of the State of Texas.
   Before taking action on any proposed amendment, supplement or change, the
governing body shall submit the same to the Planning and Zoning Commission for
its recommendation and report.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing on any
application for any amendment or change prior to making its recommendation and
report to the City Council. Written notice of all public hearings before the
Planning and Zoning Commission on a proposed amendment or change shall be sent
to all owners of real property lying within two hundred (200) feet of the
property on which the change is requested. Such notice shall be given not less
than eleven (11) days before the date set for hearing by posting such notice
properly addressed and postage-paid to each taxpayer as the ownership appears
on the last approved City tax roll.
   A public hearing shall be held by the governing body before adopting any
proposed amendment, supplement or change. Notice of such hearing shall be given
by publication in the official publication of the City of Trinidad stating the
time and place of such hearing, which time shall not be earlier than sixteen
(16) days from the date of publication.
   Unless a proposed amendment, supplement or change has been approved by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, or if a protest against such proposed
amendment, supplement or change has been filed with the City Secretary, duly
signed and acknowledged by the owner(s) of twenty (20) percent or more either
of the area or the lots included in such a proposed change or those immediately
adjacent to the area subject to the proposed zoning change and extending two
hundred (200) feet therefrom, such amendment shall not become effective except
by a three-fourths vote of the governing body. The land area shall be computed
in accordance with Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code Ch. 211, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
Section IX. Violations and Penalties.
   The owner or agent of the building or premises in or upon which a violation
of any provision of this Ordinance has been committed or shall exist, or the
lessee or tenant of an entire building, or entire premises in or upon which
violations have been committed, or shall exist, or the agent's architect,
building contractor or any other person, firm or corporation, who commits,
takes part, or assists in any violation or who maintains the building or
premises in or upon in which some violation exists, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished by fine, not-to-exceed
$2000.00. Each and every day that such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
   The City Council of the City of Trinidad realizes that some existing
buildings and land uses in the City of Trinidad may be in conflict with the
requirements of this proposal. These non-conforming uses may continue, subject
to the provisions of
Section VI hereof.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans, construction
or designated use of a building actually under construction at the time of the
passage of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
Attachment A. Setbacks.
ADD IMAGE
 
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 10-26-2021)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
152.01   Adopted by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City of Trinidad Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance is adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if appearing in total.
(Ord. 2009-001, passed 1-20-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-19-2010)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City of Trinidad adopts in full the Subdivision Code found in Appendix A
to this chapter, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
APPENDIX A: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE
ARTICLE I. GENERAL
   
Section 1.01   Title
   
Section 1.02   Definitions
   
Section 1.03   Purpose
   
Section 1.04   Authority
   
Section 1.05   Jurisdiction
   
Section 1.06   Policy
   
Section 1.07   Application
   
Section 1.08   Exemptions
   
Section 1.09   Enforcement of Regulations
ARTICLE II. REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES
   
Section 2.01   General Procedure
   
Section 2.02   Requests for Extension of Approval Deadline or Waivers of
Procedures
   
Section 2.03   Alternative Review Procedure; Waiver of Approval Procedure
ARTICLE III. PLANS AND PLATS
   
Section 3.01   Concept Plan
   
Section 3.02   Preliminary Plat
   
Section 3.03   Construction Plans
   
Section 3.04   Final Plat
   
Section 3.05   Amended Plats
   
Section 3.06   Short Form Final Plats
   
Section 3.07   Vacation of Undeveloped Subdivision and Replats
   
Section 3.08   Notification Requirement for Certain Replats
ARTICLE IV. DESIGN STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS
   
Section 4.01   Generally
   
Section 4.02   Drainage Improvements
   
Section 4.03   Transportation Improvements
   
Section 4.04   Water Utility Improvements
   
Section 4.05   Wastewater Utility Improvements
   
Section 4.06   Blocks and Lots
   
Section 4.07   Easements
   
Section 4.08   Park Land Dedication
   
Section 4.09   Water and Wastewater Services in the ETJ
ARTICLE V. IMPROVEMENTS
   
Section 5.01   Completion of Improvements
ARTICLE VI. ADMINISTRATION
   
Section 6.01   General
   
Section 6.02   Voluntary Annexation
   
Section 6.03   Variances
   
Section 6.04   Conditions for Issuing a Building Permit, Issuing a Site
Development Permit, or Accepting Improvements
   
Section 6.05   Fees
   
Section 6.06   Amendments
   
Section 6.07   Violations
   
Section 6.08   Enforcement
ARTICLE I. GENERAL
Section 1.01. Title.
   This Ordinance shall be known as the Subdivision Ordinance for the City of
Trinidad, Henderson County, Texas.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 1.02. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Ordinance, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning. Words used in the present tense include
the future tense. Words sed in the plural number include the singular, and
words in the singular include the plural. The ord "shall" is always mandatory.
The word "herein" means in this Ordinance. The word "regulations" means the
provisions of any applicable ordinance, rule, regulation or policy. The word
"person" means any human being or legal entity and includes a corporation, a
partnership, and an incorporated or unincorporated association. The words "used
or occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include
the words intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied.
   Access means a way of approaching or entering a property.
   Adjacent means abutting and directly connected to or bordering.
   Administratively Complete means a plan or plat tendered to the City
Secretary with all of the appropriate fees, documents, data and information
required in this Ordinance that has received an opinion from the City Engineer
that the plan or plat complies with the subdivision requirements. The City
Engineer shall consult with the City Administrator to ensure completeness of
the plan or plat prior to issuing an opinion.
   Alley means a minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which gives a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   Alternative Review Procedure means the procedures set forth in Section 2.03
that modify the Plan or Plat application review process as described in Section
2.03.
   Amended Plat means a plat that is modified or amended only to correct one or
more specific, listed items or errors set forth herein, or in Tex. Loc. Gov't.
Code § 212.016, as amended.
   Applicant means a person applying for plan or plat approval uncle this
Ordinance.
   Application refers to an application for a plan or plat approval under this
Ordinance, which includes the plan or plat package, and unless context dictates
otherwise, will include the Resubmittal Application for a plan or plat.
   Approval means the final approval in a series of required actions. For
instance, the approval date of a plat requiring approval of the Commission and
then the Council is the date of Council approval.
   Arterial Street means a street designed to provide a connection between
major arterial streets.
   As-Built-Plans means a set of certified construction plans specifying how
the public improvements required for the subdivision were actually constructed.
   Attendant Documents means either materials needed to address the specific
requirements of this Ordinance which are not shown on plats or plans, or any
information which the subdivider feels necessary to explain the submittal.
   Block means a parcel of land, intended to be used for urban purposes, which
is entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad right-of-way,
public walks, parks or green strips, rural land, drainage channels, or a
combination thereof.
   Bond means any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to the City Council.
   Buffer means a barrier constructed of wood, masonry, vegetation and/or other
landscape material in such a manner that adjacent uses will be separated to
such a degree that objectionable noise, heat, glare, visual clutter, dust, loss
of privacy, air circulation, and other negative externalities shall be abated.
   Bufferyard means a land area used to separate one (1) use from another or to
shield, reduce or block noise, lights, or other nuisances. Bufferyards may be
required to include fences, walls, berms, as well as shrubs and trees.
   Buffer Strip means a band of land established to protect one (1) type of
land use from the adverse effects of another incompatible use.
   Building or Setback Line means a line that marks the setback distance from
the building property line, and establishes the minimum required front, side or
rear yard space of a building plot. No structure, as defined in this section,
can be constructed or placed within the setback line or building setback line.
   Building Permit means a permit issued by the City of Trinidad which is
required prior to commencing construction or reconstruction of any structure.
   Caliper means the trunk diameter of a tree at three (3) feet above natural
grade.
   Centerline, when referring to a waterway or drainage, means the centerline
of the waterway and refers to existing topographically defined channels. If not
readily liscensible, the centerline shall be determined by (first) the low flow
line, or (second) the center of the two-year floodplain.
   City means the City of Trinidad, Texas.
   City Administrator means the chief administrative officer of the City of
Trinidad, Texas or his/her designated representative.
   City Council or Council means the Trinidad City Council.
   City Engineer means the City Engineer for the City or his/her designated
representative.
   City Limits means within the incorporated boundaries of the City.
   City Park means land area dedicated to the City of Trinidad for general
public use. The parkland area must consist of a minimum of two acres. The park
may contain public drainage easements or drainage facilities designed to meet
development regulations fo the park only. For purposes of parkland dedication,
public/private drainage easements, detention ponds, nature preserves, open
spaces, utility easements or other similar dedicated public uses designed to
serve areas outside the park shall not be included in calculating parkland
dedication requirements. City Parks must have a minimum of three-quarters of an
acre open space, shaded areas for picnic tables and other public gathering
areas with seating. Other amenities may include or provide for future locations
for restrooms, drinking fountains, lighting, sport courts, ballfield,
playscapes, and hike-and-bike trails. City Parks should be located such that
the overall parkland maybe increased with dedication of parkland from
development on adjacent properties. Areas in a City Park designed to
accommodate public venues, including vendors, sound amplification and lighting
shall be buffered from adjacent residential properties by a combination of
landscaping and setbacks.
   City Staff means the officers, employees and agents of the City assigned and
designated from time to time by the City Administrator and/or City Council,
including but not limited to the City Engineer, to review and/or comment and
report on construction and development plans.
   City Standard Details and Specifications means a library of City approved
drawings and technical data representing typical drainage, transportation,
erosion and sedimentation control, and utility appurtenances to be constructed
for City acceptance.
   Collector Street means a street that collects traffic from local streets and
serves as the most direct route to a major or minor arterial street.
   Commission means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City, or the City
Council if a Planning and Zoning Commission is not operational.
   Concept Plan means a generalized plan that meets the requirements of this
Ordinance and that indicates the boundaries of a tract or tracts under common
ownership and identifies the purpose of the proposed development and the
proposed land use, general lot or parcel layout, community use or public areas,
and street alignments.
   Construction Plans means the maps, drawings, plans and specifications
indicating the proposed location and design of improvements to be installed as
part of a development.
   Contiguous means adjacent property whose property lines are shared or are
separated by only a street, alley, easement or right-of-way.
   Corner Lot means a lot located at the intersection of and abutting on two
(2) or more streets.
   County means Henderson County, Texas.
   County Appraisal District means the Henderson County Appraisal District.
   Critical Root Zone means a circular area around a tree equal to one (1) foot
in radius for each one (1) inch caliper, and the center of the circular area
located at the trunk.
   Crossfall means the transverse slope as related to a given longitudinal
slope and measured by the rise-to-run ratio.
   Crosswalk means a strip of land dedicated for public use and which is
reserved across a lot or block for the purpose of providing pedestrian access
to adjacent.
   Cul-de-Sac means a minor street having one (1) end open to vehicular traffic
and having one (1) closed end terminated by a permanent turnaround.
   Dedication means the grant of an interest in property for public use.
   Design Storm means a probable rainfall event the frequency of which is
specified in periods of years and which is used to design drainage facilities
and determine flood elevations.
   Developed Area means that portion of a lot, easement, or parcel upon which a
building, structure, pavement or other improvements have been placed.
   Developer means the legal owner of land to be improved and/or subdivided or
his/her authorized representative.
   Development means a subdivision of land as defined herein or he construction
or placement of any buildings, utilities, access, roads or other structures,
excavation, mining, dredging, grading, filling, clearing or removing
vegetation, and the deposit of refuse, waste or fill. Lawn and yard care,
including mowing of tall weeds and grass, gardening, tree care and maintenance,
removal of trees or other vegetation damaged by natural forces, and ranching
and farming shall not constitute development. Utility, drainage, and street
repair, and any construction, maintenance and installation which does not
require land disturbance or result in additional impervious cover shall also
not constitute development.
   Development Plan means a scaled drawing representing an area of land to be
improved/developed and indicating the legal boundary of said property and the
nature and extent of all existing and proposed improvements to said project.
   Double Frontage Lot means a lot which runs through a block fro street to
street and which abuts two (2) or more streets.
   Drainageway see Waterway.
   Drainfield means private sewage facility, disposal area, trench or bed
utilized for final wastewater disposal.
   Drive Approach means a paved surface connecting the street to a front lot
line.
   Driveway means the surface connecting a drive approach with a parking space,
parking lot, loading dock or garage.
   Dwelling Unit means a residential unit designed to accommodate one (1)
household.
   Easement means a grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land
for stated purposes.
   Environment means the aggregate of social and physical conditions that
influence the life of the individual and/or community.
   Escrow Funds means a deposit of cash or other approved security with the
local government or approved bank or other financial institution in lieu of a
performance or maintenance bond.
   ETJ Limits means the limits of the City's extraterritorial jurisdiction as
granted under Tex. Chapter 42, Local Government Code.
   Filed or Filing Date means, with respect to plan or plat, the date at plan
or plat are determined to be complete and are accepted for review by the City.
With respect to plats or plans that must be acted upon by the Council after
action by the Commission, the Filing Date for the purposes of the deadline for
Council action shall be the date of Commission action.
   Final Plat means a map of a land subdivision prepared in a form suitable for
filing of record with necessary affidavits, dedications and acceptances, and
with complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defining lots and blocks,
streets, alleys, public areas and other dimensions of land.
   Floodplain means channel of a waterway and the adjacent land area subject to
inundation during the design storm.
   Floodway means channel of a waterway and the adjacent land area as that must
be reserved in order to discharge the design storm without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation.
   Front Yard means a space extending the full width of the lot between any
building setback line and the front lot line and measured perpendicular to the
building to the closest point to the front lot line.
   Frontage means that side of a lot, parcel or tract of land abutting a street
right-of-way and ordinarily regarded as the frontal orientation of the lot.
   Governing Body means the City Council of the City of Trinidad, Texas.
   Grade means the slope of a road, street, other public way or utility line
specified in terms of percent (%); the topographic relief of a parcel of land;
the average elevation at ground level of the buildable area of a lot or parcel
of land.
   Grading means any stripping, cutting, filling or stockpiling of earth or
land, including the land in its cut or filled condition.
   Ground Cover means low growing plants planted in such a manner as to form a
continuous cover over the ground, such as liriope, low growing varieties of
honeysuckle, confederate jasmine, English ivy or others.
   Impervious Cover means roads, parking areas, buildings, swimming pools,
rooftop landscapes and other construction limiting the absorption of water by
covering the natural land surface; this shall include, but not be limited to,
all streets and pavement within the development.
   Improvements means any street, alley, roadway, barricade, sidewalk, bikeway,
pedestrian way, water line system, wastewater system, storm drainage network,
public parkland, landscaping, or other facility or portion thereof for which
the local government may ultimately assume responsibility for maintenance and
operation or which may affect an improvement for which local government
responsibility is established.
   Individual On-Site Wastewater System or Private Sewage Facility means all
systems and methods used for the disposal of sewage, other than organized
sewage disposal systems. Private sewage facilities are usually composed of
three (3) units: the generating unit (the residence, institution, etc.),
treatment unit, and the disposal unit (the drainfield that may be an absorption
trench or bed, or an evapotranspiration bed). A Private Sewage Facility inc des
a septic tank, seepage tile sewage disposal system or any other on-lot sewage
treatment device approved and installed in accordance with all local, state and
federal laws and regulations.
   Industrial means non-residential use of any site involved in manufacturing
and/or external storage of goods; any site generating significant negative
externalities such as noise, dust, glare, etc. and/or any site where hazardous
materials are stored and/or generated.
   Interior Lot means a lot other than a corner lot and, bounded by a street on
only one (1) side.
   Landscape Development means trees, shrubs, ground cover, vines or grass
installed in planting areas.
   Legal Lot means either a lot recorded in the Official County Records
pursuant to and in compliance with the subdivision regulations in effect at the
time of its creation, or a tract of land having existed in its present
configuration prior to January 1, 1955.
   Legally Platted Lot means a lot which is part of a subdivision approved by
the City and recorded in the Official County Records.
   Letter of Credit means a letter from a bank or other reputable creditor
acceptable to the City that guarantees to the City that upon failure of the
subdivider to fulfill any improvement requirements that at the City's request,
funds will be provided to the City to complete the specified improvements.
   Living Unit Equivalent (LUE) means a unit of measure which represents the
quantity of water utilized and wastewater generated on an average annual daily
basis from a single-family, detached residence of average size and occupancy
which is the standardized measure used for service units. Local Health District
means the Henderson County Health District Local Street means a street designed
for the sole purpose of providing access.
   Lot means a subdivision of a block or other parcel intended as a unit for
transfer of ownership, or for development, or for occupancy and/or use.
   Major Arterial Street means a street designed to provide connections between
municipalities or major highways.
   Master Plan means the overall development plan for the community which has
been officially adopted to provide long-range development policies including
all specified individual elements thereof among which are the plans for mean
land intensities; land subdivision; circulation; and community facilities,
utilities and services; and, if none, means professional urban planning and
engineering practices.
   Minor Arterial Street means a street designed to provide a connection
between major arterial streets.
   Minor Street means a local street designed primarily for access to abutting
residential properties. A minor street does not include a street designed or
required to be designed for through traffic.
   Municipal Authority means the entity responsible for approving plats or
plans governed by this Ordinance. The Commission is responsible for approving
Concept Plans, Preliminary Plats, and Final Plats. The City Council is
responsible for approving Concept Plans. The City Engineer is responsible for
approving Amended Plats and Construction Plans.
   Multifamily Residence means a single structure designed to accommodate four
(4) or more households.
   Natural Channel means the topography of a waterway prior to construction,
installation of improvements or any regrading.
   Natural Drainage means a storm water runoff conveyance system not altered by
development.
   Natural State means substantially the same conditions of the land which
existed prior to its development, including but not limited to, the same type,
quality, quantity and distribution of soils, ground cover, vegetation and
topographic features.
   Neighborhood means the area of the City characterized by residential land
uses which is bounded by physical (such as river, major street, back of access)
and/or political features (such as voting districts, subdivision boundaries).
   Neighborhood Park means a privately owned parcel of land, within a
subdivision, dedicated solely for recreational uses and maintained by the
residents of said subdivision.
   Official County Records means the Official Records of Henderson County,
Texas.
   Off-Site Improvements means any required improvement which lies outside of
the property being developed.
   One Hundred-Year Floodplain means that flood which has a probability of
occurring once in a 100-year period or a one percent (1%) chance in any given
year.
   Overland Drainage means stormwater runoff which is not confined by any
natural or man-made channel such as a creek, drainage ditch, storm sewer, or
the like.
   Parent Tract means tract or lot as described by deed or plat, which includes
one (1) or more lots that are being subdivided.
   Plan or Plat. The phrase "plan or plat" or "plat or plan" when used in this
Ordinance refers to Concept Plans, Preliminary Plats, Construction Plans, Final
Plat , Minor Plats, Short Form Final Plats, and Amending Plats. Specifically,
the term "plan" refers to Construction Plans and the term "plat" refers to
Concept Plans, Preliminary Plats, Final Plat, Short Form Final Plat, or Amended
Final Plat.
   Planned Development District (PDD) means a special district established by
the City Council in accordance with the City's Zoning Ordinance.
   Planning and Zoning Commission means the City of Trinidad Planning and
Zoning Commission. Planting Area means any area designed for landscape planting
having a minimum of ten (10) square feet of actual plantable area and a minimum
inside dimension on any side of eighteen (18) inches.
   Playscape means any structure permanently anchored to the ground that is
designed for recreational purposes. Sports courts such as basketball or tennis
courts are not considered playscapes.
   Preliminary Plat means a map of a proposed land subdivision showing the
character and proposed layout of the property in sufficient detail to indicate
the suitability of the proposed subdivision of land.
   Primary Structure means a structure in which the principal use of the lot is
conducted. For example, for single-family residential lots, the house is the
primary structure.
   Privacy Fence means an opaque fence or screen at least six feet (6') in
height. A fence shall be considered opaque if it is made of opaque materials
and constructed so that gaps in the fence do not exceed one-half-inch (½").
Fences using boards placed on alternating sides of fence runners shall be
considered opaque if the boards overlap at least one-half-inch 1 l/2").
   Public means, with respect to land and interests in land within the city
limits, the City; and, with respect to land and interests in land within the
ETJ limits, the general public.
   Public Use means places of non-commercial public assembly or administrative
functions where the primary activity is contained within a building(s),
including but not limited to churches, schools and government buildings.
   Rear Yard means a space extending across the full width of the lot between
the principal building and the rear lot line and measured perpendicular to the
building to the closest point of the near rear lot line.
   Regulatory 100-Year Flood Plain means the one hundred-year flood plain as
defined by the Federal Emergency Management Act (FEMA).
   Regulatory Floodway means that area designated by FEMA or subsequent
Federal, State, or Local authority administering a flood insurance program as
being within the floodway of a one hundred-year flood storm.
   Replacement Trees means new landscape trees to be planted by the developer
to replace trees removed during the development of property.
   Replat means a modification or amendment of a subdivision plat that changes
the size or configuration of any lot, parcel of land, roadway or required
improvement including any replat authorized by Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code §
212.015, as amended. Replat includes the vacation of a prior plat and, within
one (1) year thereafter, the filing of a concept plan or other plat to
subdivide a portion of the land included in the area of the vacated plat.
   Required Yard means the open space between a lot line and the buildable area
within which no structure shall be located except as provided for herein.
   Reserve Strip means a narrow strip of property usually separating a parcel
of land from a roadway or utility line easement, that is characterized by
limited depth which will not support development and which is intended to
prevent access to the roadway or utility easement from adjacent property and
which are prohibited by these regulations unless their control is given to the
City.
   Resubmittal Application means the application for a plan or plat resubmitted
to the City following the disapproval or conditional approval of the original
application or a Resubmittal Application that satisfies each condition of a
conditional approval or remedies the reasons for disapproval.
   Resubmittal Date means the date that a Resubmittal Application is determined
to be complete and is accepted for review by the City.
   Reverse Frontage Lot means a double frontage lot which is to be developed
with the rear yard abutting a major street and with the primary means of
ingress and egress provided on a minor street.
   Right-of-Way means a strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, or oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for other similar
purpose or use. The usage of the term "right-of-way" for land platting purposes
shall mean that every right-of-way hereinafter established and shown on the
Final Plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining
such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots
or parcels. Right-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains,
wastewater lines, storm drains, or any other use involving maintenance by a
public agency shall be dedicated to the public by the maker of the plat where
such right-of-way is established.
   Same Ownership means ownership by the same person, corporation, firm,
entity, partnership, or unincorporated association; or ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnerships, entities, or unincorporated associations in
which a stockholder, partner, or associate or a member of his/her family owns
an interest in each corporation, firm, partnership, entity, or unincorporated
association.
   Secondary Structure means any structure that is subordinate and incidental
to the primary structure; and is subordinate in area, extent and purpose to the
primary structure; and contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of
the occupants, business or industry in the primary structure, and is located on
the same lot as the primary structure.
   Setback or Building Line means a line or lines designating the which,
between such line and a corresponding line, structures lines generally provide
the boundaries of the buildable area of an interior limit of the area of a lot
in ay not be erected. The building lines generally provide the boundaries of
the buildable area of any given lot.
   Shrub means any self-supporting woody evergreen and/or deciduous species.
   Side Yard means a space extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between the setback line and the side lot line measured perpendicular from the
side lot line to the closest point of the setback line.
   Significant Tree means a native, living 8 inch caliper tree or more that the
City desires to preserve to the greatest extent possible.
   Slope means the vertical change in grade divided by the horizontal distance
over which that vertical change occurred. The slope is usually given as a
percentage.
   Spring means a point or zone of natural groundwater discharge having
measurable flow and/or a pool, however small, and characterized by the presence
of a plant community adapted to the moist conditions of the site.
   Standard Approval Procedure means the procedure for review, processing and
approval of plans or plats set forth in this Ordinance other than the
Alternative Review Procedure.
   State Health Department means the Texas State Department of Health.
   Street means any public or private right-of-way which affords the primary
means of vehicular access to abutting property.
   Street Line means that line limiting the right-of-way of the street and
being identical with the property line of persons owning property fronting on
the streets.
   Street Side Yard means the side yard of a corner lot abutting the street
right-of-way.
   Street Yard means a space extending across the length and/or width of a lot
between the street right-of-way and the closest faces of the buildings on the
lot.
   Structural Integrity means the ability of a structure to maintain stability
against normal forces experienced by said structure.
   Structure means any building or anything constructed or erected on the
ground or which is attached to something located on the ground. Structures
include buildings, telecommunication towers, sheds, parking lots that are the
primary use of a parcel and permanent signs. Sidewalks, paving and parking
areas, and fences shall not be considered structures unless located within a
public utility or drainage easement.
   Subdivider means any person, developer, firm, partnership, corporation or
other entity, acting as a unit subdividing or proposing to subdivide land as
herein defined.
   Subdivision means the division or redivision of land into two (2) or more
lots, tracts, sites or parcels for the purpose of development, laying out any
addition to the City, or for laying out any subdivision or building lots, or
any lot, street, alley, access easement, public utility easement, park or other
portion intended for use by the public, or for the use of any owner, purchaser,
renter, occupant, person or entity.
   Subdivision Ordinance means Ordinance No. 2022-002 of the City of Trinidad,
Texas.
   Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) means a study of the impacts of a development
on the City's transportation system.
   Tree means any self-supporting woody plant species which normally grows to
an overall minimum height of fifteen (15) feet.
   Tree Survey means a scaled drawing accurately showing the location, caliper
and Critical Root Zone of Significant Trees in relation to the property
boundaries.
   Urbanization means the process of constructing public improvements required
to support suburban or urban land use.
   Variances means a grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
Ordinance when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
variance, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by this Ordinance.
   Vines means any of a group of woody or herbaceous plants which may cling by
twining, by means of aerial rootlets or by means of tendrils, or which may
simply sprawl over the ground or other plants.
   Watershed means area from which stormwater drains into a give basin, river
or creek.
   Waterway means any natural or man-made channel conducting stormwater from a
two-year storm event at a depth of eight (8) inches or more and at a rate of
fifteen (15) cubic feet per second or more. Street pavement shall in no
instance be considered a waterway.
   Working Days means Monday through Friday exclusive of City recognized
holidays.
   Yard means an open space that lies between the principal or accessory
building or buildings and the nearest lot line.
   Yard Depth means the shortest distance between a lot line and a yard line.
   Yard Line means a line drawn parallel to a lot line at a distance therefrom
equal to the depth of the required yard.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 1.03. Purpose.
   (a)   The purpose of this Ordinance is to provide for orderly, safe and
healthful development to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare
of the community and maintain a rural way of life. From and after the passage
of this Ordinance, all plats and subdivisions of land within the corporate
limits of the City, and all plats and subdivisions of land outside the
corporate limits of the City that the Council may be petitioned to include
within the corporate limits of the City by an extension of said corporate
limits, and all tracts within the City's extraterritorial jurisdiction, shall
conform to the following rules and regulations.
   (b)   The system of improvements for thoroughfares, water and wastewater
services, other utilities, drainage, public facilities and community amenities
determine in large measure the quality of life enjoyed by the residents of the
community. Health, safety, economy, amenities, environmental sensitivity and
convenience are all factors which influence and determine a community's quality
of life and character. A community's quality of life is of public interest.
Consequently, the development of land, as it affects a community’s quality of
life, is an activity whose regulation is a valid function of municipal
government.
   (c)   The provisions contained herein are designed and intended to encourage
the development of a quality urban environment by establishing standards for
the provision of open space, storm water drainage, transportation, public
utilities and facilities, and other needs necessary for ensuring the creation
and continuance of a healthy, attractive, safe and efficient community that
provides for the conservation, enhancement and protection of its human and
natural resources. Through the application of this Ordinance, the interests of
the public as well as those public and private parties, both present and
future, having interest in property affected by these regulations are protected
by the granting of certain rights and privileges.
   (d)   This Ordinance is designed and intended to achieve the following
purposes, and shall be administered so as to:
      (1)   Assist orderly, efficient and coordinated development within the
City's jurisdiction.
      (2)   Provide neighborhood conservation and prevent the development of
slums and blight.
      (3)   Harmoniously relate the development of the various tracts of land
to the existing community and facilitate the future development of adjoining
tracts.
      (4)   Provide that the cost of improvements to minimum standards which
primarily benefit the tract of land being developed be borne by the owner or
developers of the tract, and that the cost of improvements to minimum standards
which primarily benefit the whole community be borne by the whole community.
      (5)   Provide the best possible design for each tract being subdivided.
      (6)   Provide the most attractive relationship between the land as
developed and the circulation of traffic throughout the municipality, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways,
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the proposed development,
and to provide for the proper location width of streets and building lines.
      (7)   Prevent pollution of the air, streams, and ponds; and assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard both surface and groundwater
supplies; and to encourage the wise use and management of natural resources
throughout the municipality in order to preserve the integrity, stability, and
beauty of the community and the value of the land.
      (8)   Preserve the natural beauty and topography the municipality and
ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural features.
      (9)   As appropriate, reconcile any differences of interest among the
developer, other property owners and the City.
      (10)   Establish adequate and accurate records of land subdivision.
      (11)   Ensure that public or private facilities are available and will
have a sufficient capacity to serve proposed subdivisions and developments
within the City's jurisdiction.
      (12)   Standardize the procedure and requirements for developing property
and submitting
plans for review and approval.
      (13)   Protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the community.
      (14)   Provide a healthy environment for the present and future citizens;
an environment designed to reasonably secure safety from fire, flood and other
dangers; and to provide that land be subdivided in a manner to attain such
goals and benefits for the community.
      (15)   Protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the community and encourage the orderly and beneficial development of
all parts of the community.
      (16)   Protect and conserve the value of land throughout the community
and the value of buildings and improvements upon the land.
      (17)   Guide public and private policy and action in providing adequate
and efficient transportation systems, public utilities, and other public
amenities and facilities.
      (18)   Encourage the development of a stable, prospering economic
environment.
   (e)   Certain minimum standards for land use, construction and development
within the City limits are contained in the City's Zoning Ordinance, applicable
building and plumbing codes, City standard details and specifications, if any,
and this Ordinance. If only the minimum standards are followed, as expressed by
the various ordinances regulating land development, a standardization of
development will occur. This will produce a monotonous urban setting.
Subdivision design within both the City and its extraterritorial jurisdiction
should be of a quality to carry out the purpose and spirit of the policies
expressed in the Master Plan and in this Ordinance, rather than be limited to
the minimum standards required herein.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 1.04. Authority.
   (a)   This Ordinance is adopted pursuant to the police power of general law
cities, and under authority of the Constitution and general laws of the State
of Texas, including, but not limited to Tex. Loc. Gov't. Code Ch. 212.
   (b)   In accordance with the City's police powers and authority and as
specifically authorized by Tex. Loc. Gov't. Code Ch. 212 and other applicable
laws, the Planning and Zoning Commission, as a condition of subdivision plat or
replat approval, shall require the owners and developers of land who desire to
subdivide, plat or replat land within the City or its extraterritorial
jurisdiction, for urban development, to provide for building setback lines, to
dedicate streets, alleys, parks, easements or other public places or facilities
of adequate width and size and to coordinate street layouts and street planning
with the City's Master Plan, with other municipalities, and with county, state
and federally designated highways, as they may deem best in the interest of the
general public, in order to provide for the orderly development of the areas
and to secure adequate provision for traffic, light, air, recreation,
transportation, water, drainage, sewage and other facilities.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 1.05. Jurisdiction.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise herein, this Ordinance hall apply
to all subdivisions and all related land development activities, as they are
both defined herein, and all land, any part of which is located within the
jurisdiction of the City. The jurisdiction of the City shall be defined as
follows:
   (a)   The corporate limits of the City of Trinidad, Texas;
   (b)   The extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of Trinidad, Texas; and
   (c)   Any additional area outside subsections (a) and (b) above as permitted
by law and which has been approved by the Council.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 1.06. Policy.
   In order to carry out the purposes hereinabove stated, it is hereby declared
to be the policy of the City to consider the subdivision and/or development of
land as subject to the control of the municipality, pursuant to the Master
Plan, if any and as adopted or amended from time to time, for the orderly,
planned, efficient and economical development of the City and its jurisdiction.
This Section shall be administered such that:
   (a)   Land to be subdivided and/or developed shall be of such nature, shape
and location that with proper and careful design and development it can be
safely used for building purposes without danger to health or risk of fire,
flood, erosion, landslide or other menace to the general welfare.
   (b)   A Final Plat shall not be recorded until the necessary public
utilities and facilities and other required improvements exist or arrangements
are made for their provision.
   (c)   Buildings, lots, blocks and streets shall be arranged so to provide
for an attractive and healthful environment and to facilitate fire protection
and provide ample access to buildings for emergency equipment.
   (d)   Land shall be subdivided and developed with due regard to topography
and existing vegetation with the object being that the natural beauty of the
land shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible.
   (e)   Existing features which would add value to development or to the City
as a whole, such as scenic and special features, both natural and man-made,
historic sites, and similar assets shall be preserved in the design of the
subdivision whenever possible.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 1.07. Application.
   (a)   The provisions of this Ordinance, including design standards and
improvement requirements, shall, except as specifically provided otherwise in
this Ordinance, apply to all subdivisions of land within the jurisdiction of
the City, including but not limited to the following forms of land subdivision
and development activity:
      (1)   The division of land into two (2) or more tracts, lots, sites or
parcels, any part of which shall contain less than five acres in area when
subdivided;
      (2)   The division of land into two (2) or more tracts, lot, sites or
parcels, any part of which when subdivided shall contain five (5) acres or more
in area and will require the dedication or conveyance of any access, public
right-of-way, easement, or any public improvement;
      (3)   Land previously subdivided or platted into tracts, lot, sites or
parcels, which subdivision was subject to, but not in accordance with, City or
County Ordinances in effect at the time of such subdividing or platting;
      (4)   The combining of two (2) or more contiguous tracts, lots, sites or
parcels for the purpose of creating one (1) or more legal lots in order to
achieve a more developable site, except as otherwise provided herein;
      (5)   Any PDD for which two (2) or more lots, tracts, o parcels are
designed, established or created for occupancy, use or a building site, or for
which a building permit, plumbing permit, electrical permit, floodplain permit,
utility tap, or certificate of acceptance for required public improvements is
required by the City;
      (6)   The platting of any existing legal deed-divided unplatted lot,
parcel, site or tract;
      (7)   The voluntary platting and recording of a subdivisions plat
dividing any land within the jurisdiction of the City into lots, parcels, sites
or tracts;
      (8)   Any plat having received approval from the Commission or the
Council for which said approval has expired; or
      (9)   The dedication of any street or alley through any tract of land,
regardless of the area involved.
   (b)   There may be occasions when the City Council deems it appropriate to
allow a delay in the implementation of certain elements of this Ordinance. On
those occasions, a development agreement shall be used in accordance with the
City policy.
   (c)   This Ordinance applies to Concept Plans, Preliminary Plats,
Construction Plans, Final Plats, Short Form Final Plats, Replats and Amended
Plats.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 1.08. Exemptions.
   (a)   The provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to:
      (1)   Sales of land by metes and bounds in tracts of five acres or more
in area and not requiring the dedication of any easements, land or roadways for
use by any purchaser or member of the public, except as otherwise specifically
provided in this Ordinance;
      (2)   Cemeteries complying with all State and local laws and regulations;
      (3)   Divisions of land created by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction;
      (4)   Any subdivision of land for which a Concept Plan, Preliminary Plat
or Final Plat has been filed with the City on or before the effective date of
this Ordinance, excluding any such plan or plat for which approval has expired
or hereafter expires; or
      (5)   The combination of two platted lots for the creation of a more
developable site and the Planning and Zoning Commission finds that:
         (i)   The proposed use is the same as that for which the subdivision
was platted by the subdivider;
         (ii)   No increase is anticipated in the estimated traffic generation
or utility demands; and
         (iii)   Off-site storm water runoff is neither increased nor
concentrated.
   (b)   The provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the division of an
existing legal lot, said division being caused by the City's acquisition of a
part of said legal lot, when the Council finds that the acquisition by the City
is in the best interest of the public health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of Trinidad and/or its extraterritorial jurisdiction. Upon the Council
so finding, the resulting parcels shall be deemed to constitute legal lots for
the purposes of developing under the requirements of this ordinance and other
applicable City regulations. In creating said division, the Council is
empowered to attach to the resulting parcels acquired by the City, and the
remainder parcels not acquired by the City upon agreement with the owner, such
conditions as it finds reasonable and necessary to offset any adverse effects
resulting from the City's acquisition as of a part of the original legal lot,
insofar as any such condition is not contrary to the spirit and intent of the
ordinance.
   (c)   The provisions of this Ordinance shall not be construed, interpreted
or applied to land located within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City
in a manner to regulate:
      (1)   The use of any building or property for any lawful purpose;
      (2)   The bulk, density or number of buildings on a tract or parcel of
land;
      (3)   The floor-to-area ratio of any building to be constructed on any
lot; or
      (4)   The number of residential units that can be built on an acre of
land.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 1.09. Enforcement of Regulations.
   (a)   No subdivision of land within the City or its extraterritorial
jurisdiction may be recorded until a Final Plat, accurately describing the
property to be subdivided and platted, has been approved by the City in
accordance with this Ordinance, signed and dated by the Chair of the Planning
and Zoning Commission and/or other designated officers of the City, and filed
in the Official County Records.
   (b)   No building permit, certificate of occupancy, plumbing permit,
electrical permit, floodplain permit, utility tap or certificate of acceptance
for required public improvements shall be issued by the City for or with
respect to any land within the City limits; and no floodplain permit, utility
tap or certificate of acceptance for required public improvements shall be
issued by the City for or with respect to land within the ETJ Limits:
      (1)   For any parcel or plat of land which was developed after the
effective date of, and not in conformity with, the provisions of this
Ordinance; and/or
      (2)   Until:
         (i)   All improvements, as required by this Ordinance, have been
constructed and accepted by the City of Trinidad, or
         (ii)   Assurances for the completion of improvements have been
provided in accordance with this Ordinance.
   (c)   No excavation or clearing of land, or construction of any public or
private improvements shall take place or commence, within six (6) months
preceding the date of application for the approval of any development or
subdivision; and no such excavation, clearing of land or construction shall
begin within any proposed subdivision until such time as the City Engineer
approves the plans and specifications for such subdivision.
   (d)   This Ordinance may be further enforced by injunction an other judicial
proceedings, either at law or in equity; and, in lieu of or in addition to any
other authorized enforcement or action taken, any person who violates any term
or provision of this Ordinance, with respect to any land or development within
the City, by fine and penalties as provided herein.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
ARTICLE II. REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES
Section 2.01. General Procedure.
   (a)   Action on Plats and Plans. Plats and Plans for the development of land
within the scope of this Ordinance shall be drawn and submitted to the
Municipal Authority for their approval, conditional approval, or disapproval,
as provided herein. If an Application is approved with conditions or
disapproved, the Municipal Authority shall provide or cause to be provided to
the Applicant a written statement for the conditions for approval or reasons
for disapproval that clearly articulate each specific condition for the
conditional approval or reason for disapproval. Each condition or reason
specified in the written statement shall include a citation to the law or
ordinance that is the basis for the conditional approval or disapproval, as
applicable. In the event that a Municipal Authority subject to quorum
requirements fails to act due to lack of a quorum at the meeting at which an
Application is posted for action, then:
      (1)   the Application will be deemed approved if it meets the
requirements of this Ordinance and applicable state law and was recommended for
approval by City Staff; or
      (2)   the presiding officer of the Municipal Authority is authorized to
disapprove an Application that is recommended by City staff to be disapproved
due to failure to comply with this Ordinance or applicable law.
   (b)   Commencement of Construction. Notwithstanding any provision of this
Ordinance to the contrary, an Applicant shall not commence construction
activities within the City's jurisdiction, including clearing and/or rough
grading, before first obtaining all of the City approvals required by this
Ordinance.
   (c)   General Subdivision Process. Generally, the subdivision process is
comprised of four (4) individual steps, consisting of the Concept Plan, the
Preliminary Plat, Construction Plans, and the Final Plat. Each step of the
development process has established deadlines and expirations that must be met
in order for the Application and any approval(s) granted to remain valid, in
effect and eligible to continue to the next step of, or to complete, the
development process. Compliance with each such established deadline constitutes
a separate required performance and approval.
   (d)   Submittal Schedule. The City Staff shall prepare an Applications
submittal schedule. This submittal schedule shall be reviewed and approved by
the Commission annually. Applications will only be accepted for submittal or
resubmittal on the days authorized by the schedule approved by the Commission.
The City Staff is authorized to adjust an approved schedule to accommodate
holidays, City Hall closures, and cancelled or special called meetings.
   (e)   Application Forms. The City Staff shall prepare Application forms
which shall include a checklist of the required information and documents that
are required to be submitted by Applicants in order for an Application to be
accepted as complete for review and processing under this Ordinance. The City
Staff shall update the Application from time to time as required due to
amendments to this Ordinance, state law, or applicable technical codes and
manuals. The Commission shall review and approve the Application forms and
amendments prepared by the City Staff from time to time.
   (f)   Application Completeness Review.
      (1)   City staff shall review all Applications for completeness and
either accept the Application as complete or reject the Application and provide
the Applicant with written notice of rejection that specifies the reasons for
rejection within ten (10) business days of the date the Application is
submitted. An Application will be considered complete if it is submitted in the
required form, includes all information certificates, plans, documents, and
instruments required in the Application and by this Ordinance, and is
accompanied by the applicable fees. All Applications shall also include a list
of any requested variance or exceptions from the City's Ordinance. Resubmittal
Applications are also subject to this Subsection. An Application that is
facially not complete, i.e. does not include completed forms, the information
or documents required in the Application are lacking, or it is not accompanied
by the applicable fees will not be accepted by the City. If, after additional
review, the Application is determined to be incomplete, the City Staff shall
provide written notice of the rejection of the Application that includes a
description of the Application's deficiencies. No further processing of the
Application will occur until the deficiencies are corrected.
      (2)   The following are additional requirements for acceptance of an
Application:
         (i)   Required Number of Copies. The required number of copies of
Applications and its components, having the form and content specified in this
Ordinance for the plat package shall be as follows: one electronic copy in PDF
format.
         (ii)   Any City standard details provided by the City Engineer on file
with the City Secretary and as provided on the City's website. The City
Engineer is authorized to provide updates as deemed necessary.
         (iii)   Any City standard notes provided by the City Engineer on file
with the City Secretary and as provided on the City's website. The City
Engineer is authorized to provide updates as deemed necessary.
   (g)   Order of Acceptance. No Preliminary Plat shall be accepted for filing
until the Concept Plan has been approved. No Final Plat or Construction Plans
shall be accepted for filing until the Preliminary Plat has been approved. Any
Plans or Plats tendered to the City prior to receiving the appropriate
approvals as provided in this section shall not be accepted as received.
   (h)   Notices. All submittals requiring notice to neighboring properties
must include a list of the names and addresses of all property owners within
the required distance and a preprinted mailing label for each.
   (i)   Resubmittal Applications.
      (1)   Resubmittal Applications are subject to the completeness review
process set forth in this section. In addition to containing the portions of
the original application that are being modified, the Resubmittal Application
shall include a transmittal letter that describes how each reason for
disapproval of the particular Plat or Plan that is the subject of the
Resubmittal Application is being remedied or how each condition of a
conditional approval is being satisfied, as applicable, and identifying the
location in the Resubmittal Application where each remedy or response to a
condition can be found. The transmittal letter shall further identify whether
any other changes to the Application have been made other than those necessary
to respond to the reasons for disapproval. A Resubmittal Application that
modifies the original Application beyond what is required to satisfy a
conditional approval or to remedy reasons for disapproval shall be considered a
new Application and must be accompanied by the required Application fee and
will be reviewed and processed in accordance with the deadlines and procedures
applicable to initial Applications, including but not limited to the thirty
(30) day approval deadlines. Except for Construction Plan Applications,
Resubmittal Applications submitted for the purpose of satisfying a conditional
approval or to remedy the reasons for disapproval of a Resubmittal Application
shall be accompanied by the applicable Resubmittal Application Fee.
      (2)   If an Application is disapproved because a variance or waiver is
required and the applicant wishes to obtain a variance or waiver instead of
modifying the original application, the Resubmittal Application will not be
accepted until the waiver or variance is approved or the applicant modifies the
application to comply with applicable regulations.
   (j)   Incomplete Application Expirations. An Application shall expire on the
45th day after the date the Application is submitted to the City if:
      (1)   the Applicant fails to provide documents or other information
necessary to comply with requirements relating to the form and content of the
Application set forth in this Ordinance;
      (2)   within ten (10) business days of the date the Application is
submitted to the City, the City provides the Applicant written notice of the
failure that specifies the necessary documents or other information that are
missing from the Application and the date the Application will expire if the
documents or other information is not provided; and
      (3)   the Applicant fails to provide the specified documents or other
information within the time provided in the notice.
   (k)   Processing of Applications Accepted for Filing.
      (1)   Prior to the Commission meeting at which the concept Plan is to be
heard, City Staff shall review the plan for consistency with City codes,
policies and plans.
      (2)   The Application shall be scheduled for consideration by the
Municipal Authority within thirty (30) days of the Application Filing Date (or
within the applicable extension period if an extension is granted), or within
fifteen (15) days of the Resubmittal Date, as applicable. For Applications
acted upon by the City Council in addition to the Municipal Authority, the
Application shall be scheduled for consideration by the Council within thirty
(30) days of the Municipal Authority's action on the Application (or within the
applicable extension period if an extension is granted), or within fifteen (15)
days of Commission's action on a Resubmittal Application, as applicable.
      (3)   City staff shall prepare a report analyzing the Application and
recommending action on the Application. If the recommended action is
disapproval or conditional approval, the report shall include the reasons for
disapproval or the conditions for approval, as applicable, and citations to the
law or ordinance that is the basis for disapproval or the conditional approval.
   (l)   Approval, Disapproval, Conditional Approval.
      (1)   Initial Application. The Municipal Authority shall take action on
the Application within thirty (30) days of the Filing Date. The failure of the
Municipal Authority to act within thirty (30) days of the Filing Date (or
within sixty (60) days of the Filing Date where an extension has been granted),
shall be deemed an approval of the Plan or Plat by the respective body, except
as otherwise agreed to by the Applicant pursuant to Section 2.02.
      (2)   Resubmittal Application. After disapproval or conditional approval
of an Application, the Applicant may submit a Resubmittal Application that
addresses each condition of approval or remedies each reason for disapproval
provided.
      (3)   Action on Resubmittal Application. The Municipal Authority shall
take action on the Resubmittal Application within fifteen (15) days of
Resubmittal Date. If the City Council also approves an Application, the
Council, within fifteen (15) days of the date of action on the Application by
the Municipal Authority, shall take action on the Application. The failure of
either the Municipal Authority to act within fifteen (15) days of the
Resubmittal Date (or the Council to act within fifteen (15) days of action on
the resubmittal Application by the Commission, as applicable), shall be deemed
an approval of the Plan or Plat by the Municipal Authority, if the Resubmittal
Application satisfies all conditions of a conditional approval or remedies all
reasons for disapproval, except as otherwise requested by the Applicant and
approved by the Municipal Authority pursuant to Section 2.02.
   (m)   Application Expiration.
      (1)   An Application shall expire six (6) months after the date that all
initial staff review comments from all reviewing departments have been issued
on the Application if the Application is not approved due to the Applicant's
failure to cause the Applicant to comply with applicable city regulations.
      (2)   The City Administrator may grant one six (6) month extension if the
Applicant can show substantial progress in obtaining approval of the
Application Substantial progress shall consist of, at a minimum, a resubmission
of the Application and all relevant materials by the Applicant that address all
initial staff review comments from all reviewing departments.
      (3)   After expiration of an Application, any new Application will be
required to be resubmitted as a new Application including re-paying all of the
fees associated with this process.
   (n)   Approval Does Not Waive Compliance. Approval of a Plan or Plat under
this Ordinance does not waive any requirement or regulation under this
Ordinance or an applicable City ordinance unless a waiver, exemption, or
variance to such requirement or regulation is granted by the City employee,
official, or body authorized to grant such waiver, exemption, or variance.
   (o)   Notice Compliance. Notwithstanding any term, provision or condition of
this Ordinance, save and except for a Replat, the failure by the City to
strictly comply with the issuance of any notice required to be made or provided
by mail and/or by publica ion shall not:
      (1)   Invalidate the approval, disapproval or other action taken with
respect to any plat or subdivision; or
      (2)   Give rise to any claim or cause of action by, or on behalf of, any
person; provided that a Replat shall in no event be finally approved and
authorized prior to the mailing and publication of notice as required by this
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 2.02. Requests for Extension of Approval Deadline o Waivers of
Procedures.
   (a)   The Applicant may request an extension of the thirty (30) day approval
deadlines set forth in this Ordinance by requesting an extension on the
Application form. The extension request will be considered by the Municipal
Authority responsible for approving the particular Plan or Plat Application.
Approval of an extension request will extend the deadline for approval of a
Plan or Plat by thirty (30) days.
   (b)   The Applicant may also request in writing the waiver of a deadline or
procedure set forth in this Ordinance. If approved by the Municipal Authority,
the waiver shall be documented by letter agreement or other form of agreement
approved by the Municipal Authority.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 2.03. Alternative Review Procedure; Waiver of Approval Procedure.
   (a)   The applicant may request in writing that an application submitted
under this Ordinance be reviewed under the Alternative Review Procedure
described in this Section by electing the Alternative Review Procedure at the
time an application is submitted. The applicant may at any time request that
the Alternative Review Procedure be terminated and the application be reviewed
under the standard approval procedures set forth in this Ordinance. The
Alternative Review Procedure shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Submission of the application and completeness review in accordance
with Section 2.01(d) - (f).
      (2)   Review of the application by City Staff and return of comments to
the applicant in accordance with the review schedule prepared by the City
Administrator. The comments shall consist of the reasons that the application
does not comply with City ordinances or state law and references to applicable
City ordinances or state law.
      (3)   Submission of the application to the Municipal Authority after the
applicant has corrected all deficiencies in the application and City Staff
certifies that the application complies with applicable City ordinances.
      (4)   If an applicant requests the Alternative Review procedure, then the
deadlines for action on plats or plans, the requirement for a pre-development
meeting, and the requirement for payment of Resubmittal Application Fees will
not apply unless the applicant requests in writing submitted on a date
established for submission of plats or plans for an application to be moved
back into the Standard Approval Procedure. Under the alternative Review
Procedure, if requested by the applicant, the City Engineer may, at his/her
discretion, approve an application as complete for processing without the need
for an applicant to submit documents listed on an application, including but
not limited to, Geotech and Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)
documents.
   (b)   An applicant who applies for PDD Zoning may request that the Concept
Plan and the Preliminary Plat be reviewed and processed at the same time hat
the PDD zoning application is being reviewed and processed. If accepted for
review in connection with the PDD zoning application, the Concept Plan and the
Preliminary Plat will be processed and reviewed with the PDD zoning application
in accordance with the submittal procedures, review processes, and approval
deadlines applicable to PDD zoning applications. If an applicant requests use
of this Alternative Review Procedure, then deadlines for action on the Concept
Plan and Preliminary Plat will not apply.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
ARTICLE III. PLANS AND PLATS
Section 3.01. Concept Plan.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the Concept Plan is to demonstrate conformance
with the Master Plan, compatibility of the proposed development with this and
other applicable City ordinances, and the coordination of improvements within
and among individually platted parcels, sections, or phases of a development,
prior to the consideration of a Preliminary Plat.
      (1)   A Concept Plan shall be required for all subdivisions of land,
including a replat, except as otherwise provided for in this Ordinance for
Short Form Final Plats.
      (2)   The Concept Plan shall include all adjacent and contiguous land,
owned or controlled by the developer or the person, firm or corporation that
sold the tract being developed.
      (3)   It shall not be necessary to submit a Concept Plan on any land more
than once, unless the concept substantially or materially changes, or approval
of the precedent Concept Plan has expired, as defined in this Ordinance.
   (b)   Format. One electronic copy in PDF format of the Concept Plan shall be
submitted and drawn on eighteen by twenty-four inch (18" x 24") sheet(s) a
scale of one (1) inch equals one (1) hundred feet (l" = 100') or one (1) inch
equals two (2) hundred feet (1" = 200') with all dimensions measured accurately
to the nearest foot. Thirteen additional copies of the Concept Plan shall be
provided being on paper 11" x 17" for distribution to the Commission and
Council.
   (c)   Content. The Concept Plan shall contain or have attached thereto:
      (1)   Name, address and phone numbers of the developer, record owner, and
authorized agents (engineer, surveyor, land planner, etc.).
      (2)   Proposed name of the development; date revised and/or prepared;
north indicator; scale.
      (3)   Location map drawn at a scale of 2,000 feet per inch showing the
area within a one mile radius of the proposed subdivision. Use of the latest
USGS 7.5-minute quadrangle map is recommended.
      (4)   A layout of the entire tract and its relationship to adjacent
property, existing development and recorded plats.
      (5)   Topographic contours at ten-foot intervals, or less, unless
otherwise approved by the City.
      (6)   Proposed major categories of land use by acreage showing
compatibility of land use with, or proposed variance from, the Master Plan.
      (7)   Proposed number of residential and nonresident al lots, tracts or
parcels of land together with the estimated:
         (i)   Number of LUEs required for each category of lots;
         (ii)   Traffic volume to be generated by all proposed development
other than single-family residential.
      (8)   Proposed and existing arterial and collector streets to serve the
general area.
      (9)   Location of City Parks, Neighborhood Parks, Nature Preserves,
Pocket Parks, Open Space, sites for schools and other public uses, and
regulatory 100-year floodplains.
      (10)   Significant drainage features and structures including any
regulatory 100-year floodplains.
      (11)   Significant existing features on, or within 200 feet of, the
property, such as railroads, roads, buildings, utilities and drainage
structures.
      (12)   Approximate boundaries and anticipated timing of proposed phases
of development and uses.
      (13)   Identification of known exceptional topographical, cultural,
historical, archaeological, hydrological and other physical conditions of the
property to be developed, or existing within 200 feet of the property, which
will require the establishment of reasonable design standards in excess of the
established minimum standards or require a variance from those established
minimum standards as defined in this Ordinance.
      (14)   Location of City limit lines and/or outer border of the City's
extraterritorial jurisdiction, as depicted on the City's most recent base map,
if either such line traverses the development or is contiguous to the
development's boundary.
      (15)   A proposed phasing plan for the development of future sections.
      (16)   For Resubmittal Applications, in addition to containing the
information and documents required by this subsection (c), a transmittal letter
that describes how each reason for disapproval of the Concept Plan is being
remedied or how each condition of a conditional approval is being satisfied, as
applicable, and identifying th location in the Concept Plan application where
each remedy or response to a condition can be found. The transmittal letter
shall further identify whether any other changes to the application have been
made other than those necessary to respond to the reasons for disapproval.
   (d)   Procedure. A Concept Plan shall be submitted to the City for approval
by both the Commission and the Council.
      (1)   Legible prints, as indicated on the application form, shall be
submitted at least 30 days prior to the regular meeting of the Commission along
with the completed application forms, and payment of all applicable fees and
any attendant documents needed to supplement the information provided on the
plan.
      (2)   Prior to the Commission meeting at which the Concept Plan is to be
heard, City staff shall review the plan for consistency with City codes,
policies and plans.
      (3)   The application shall be scheduled for consideration by the
Commission within thirty (30) days of the application Filing Date (or within
the applicable extension period if an extension is granted), or within fifteen
(15) days of the Resubmittal Date, as applicable. The application shall be
scheduled for consideration by the Council thirty (30) days of the Commission's
approval or conditional approval action on the application (or within the
applicable extension period if an extension is granted), or within fifteen (15)
days of Commission's approval or conditional approval action on a Resubmittal
Application, as applicable.
      (4)   City staff shall prepare a report analyzing the Concept Plan
submittal, as well as any comments received concerning the Concept Plan, and
recommending action on the Concept Plan. If the recommended action is denial or
conditional approval, the report shall include the reasons for denial or the
conditions for approval, as applicable, and citations to the law or ordinance
that is the basis for disapproval or the conditional approval. This report
shall be available at least five (5) business days prior to the Commission
meeting.
      (5)   If the developer chooses to withdraw the Concept Plan, he/she may
do so in writing delivered by noon of the third working day preceding the
Commission meeting. A withdrawn Concept Plan may be resubmitted and appear on
the next Commission agenda after repayment of the applicable fees and public
notification.
   (e)   Approval. The Commission and Council shall take action on the Concept
Plan.
      (1)   The Commission shall take action on the application within thirty
(30) days of the Filing Date. The failure of either the Commission to act
within thirty (30) days of the Filing Date (or within sixty (60) days of the
Filing Date where an extension has been granted), or the Council to act within
thirty (30) days of approval action on the Concept Plan by the Commission (or
within sixty (60) days where an extension has been granted) shall be deemed an
approval of the plan by the respective body, except as otherwise agreed to by
the applicant pursuant to Section 20A(b)."
      (2)   The Council, within thirty (30) days of the ate of approval action
of the Concept Plan application by the Commission (or within sixty (60) days of
the date of approval action by the Commission where an extension has been
granted), shall take action on the Concept Plan application.
      (3)   If applicable, zoning of the tract shall permit th uses proposed by
the Concept Plan, or a zoning amendment necessary to permit the proposed uses
shall be required prior to approval of the Concept Plan.
      (4)   Approval of a Concept Plan constitutes acceptance of the general
development and arrangement of lots indicated on the plan; the classification
and arrangement of streets indicated; the proposed phasing plan; and the nature
of utility service proposed. Subsequent zoning approvals cannot be guaranteed.
      (5)   Concept Plan approval does not ensure approval of a Preliminary
Plat failing to meet specific requirements of this Ordinance, and approval does
not comprise any vesting of development rights or any assurance that permits of
any kind ill be issued.
      (6)   Upon approval of the Concept Plan, the level per shall submit one
(1) Mylar copy of the approved Concept Plan to be kept on file as a public
record in the office of the City.
   (f)   Expiration. The approval of a Concept Plan shall expire two (2) years
after the filing date unless:
      (1)   A Preliminary Plat on all, or a portion in the instance of an
approved phasing plan of, the land is filed prior to such expiration date;
      (2)   An extension is granted by the Commission in accordance with this
Ordinance;
      (3)   The development proceeds in accordance with an approved phasing
plan. At such time as the development lags one year behind the approved phasing
plan, the approval shall expire if the developer does not, prior to the
expiration date, submit and obtain approval of a written request for the
extension and continuance of the Concept Plan prior to expiration; or
      (4)   If a Concept Plan expires, it may be reinstated only upon
resubmittal of the unaltered, approved plan to the Commission and Council and
the approval by both bodies under the then-current subdivision regulations. All
fees shall be repaid as if the plan were initially being submitted.
   (g)   Extension. The developer may apply for an extension, in writing, prior
to the end of the initial 12-month period, stating reasons for needing the
extension and demonstrating subsequent development activity in accordance with
this Ordinance. Upon receipt of this written request, the Commission may, at
its discretion, grant an additional six-month extension so long as the Concept
Plan remains consistent with the Master Plan and/or ordinances of the City.
   (h)   Revision. If a revision to a previously approved Concept Plan is
required, all changes must be completed on the one Mylar copy on file in the
office of the City, and resubmitted to the Commission and Council for approval.
All fees shall be re aid as if the Concept Plan was initially being submitted.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 3.02. Preliminary Plat.
   (a)   Purpose. The Preliminary Plat provides detailed graphic information
and associated text indicating property boundaries, easements, land use,
streets, utilities, drainage, and other information required to evaluate
proposed subdivisions of land. A Preliminary Plat shall be required for any
subdivision of land, except as otherwise provided for in this Ordinance,
subsequent to Concept Plan approval.
   (b)   Format. One electronic copy in PDF format of the Preliminary Plat
shall be provided and drawn on 18- by 24-inch sheet(s) at a scale of one inch
equals 100 feet with all dimensions labeled accurately to the nearest foot.
When more than one sheet is necessary to accommodate the entire area, an index
sheet showing the entire subdivision to a scale of one inch equals 400 feet
shall be attached to the plat. Thirteen additional copies of the Preliminary
Plat shall be provided being on paper 11 inches by 17 inches for distribution
to the Commission and Council.
   (c)   Content. The Preliminary Plat shall include all of the tracts intended
to be developed at one time, and any on site improvements required to
accommodate Proposed Development. The Preliminary Plan shall be signed and
sealed by a registered professional engineer, licensed to practice engineering
in the State of Texas and shall contain or have attached thereto:
      (1)   General Information.
         (i)   Name, address and phone numbers of the developer, record owner,
and authorized agents (engineer, land planner, etc.).
         (ii)   The proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not have the
same spelling or be pronounced similarly to the name of any of the subdivision
located within the City or within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
City, provided however that use of the same base names for different sections
or phases is required when the units are contiguous with their namesakes and
individually identified by a section or phase number.
         (iii)   The date, scale, and north indicator.
         (iv)   A location map showing the relation of the subdivision to
streets and other prominent features in all directions for a radius of at least
one mile using a scale of one inch equals 2,000 feet. The latest edition of the
USGS 17.5-minute quadrangle map is recommended.
         (v)   Certification and signature blocks as required by the City and
the County.
         (vi)   The total acreage of the property to be subdivided and the
subtotals by land use.
      (2)   Existing Conditions.
         (i)   The existing property lines, including bearings and distances,
of the land being subdivided. Property lines shall be drawn sufficiently wide
to provide easy identification.
         (ii)   The location of existing watercourses, dry creek beds, wells,
sinkholes and other similar topographic features.
         (iii)   Significant Trees, within the boundaries of the subdivision
and of eight-inch caliper and larger, shall be shown accurately to the nearest
one foot, Critical Root Zones of these trees shall also be shown.
         (iv)   Centerline of watercourses, creeks, existing drainage
structures and other pertinent data shall be shown.
         (v)   Areas subject to flooding shall be shown delineating the
regulatory 100-year floodplain, and any other floodplains identified in the
City’s Master Drainage Plan.
         (vi)   Topographic data indicating one foot contour intervals for
slopes less than five percent, two-foot contour intervals for slopes between
five percent and ten percent, and five-foot contour intervals for slopes
exceeding ten percent. The contoured area shall extend outward from the
property boundary for a distance equal to 25 percent of the distance across the
tract, but not fewer than 50 feet nor more than 200 feet.
         (vii)   The locations, sizes and descriptions of all existing
utilities, including but not limited to wastewater lines, lift stations,
wastewater and storm sewer manholes, water lines, water storage tanks, and
wells within the subdivision, and/or adjacent thereto.
         (viii)   The location, dimensions, names and descriptions of all
existing or recorded streets, alleys, reservations, railroads, easements or
other public rights-of-way within the subdivision, intersecting or contiguous
with its boundaries or forming such boundaries, as determined from existing
deed and plat records. The existing right-of-way width of any boundary street
to the proposed subdivision shall also be shown.
         (ix)   The location of City limit lines and/or outer border of the
City's extraterritorial jurisdiction, as depicted on the City's most recent
base map, if either traverses the subdivision or is contiguous to the
subdivision boundary.
      (3)   Improvements.
         (i)   The location, size and description of any proposed drainage
appurtenances, including storm sewers, detention ponds and other drainage
structures proposed to be constructed on and off the site, and designed in
accordance with the requirements of this Ordinance.
         (ii)   The developer shall include a copy of the complete application
for floodplain map amendment or revision, as required by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), if applicable.
         (iii)   The locations, dimensions, names and descriptions of all
proposed streets, alleys, parks, nature preserves, open spaces, blocks, lots,
reservations, easements, and rights-of-way; and areas within the subdivision,
indicating the connection to or continuation of other improvements in adjacent
subdivisions.
         (iv)   If applicable, the location of building setback lines, as
required by the City's Zoning Ordinance, designated by a plat note that states
the following, or language substantially similar thereto that is acceptable to
the City: "Setbacks shall comply with the City's Zoning Ordinance."
         (v)   Numbers to identify each lot and each block.
         (vi)   The lengths of each proposed property line of all lots. The
area of each non-rectangular lot shall be provided.
         (vii)   Significant Trees to remain during construction showing the
Critical Root Zones as solid circles, and Significant Trees designated to be
removed showing the Critical Root Zones as dashed circles.
         (viii)   Replacement Trees shall be shown on the Preliminary Plat.
      (4)   Support Documents.
         (i)   A drainage study, consisting of a Drainage Area Map with
customs, location and capacities of existing and proposed drainage features,
and calculations in accordance with this Ordinance and flood engineering
practices, shall be provided to ensure the property will be developed in
accordance with City drainage policies.
         (ii)   Utility demand data, consistent with the proposed uses
indicated on the Preliminary Plat, to determine the adequacy and the
consistency of proposed utility improvements.
         (iii)   A letter of certification, when applicable, that the plat has
been submitted to the Henderson County for review (applicable to all projects
proposing septic systems and/or containing any portion of the regulatory 100-
year floodplain outside of the City limits).
         (iv)   Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA), consistent with the Texas
Department of Transportation traffic projections on state roads within the
City. A scoping meeting must be conducted with City Staff prior to assembly of
the TIA document.
      (5)   Accuracy of Data. The applicant shall be responsible for verifying
the accuracy of all data submitted, including that which might be obtained from
the City, excepting that data which can only be obtained from the City.
      (6)   For Resubmittal Applications, in addition to containing the
information and documents required by this subsection (c), a transmittal letter
that describes how each reason for disapproval of the Preliminary Plat is being
remedied or how each condition of a conditional approval is being satisfied, as
applicable, and identifying the location in the Preliminary Plat application
where each remedy or response to a condition can be found. The transmittal
letter shall further identify whether any other changes to the application have
been made other than those necessary to respond to the reasons for
dissapproval.
   (d)   Procedure. A Preliminary Plat for any proposed subdivision of land
shall be submitted to the City for Commission approval.
      (1)   Legible prints, as indicated on the application form, shall be
submitted, along with tho following;
         (i)   Completed application forms and the payment of all applicable
fees.
         (ii)   A summary letter stating briefly the type of street surfacing,
drainage, water and wastewater facilities proposed, and declaring the intent to
either dedicate park land or pay fees in lieu of said dedication if such
dedication or fees apply.
         (iii)   A petition requesting annexation, if applicable.
         (iv)   A letter requesting any variances from th provisions of this
Ordinance.
         (v)   Any attendant documents needed to supplement the information
provided on the Preliminary Plat.
      (2)   For projects located within the City's extraterritorial
jurisdiction, one extra copy of the above-referenced items must be provided to
the County for review and approval. The applicant shall be responsible for any
additional information required by the County for Preliminary Plat approval.
      (3)   Prior to the Commission meeting at which the Preliminary Plat is
presented, City staff shall review the plat for consistency with City
ordinances, codes, policies and plans.
      (4)   The application shall be scheduled for consideration by the
Commission within thirty (30) days of the application Filing Date (or within
the applicable extension period if an extension is granted), or within fifteen
(15) days of the Resubmittal date, as applicable.
      (5)   City staff shall prepare a report analyzing the Preliminary Plat
submittal, as well as any comments received concerning the Concept Plan, and
recommending action on the Preliminary Plat. If the recommended action is
denial or conditional approval, the report shall include the reasons for denial
or the conditions for approval, as applicable, and citations to the law or
ordinance that is the basis for disapproval or the conditional approval. This
report shall be available at least five (5) working days prior to the
Commission meeting.
      (6)   If the developer chooses to withdraw the Preliminary Plat, he/she
may do so in writing delivered by noon of the third working day preceding the
Commission meeting. A withdrawn Preliminary Plat may be resubmitted and appear
on the next Commission agenda after repayment of the applicable fees and public
notification.
   (e)   Approval. The Commission shall take action on a Preliminary Plat.
      (1)   The Commission shall act on the request for Preliminary Plat
approval within thirty (30) days of the Filing Date, or within sixty (60) days
of the Filing Date if the applicant's extension request has been granted.
      (2)   The failure of the Commission to act within 30 days of the
Preliminary Plat Filing Date (or within 60 days of the Filing Date when an
extension has been granted) shall be deemed an approval of the plat, except as
otherwise agreed to by the applicant pursuant to
Section 2.02.
      (3)   Zoning of the tract, if applicable, that shall permit the uses
proposed by the Preliminary Plat, or any pending zoning amendment necessary to
permit the proposed uses shall have been adopted by the Council prior to
approval of the Preliminary Plat.
      (4)   Approval of the Preliminary Plat shall not constitute approval of
the Final Plat, but shall constitute a vesting of the right to develop under
City ordinances, codes and policies in effect on the date of the approval
provided that neither the Preliminary Plat nor any subsequent plat or permit
has been, or is, allowed to expire.
      (5)   The developer should be aware that specific approvals from other
agencies may be required.
      (6)   Upon approval of the Preliminary Plat, the developer shall furnish
one Mylar reproducible copy of the approved Plat to be kept on file at the City
as public record.
   (f)   Expiration.
      (1)   The approval of the Preliminary Plat shall expire two (2) years
after the filing date, unless:
         (i)   A corresponding Final Plat on the land a proved on the
Preliminary Plat is filed; or
         (ii)   An extension is granted by the Commission in accordance with
this Ordinance.
      (2)   If a Preliminary Plat expires, it may be reinstated only upon
resubmittal of the unaltered, approved plat to the Commission and Council and
the approval by both bodies. All fees shall be repaid as if the plat were
initially being submitted.
   (g)   Extension. The developer may apply for an extension, in writing, prior
to the end of the initial two (2) year period, stating reasons for needing the
extension and demonstrating pursuit of approvals for Construction Plans and/or
Final Plat in accordance with this Ordinance. Upon receipt of this written
request, the Commission may, at its discretion, grant up to a one-year
extension so long as the Preliminary Plat remains consistent with the Master
Plan and/or ordinances of the City.
   (h)   Revision. If a revision to a previously approved Preliminary Plat is
required, then no application for Final Plat shall be accepted until the
revised Preliminary Plat has been submitted and approved by the Commission.
This signed, approved document shall be kept on file as public record in the
offices of the City.
      (1)   Content. The content for a revision to a Preliminary Plat shall be
the same as the Preliminary Plat.
      (2)   Procedure. The procedure, including approval, disapproval, and
conditional approval for a revision to a Preliminary Plat shall be the same as
the Preliminary Plat.
      (3)   Support Documents. The support documents for a revision to a
Preliminary Plat shall be the same as the Preliminary Plat unless the City
Engineer deems that they are unnecessary.
   (i)   Responsibility. Notwithstanding the approval of any Preliminary Plat
by the Council, Commission or the City Engineer, the developer and the engineer
that prepares and submits such plats shall be and remain responsible for the
adequacy of the design and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed or
construed to relieve or waive the responsibility of the developer or his/her
engineer for or with respect to any plat submitted.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 3.03. Construction Plans.
   (a)   Purpose. Construction plans, based upon the approved Preliminary Plat,
and consisting of detailed specifications and diagrams illustrating the
location, design, and composition of all improvements identified in the
Preliminary Plat phase and required by this Ordinance and other applicable City
ordinances, codes and policies, shall be submitted to the City for approval. In
addition, any project that necessitates the construction, reconstruction or
modification of existing City infrastructure shall also be submitted to the
City for approval. The plans shall be kept by the City as a permanent record of
required improvements in order to:
      (1)   Provide better records that facilitate the operation and
maintenance of, and any future modifications to existing City infrastructure.
      (2)   Provide data for evaluation of materials, methods of construction
and design.
      (3)   Provide documentation of approved public improvements to ensure
that all such improvements are built to City standards and specifications.
      (4)   No Final Plat shall be certified by the City, and no construction
activities shall commence, until such time as Construction Plans completely
describing the on-site and off-site improvements required by this Ordinance and
other applicable City ordinances and codes, have been approved by the City
Engineer.
   (b)   Format. Drawings shall be on 24-inch by 36-inch sheets at generally
accepted horizontal and vertical engineering scales.
   (c)   Content. Construction plans shall include all on- and off-site
improvements required to serve the proposed development as indicated on the
approved Preliminary Plat and in compliance with applicable ordinances, codes,
standards and policies of the City, and other applicable governmental entities.
All Construction Plans shall be signed and sealed by a registered professional
engineer, licensed to practice in the State of Texas, and shall contain or have
attached thereto:
      (1)   Cover Sheet:
         (i)   The appropriate project name, date, and the name, addresses and
phone numbers of the developer, engineer and surveyor, etc.
         (ii)   A location map showing the relation of the subdivision to
streets and other prominent features in all directions for a radius of at least
one mile using a scale of one inch equals 2,000 feet. The latest edition of the
USGS 7.5-minute quadrangle map is recommended.
      (2)   Street and Roadway Systems:
         (i)   The horizontal layouts and alignments showing geometric data and
other pertinent design details. The horizontal layout shall also show the
direction of stormwater flow and the location of manholes, inlets and special
structures;
         (ii)   Vertical layouts and alignments showing existing and proposed
centerline, right and left right-of-way line elevations along each proposed
roadway;
         (iii)   Typical right-of-way cross-sections showing pertinent design
details and elevations as prescribed in City standard details and
specifications, if any;
         (iv)   Typical paving sections showing right-of-way width, lane
widths, median widths, shoulder widths, and pavement recommendations;
         (v)   Attendant documents containing any additional information
required to evaluate the proposed roadway improvements, including geotechnical
information; and
      (3)   Drainage Improvements:
         (i)   Detailed design of all drainage facilities as indicated in the
Preliminary Plat phase, including typical channel or paving section, storm
sewers and other stormwater control facilities.
         (ii)   Typical channel cross-sections, plan and profile drawings of
every conduit/channel shall be shown.
         (iii)   Existing and proposed topographic conditions indicating one
foot contour intervals for slopes less than five percent, two-foot contour
intervals for slopes between five percent and ten percent, and five foot
contour intervals for slopes exceeding ten percent, and referenced to a United
States Geological Survey or Coastal and Geodetic Survey benchmark or monument.
         (iv)   Attendant documents containing design computations in
accordance with this Ordinance, and any additional information required to
valuate the proposed drainage improvements.
         (v)   A copy of the complete application for floodplain map amendment
or revision, as required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), if
applicable.
      (4)   Erosion and Sedimentation Controls:
         (i)   Proposed fill or other structure elevating techniques, levees,
channel modifications and detention facilities.
         (ii)   Existing and proposed topographic conditions with vertical
intervals not greater than one foot referenced to a United States Geological
Survey or Coastal and Geodetic Survey benchmark or monument.
         (iii)   The location, size, and character of all temporary and
permanent erosion and sediment control facilities with specifications detailing
all on-site erosion control measures which will be established and maintained
during all periods of development and construction.
         (iv)   Contractor staging areas, vehicle access areas, temporary and
permanent spoils storage areas.
         (v)   A plan for restoration for the mitigation of erosion in all
areas disturbed during construction.
      (5)   Water Distribution Systems:
         (i)   The layout, size and specific location of the existing and
proposed water mains, pump stations, storage tanks and other related
structures, sufficient to serve the proposed land uses and development as
identified in the Preliminary Plat phase and in accordance with City standard
details and specifications, if any.
         (ii)   The existing and proposed location of fire hydrants, valves,
meters and other fittings.
         (iii)   Design details showing the connection with the existing City
water system.
         (iv)   The specific location and size of all water service connections
for each individual lot.
         (v)   Attendant documents containing any additional information
required to evaluate the proposed water distribution system.
      (6)   Wastewater Collection Systems:
         (i)   The layout, size and specific location of the existing and
proposed wastewater lines, manholes, lift stations, and other related
structures sufficient to serve the land uses and development as identified in
the Preliminary Plat has, in accordance with all current City standards,
specifications, and criteria for construction of wastewater systems.
         (ii)   Plan and profile drawings for each line in public rights-of-way
or public utility easements, showing existing ground level elevation at
centerline of pipe, pipe size and flow line elevation at all bends, drops,
turns, and station numbers at 50-foot intervals.
         (iii)   Design details for manholes and special structures. Flow line
elevations shall be shown at every point where the line enters or leaves the
manholes.
         (iv)   Detailed design for lift stations, package plants or other
special wastewater structures.
         (v)   Attendant documents containing any additional information
required to evaluate the proposed wastewater system and complete an application
for State Health Department approval.
      (7)   Street Lighting. The location, size, type and description of
streetlights according to City standard details and specifications, if any.
      (8)   Street Signs. The location, size, type and description of street
signs according to City standard details and specifications, if any.
      (9)   Sidewalks. The location, size and type of sidewalks and pedestrian
ramps according to City standard details and specifications, if any.
      (10)   Improvements for Parks, Open Spaces and other Public and Common
areas - as identified and/or approved on the Preliminary Plat.
      (11)   The location, size and description of all Significant Trees (to
remain and to be removed), and Replacement Trees to meet the requirements of
this Ordinance.
      (12)   Landscaping and Screening. The location, size and description of
all landscaping and screening materials as required by this Ordinance.
      (13)   Design Criteria. Final design criteria, reports, calculations, and
all other related computations, if not previously submitted with the
Preliminary Plat.
      (14)   Cost Estimates. A cost estimate of each required improvement,
prepared, signed and sealed by a professional engineer licensed to practice in
the State of Texas.
      (15)   For Resubmittal Applications, in addition to containing the
information and documents required by this subsection (c), a transmittal letter
that describes how each reason for disapproval of the Construction Plans are
being remedied or how each condition of a conditional approval is being
satisfied, as applicable, and identifying the location in the Construction Plan
application where each remedy or response to a condition can be found. The
transmittal letter shall further identify whether any other changes to the
application have been made other than those necessary to respond to the reasons
for disapproval.
   (d)   Procedure. After all necessary approvals of the Preliminary Plat have
been granted, Construction Plans, together with a completed application form
and review fee, shall be submitted to the Director of Development Services or
his/her designee for review by City Staff.
      (1)   Construction Plans may be submitted for review and approval
simultaneously with a Final Plat only if the applicant elects to seek approval
under the Alternative Review Procedure set forth in
Section 2.03 of the Subdivision Ordinance at the time of submittal. Otherwise,
the Final Plat shall not be accepted for review or approved until the
Construction Plans have been approved. If the Construction Plans and th Final
Plat are to be reviewed simultaneously, a complete application for Construction
Plans and a complete application for Final Plat must be submitted to the City
simultaneously and th Alternative Review Procedure described in Section 2.03
will govern review, processing, and approval of the applications.
      (2)   City staff shall review all Construction Plan submittals for
completeness at the time of application. If in the judgment of the City, the
Construction Plan submittal substantially fails to meet the minimal
informational requirements as outlined above, it will not be accepted for
review.
      (3)   The City Engineer shall review the Construction Plans to ensure
compliance with this Ordinance, and other applicable City ordinances, codes,
standards and specifications, and good engineering practices.
      (4)   For projects located within the City's extraterritorial
jurisdiction, the Construction Plans and attendant documents shall be provide
to the County for review and approval. The applicant shall be responsible for
any additional information required by the County for Construction Plan
approval.
   (e)   Approval. Within thirty (30) days of the Filing Date (or within 60
days of the Filing Date if an extension request has been approved), the City
Engineer shall either approve or disapprove the Construction Plans.
      (1)   If the Construction Plans are disapproved, the City Engineer shall
notify the applicant, in writing by the thirtieth (30th) day following the
Filing Date, of disapproval, state the reasons for disapproval, and cite to the
law or ordinance that is the basis for disapproval. The failure of either the
City Engineer to act within thirty (30) days of the Filing Date (or within
sixty (60) days of the Filing Date where an extension has been granted), shall
be deemed an approval of the Construction Plans, except as otherwise agreed to
by the applicant pursuant to Section 2.02.
      (2)   If Construction Plans are approved, then the City Engineer shall
sign the cover sheet of the Construction Plans, returning one signed copy to
the applicant and retaining the other signed copy for City records.
      (3)   The developer should be aware that specific approvals from other
agencies may be required.
      (4)   All improvements shown in the approved Construction Plans shall be
constructed pursuant to and in compliance with the approved plans, except as
otherwise specifically approved.
   (f)   Revision. Where it becomes necessary, due to unforeseen circumstances,
for corrections to be made to Construction Plans for which approval has already
been obtained, the City Engineer shall have the authority to approve such
corrections when, in his/her opinion, such changes are warranted and also in
conformance with City requirements. Approval of such changes agreed to between
the developer and City Engineer shall be noted by initialing and dating by both
parties on the two original signed copies of the Construction Plans.
   (g)   Responsibility. Notwithstanding the approval of any Construction Plans
by the Council, Commission or the City Engineer, the developer and the engineer
that prepares and submits such plans and specifications shall be and remain
responsible for the adequacy of the design of all such improvements; and
nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed or construed to relieve or waive the
responsibility of the developer or his/her engineer for or with respect to any
design, plans and specifications submitted.
   (h)   Expiration.
      (1)   The approval of the Construction Plans shall expire two (2) years
after the filing date, unless an extension is granted by the Commission in
accordance with this Ordinance.
      (2)   If the Construction Plans expire, all fees shall be repaid as if
the Construction Plans were initially being submitted.
   (i)   Extension. The developer may apply for an extension, in writing, prior
to the end of the initial two (2) year period, stating reasons for needing the
extension and demonstrating pursuit of approvals for a Final Plat in accordance
with this Ordinance. Upon receipt of this written request, the Commission may,
at its discretion, grant up to a one-year extension.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 3.04. Final Plat.
   (a)   Purpose. The Final Plat provides detailed graphic information and
associated text indicating property boundaries, easements, streets, utilities,
drainage, and other information required for the maintenance of public records
of the subdivision of land.
      (1)   A Final Plat shall be required for all subdivisions of land.
      (2)   The Final Plat shall conform to the approved Construction Plans and
approved Preliminary Plat.
   (b)   Format. Two Final Plats shall be provided and drawn on 18-inch by 24-
inch Mylar sheets at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet with all dimensions
labeled accurately to the nearest one-tenth of a foot. When more than one sheet
is necessary to accommodate the entire area, an index sheet showing the entire
subdivision at a scale of one equals 400 feet shall be attached to the plat.
Thirteen additional copies of the Concept Plan shall be provided being on paper
11 inches by 17 inches for distribution to the Commission and Council.
   (c)   Content. The Final Plat shall include all of the tract intended to be
developed at one time, shall be signed and sealed by a registered professional
engineer, licensed to practice engineering in the State of Texas, and shall
contain or have attached thereto:
      (1)   General Information.
         (i)   The proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not have the
same spelling or be pronounced similarly to the name of any other subdivision
located within the City or within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
City; provided however, that use of the same base names for different sections
or phases is required when the units are contiguous with their namesakes and
individually identified by a section number.
         (ii)   The date, scale, north point, addresses of the owner of record,
developer, registered public surveyor, and registered professional engineer if
required, platting the tract. The engineer and surveyor shall affix their seals
to the plat in conjunction with the signing of the certification requirements.
         (iii)   A location map showing the relation of the subdivision to
streets and other prominent features in all directions for a radius of at least
one mile using a scale of one inch equals 2,000 feet. The latest edition of the
USGS 7.5-minute quadrangle map is recommended.
         (iv)   Identification and location of proposed uses and reservations
for all lots within the subdivision.
         (v)   Certification, signature and revision blocks, as required by the
City and County, including but not limited to the following: the surveyor,
engineer and property owner.
         (vi)   Certification from a registered professional engineer and
approval by the State Health Department (if applicable) that water satisfactory
for human consumption is available in adequate supply at the time of
submission, except that such certification is not required if the property will
be served by the City water system.
         (vii)   Certification from Henderson County that a subdivision is
located in an area which cannot reasonably be served by an organized wastewater
collection system and that the use of septic tank or other means of disposal
has been approved by the Henderson County. Said certificate shall show the
limitations, if any, of such approval.
         (viii)   Lot area, width and depth, public utility and drainage
easements, and setbacks shall conform to the requirements as established for
the designated land use.
         (ix)   All variances approved by the Commission shall appear as a note
on the final plat.
         (x)   Where new streets are being created and named, the applicant
must have documentation from Henderson County 911 Addressing demonstrating that
the street names proposed on the Final Plat are not duplicated within the
County.
      (2)   Existing Conditions.
         (i)   The existing property lines, including bearings and distances,
of the land being subdivided. Property lines shall be drawn sufficiently wide
to provide easy identification.
         (ii)   Areas delineating the regulatory 100-year floodplain, if
applicable. This information must be certified by a registered professional
engineer.
         (iii)   The location, dimensions, names and descriptions of all
existing and recorded streets, alleys, reservations, railroads, easements or
other public rights-of-way within the subdivision, intersecting or contiguous
with its boundaries or forming such boundaries, as determined from current deed
and plat records. The existing right-of-way width of any boundary street to the
proposed subdivision shall also be shown.
         (iv)   Location of City limit lines and/or, outer border of the City's
extraterritorial jurisdiction, as depicted on the City's most recent base map,
if either such line traverses the subdivision or is contiguous to the
subdivision boundary.
      (3)   Survey Control Information.
         (i)   True bearings and distances to the nearest established street
lines, official monuments, or existing subdivision corner which shall be
accurately described on the plat and rotated to the state plane coordinate
system. Using said system, X and Y coordinates shall be identified for four
property corners.
         (ii)   The description and location of a permanent monuments or
benchmarks, standard monuments, survey control points and lot pins.
         (iii)   Suitable primary control points to which all dimensions,
bearings and similar data shall be referenced. At least one corner of the
subdivision shall be located with respect to a corner of the original survey of
which it is a part.
         (iv)   Sufficient data shall be shown on the plat for each lot to
prove mathematical closure.
      (4)   Improvements.
         (i)   The location, bearings, distances, widths, purposes and approved
names of proposed streets, alleys, easements and rights-of-way to be dedicated
to public use.
         (ii)   Streets. Provide complete curve data (delta, arc length,
radius, tangent, point of curve, point of reverse curve, point of tangent, long
chord with bearing) between all lot corner pins.
         (iii)   Watercourses and Easements. Provide distances to be provided
along the side lot lines from the right-of-way line or the high bank of a
stream. Traverse line to be provided along the edge of all major waterways in a
convenient location, preferably along a utility easement if paralleling the
drainage easement or stream.
         (iv)   The property lines and number designations of all proposed lots
and blocks, with complete bearings, distances and dimensions for front, rear
and side lot lines. The surveyor shall certify that all lots meet the City's
minimum requirements set forth herein.
         (v)   The use, property dimensions, names and boundary lines of all
special reservations to be dedicated for public use, including sites for
schools, churches parks, open spaces, nature preserves; common ownership or
subsequent development.
         (vi)   The location of building setback lines, as required by the
City's Zoning Ordinance, designated by a plat note that states the following,
or language substantially similar thereto that is acceptable to the City:
"Setbacks shall comply with the City's Zoning Ordinance."
         (vii)   Descriptions of all required easements within the subdivision,
intersecting, or contiguous with its boundaries or forming such boundaries.
         (viii)   The proposed location of sidewalks for each street, to be
shown as a dotted line inside the proposed right-of-way lines.
      (5)   Support Documents. The following supporting documents must
accompany the Final Plat:
         (i)   Developer shall include a copy of the approved application for
floodplain map amendment or revision, as required by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), if applicable.
         (ii)   If a subdivision is located in an area served by any utility
other than the City, the developer shall furnish a letter from such utility
certifying their approval of the location of the utility easements shown on the
plat and indicating the utility's intent to serve the property, except that
said letters are not required if the easements conform to those approved on the
Preliminary Plat.
         (iii)   If the construction of all improvements needed to serve the
subdivision is not completed prior to the filing of the plat for recordation
then the developer must provide financial assurance for the completion of the
remainder of these improvements in accordance with this Ordinance.
      (6)   The applicant shall be responsible for verifying the accuracy of
all data submitted.
      (7)   For Resubmittal Applications, in addition to containing the
information and documents required by this subsection (c), a transmittal letter
that describes how each reason for disapproval of the Final Plat is being
remedied or how each condition of a conditional approval is being satisfied, as
applicable and identifying the location in the Final Plat application where
each remedy or response to a condition can be found. The transmittal letter
shall further identify whether any other changes to the application have been
made other than those necessary to respond to the reasons for disapproval.
   (d)   Procedure. After approval of the Preliminary Plat and Construction
Plans for a proposed subdivision, a Final Plat for that subdivision shall be
submitted to the City for Commission approval before recordation.
      (1)   A Final Plat may be submitted for review and approval
simultaneously with Construction Plans only if the applicant elects to seek
approval under the Alternative Review Procedure set forth in Section 2.03 of
the Subdivision Ordinance at the time of submittal, provided however that the
Final Plat shall not be approved until the Construction Plans have been
approved and all required improvements have been determined by the City
Engineer to be complete or fiscal surety is posted for such improvements
including any required park improvements. If the Final Plat and Construction
Plans are to be reviewed simultaneously, a complete application for Final Plat
and a complete application for Construction Plans must be submitted to the City
simultaneously and the Alternative Review Procedure described in Section 2.03
will govern review, processing, and approval of the applications.
      (2)   Legible prints, as indicated on the application form, shall be
submitted prior to the regular meeting of the Commission at which the Final
Plat is to be heard, along with the following:
         (i)   Completed application forms and the payment of all applicable
fees.
         (ii)   Any materials or documents required by the Commission and/or
Council as a condition of Preliminary Plat approval.
         (iii)   A letter requesting any variances from the provisions of this
Ordinance, if not previously approved as part of the Preliminary Plat and
posted pursuant to the requirements this Ordinance.
         (iv)   Two copies of the deed restrictions or covenants, if such
documents are to be used. These shall be filed for record in conjunction with
the filing of the Final Plat.
         (v)   Certification from all applicable taxing authorities that all
taxes due on the property have been paid.
         (vi)   Performance and maintenance guaranteed as required by the City.
         (vii)   Any attendant documents needed to supplement the information
provided on the Final Plat.
      (3)   For projects located within the City's extraterritorial
jurisdiction, one extra copy of the above-referenced items must be provided to
the Count, for review and approval. The applicant shall be responsible for any
additional information required by the County for Final Plat approval.
      (4)   Prior to the Commission meeting at which the Final Plat is
presented, City staff shall review the plat for consistency with City codes,
policies and plans.
      (5)   The Commission meeting shall be scheduled within thirty (30) days
of the application Filing Date, or within fifteen (15) days of the Resubmittal
Date, as applicable.
      (6)   City staff shall prepare a report analyzing the Final Plat
submittal, as well as any comments received concerning the Preliminary Plat,
and recommending action on the Final Plat. If the recommended action is denial
or conditional approval, the report shall include the reasons for denial or the
conditions for approval, as applicable, and citations to the law or ordinance
that is the basis for disapproval or the conditional approval. This report
shall be available at least five (5) working days prior to the Commission
meeting.
      (7)   If the developer chooses to withdraw the Final Plat, he/she may do
so in writing delivered by noon of the third working day preceding the
Commissioning. A withdrawn Final Plat may be resubmitted and appear on the next
Commission agenda after repayment of the applicable fees and public
notification, if required.
   (e)   Approval. The Commission shall act on the request for Final Plat
approval within thirty (30) days of the Filing Date, or within sixty (60) days
of the Filing Date if the applicant's extension request has been granted.
      (1)   The failure of the Commission to act within thirty (30) days of the
Final Plat Filing Date (or within sixty (60) days of the Filing Date where an
extension has been granted) shall be deemed an approval of the plat, except as
otherwise agreed to by the applicant pursuant to
Section 2.02.
      (2)   The developer shall begin construction of the required public
improvements or file a financial surety instrument for the improvements within
six (6) months after Final Plat approval by the Commission, or such approval of
the Final Plat shall be void.
      (3)   Zoning of the tract, if applicable, that shall permit the proposed
use, or any pending zoning amendment necessary to permit the proposed use
shall, have been adopted by the Council prior to approval of the Final Plat.
      (4)   The developer should be aware that specific approvals from other
agencies may be required.
      (5)   The City engineer and developer's engineer must certify that the
design standards of Article IV have been complied with and that the development
and improvements meet sound engineering practices.
   (f)   Revision. If revision of the Final Plat is required by the Commission,
then the Final Plat shall not be recorded until the revised Final Plat has been
resubmitted and reviewed by City staff for compliance with the Commission's
requirements, and the Council's requirements, if any, established by the
Council during its consideration of the Concept Plan.
      (1)   Content. The content for a revision to a Final Plat shall be the
same as the Final Plat.
      (2)   Procedure. The procedure, including approval, disapproval, and
conditional approval for a revision to a Final Plat shall be the same as the
Final Plat.
      (3)   Support Documents. The support documents for a revision to a Final
Plat shall be the same as the Final Plat unless the Director of Development
Services deems that they are unnecessary.
   (g)   Recordation.
      (1)   Prior to the recordation of the Final Plat, one original copy of
the Final Plat shall be submitted to the City for signatures, and:
         (i)   The Final Plat shall have been approved by the Commission
pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance.
         (ii)   All conditions of Final Plat approval established by the
Commission shall have been determined to be complete by City staff.
         (iii)   Construction plans for all required improvements shall have
been approved by the City Engineer.
         (iv)   Fees in lieu of park land dedication as required by this
Ordinance, if applicable, shall have been paid.
         (v)   Performance and maintenance guaranteed for all required
improvements shall have been established pursuant to this Ordinance.
         (vi)   Copies of any agreements required providing for the proper and
continuous operation, maintenance, and supervision of any facilities that are
of common use or benefit which cannot be satisfactorily maintained, or which
have been rejected for operation and/or maintenance, by an existing public
agency shall be executed.
         (vii)   Written acceptance of all improvements required by this
Ordinance by the City Engineer or, in lieu of acceptance, assurance of
completion of said improvements pursuant to this Ordinance, shall be received
by the City.
         (viii)   Applicable fees pursuant to City ordinance shall be paid.
         (ix)   Notes shall be added to the plat describing any variances
approved by the Commission.
      (2)   City staff shall, upon determination that all provisions of this
Ordinance have been satisfied, and all the above conditions have been met,
obtain signatures certifying Final Plat approval by the Chairperson of the
Commission, and the Mayor, as attested to by the City Secretary.
      (3)   Once the original Final Plat has been certified by the Chairperson
of the Commission and the Mayor, City staff shall notify the developer that the
original Final Plat is ready for reproduction.
      (4)   The developer, at his/her own expense, shall make two photographic
Mylar copies of the original, signed Final Plat, and return the photographic
Mylar copies and the original Final Plat to the City Engineer for recordation.
      (5)   If the land area represented by the subdivision is located outside
the corporate limits of the City on the date of its filing for recordation with
the Official County Records, then it must be approved by the Commissioners
Court of the Count prior to recordation. lt shall be the responsibility of the
developer to be familiar with the process, procedures, and requirements
necessary to secure County approval. Such approval shall be evidenced by the
signature on the statement of certification by the County Judge.
      (6)   City staff shall, after the photographic Mylar copies and the
original Final Plat have been duly recorded in the Official County Records,
return the original Final Plat to the developer within five working days by
notifying the developer that the original Final Plat is available for pickup at
the office of the City Engineer.
      (7)   The City shall keep one photographic Mylar cop of the original
approved Final Plat on file as public record.
   (h)   Responsibility. Notwithstanding the approval of any Final Plat by the
Council, Commission or the City Engineer, the developer and the engineer that
prepares and submits such plats shall be and remain responsible for the
adequacy of the design and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed or
construed to relieve or waive th responsibility of the developer or his/her
engineer for or with respect to any plat submitted.
   (i)   Expiration.
      (1)   Unless the Final Plat is recorded in the Official County Records
within two (2) years after approval by the Commission, such approval of the
Final Plat shall be void, unless an extension is granted by the Commission in
accordance with this Ordinance.
      (2)   If the Final Plat expires, all fees shall be repaid as if the Final
Plat was initially being submitted.
   (j)   Extension. The developer may apply for an extension, in writing, prior
to the end of the initial two (2) year period, stating just cause for needing
the extension. Upon receipt of this written request, the Commission may, at its
discretion, grant up to a one-year extension.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 3.05. Amended Plats.
   (a)   Purpose. An Amended Plat that meets all of the informational
requirements set forth in this Ordinance may be approved and recorded by the
City without vacation of the preceding plat, without a public hearing, and
without approval of other lot owners within the platted subdivision provided
that any persons with a vested interest affected by the plat amendment signs
the plat and application; and that the purpose of the Amended Plat is:
      (1)   To correct an error in any course or distance shown on the
preceding plat; or
      (2)   To add any course or distance that was omitted on the preceding
plat; or
      (3)   To correct an error in the description of the real property shown
on the preceding plat; or
      (4)   To indicate monuments set after death, disability, or retirement
from practice of the engineer or surveyor charged with responsibilities for
setting monuments; or
      (5)   To show the proper location or character of any monument which has
been changed in location, character, or shown incorrectly on the preceding
plat; or
      (6)   To correct any other type of scrivener or clerical error or
omission as previously approved by the Commission and Council; such errors and
omissions may include, but are not limited to: lot numbers, acreage, street
names, and identification of adjacent recorded plats; or
      (7)   To correct an error in courses and distances of lot lines between
two adjacent lots where lot owners join in the application for an Amended lat
and neither lot is abolished, provided that such amendment does not attempt to
remove recorded covenants or restrictions and does not have a material adverse
effect on the property rights of the other owners in the plat; or
      (8)   To relocate a lot line in order to cure an inadvertent encroachment
of a building or improvement on a lot line or on an easement; or
      (9)   To relocate one or more lot lines between one or more adjacent lots
where the owner or owners of all such lots join in the application for the
Amended Plat, provided that such amendment does not attempt to remove recorded
covenants or restrictions, or increase the number of lots.
   (b)   Format. The format of an Amended Plat shall be the same as the format
for a Final Plat.
   (c)   Content. The content of an Amended Plat shall be the same as the
content requirements for a Short Form Final Plat.
   (d)   Procedure.
      (1)   The Amended Plat may be submitted without reapproval of a
Preliminary Plat or Construction Plans. The Amended Plat, prepared by a
surveyor, and engineer if required, and bearing their seals shall be submitted
to the City for approval before recordation of the plat.
      (2)   Legible prints, as indicated on the application form shall be
submitted to the City along with the following:
         (i)   Completed application forms and the payment of all applicable
fees.
         (ii)   Certification from all applicable taxing authorities that all
taxes due on the property have been paid.
         (iii)   Any attendant documents needed to supplement the information
provided on the plat.
         (iv)   The City shall require the following note on the Amended Plat:
This subdivision is subject to all general notes and restrictions appearing on
the plat of ___ , Lot(s) ___ , recorded at Cabinet ___ , Slide ___ of the Plat
Records of Henderson County, Texas.
   (e)   Approval. The City Engineer shall take action on any Amended Plat
meeting the requirements of this Ordinance within thirty (30) days the Filing
Date (or within sixty (60) days of the Filing Date if an extension request has
been approved). If the Amended Plat is disapproved, the City Engineer shall
notify the applicant, in writing by the thirtieth (30th) day following the
Filing Date, of disapproval, state the reasons for disapproval, and cite to the
law or ordinance that is the basis for disapproval. The failure of he City
Engineer to act within thirty (30) days of the Filing Date (or within sixty
(60) days of the Filing Date where an extension has been granted), shall be
deemed an approval of the Amended Plat, except as otherwise agreed to by the
applicant pursuant to Section 2.02. If in the City Engineer's determination,
the Amended Plat does not qualify to be revised as an Amended Plat under this
Ordinance or state law, the City Engineer shall disapprove the application in
writing, state the specific reason for disapproval, cite to the law or
ordinance that is the basis for disapproval, and may require the plat to be
processed in accordance with the Final Plat procedures of this Ordinance. An
Amended Plat shall not be approved if it is not in conformance with the Zoning
Ordinance.
   (f)   Expiration. Approval of an Amended Plat shall expire if said plat is
not recorded in the plat records of the County within two (2) years of City
approval.
   (g)   Recordation. Recordation of an Amended Plat shall follow the same
recordation provisions of a Final Plat.
   (h)   Responsibility. Notwithstanding the approval of any Amended Plat by
the City Engineer, the developer and the engineer that prepares and submits
such plats shall be and remain responsible for the adequacy of the design and
nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed or construed to relieve or waive the
responsibility of the developer or his/her engineer for or with respect to any
plat submitted.
   (i)   Extension. The developer may apply for an extension, in writing, prior
to the end of the initial two (2) year period, stating just cause for needing
the extension. Upon receipt of this written request, the Commission may, at its
discretion, grant up to a one-year extension.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 3.06. Short Form Final Plats.
   (a)   Purpose. The provision of adequate data concerning land use, utility
requirements, traffic impact, streets, easements and dedications is vital to
ensure the continued health, safety and welfare of the City's residents.
Recognizing that the significance of this data is reduced for the small scale
projects that are most heavily impacted by the burden of producing this data,
the City allows alternate procedures for simple resubdivisions, lot splits, and
the platting of existing development and of land proposed for site development
where public improvements are not required.
      (1)   Applicants for subdivisions or resubdivisions creating no more than
four (4) new lots may follow the procedure set forth below provided hat the
subdivision meets all of the following criteria:
         (i)   The City shall certify that the proposed subdivision meets all
the requirements of the Short Form Final Plat.
         (ii)   No new public street shall be necessary for each lot to access
a public street.
         (iii)   Each of the lots is contiguous with at least one of the other
lots in the subdivision for a distance of at least 50 feet.
         (iv)   No off-site improvements to the City's infrastructure are
determined to be necessary by the City Engineer.
         (v)   No off-site drainage improvements are determined to be necessary
by the City Engineer.
      (2)   The Commission may require the standard Final Plat procedures
outlined this Ordinance, if the City determines that the plat is inconsistent
with any element of the Master Plan, or any established City ordinances, codes
or policies.
   (b)   Format. The format of the Short Form Final Plat shall correspond with
the format for Final Plats as required by this Ordinance.
   (c)   Content The content of the Short Form Final Plat shall correspond with
the content for Final Plats as required by this Ordinance, except that:
      (1)   Construction plans may not be required.
      (2)   The City may permit omission of any informational requirements that
are determined by the City to place an excessive burden on the applicant,
including, but not limited to contours, centerlines of existing watercourses,
etc.
      (3)   The City shall require the following note on the Final Plat: This
subdivision is subject to all general notes and restrictions appearing on the
plat of ___ , Lot(s) __ recorded at Cabinet ___ , Slide ___ of Plat Records
Henderson County, Texas.
   (d)   Procedure. The procedure for review and approval of a Short Form Final
Plat shall follow the procedure for Final Plats, except that:
      (1)   The Short Form Final Plat may be submitted without approval of a
Preliminary Plat or Construction Plans. The plat, prepared by a surveyor, and
engineer if required, and bearing their seals shall be submitted to the
Commission for approval before recordation of the plat.
      (2)   Legible prints, as indicated on the application form, shall be
submitted prior to the regular meeting of the Commission at which the Short
Form Final Plat is to be heard, along with the following:
         (i)   Completed application forms and the payment of all required
fees.
         (ii)   Two copies of the deed restrictions or covenants, if such
documents are to be used. These shall be filed for record in conjunction with
the filing of the plat.
         (iii)   Certification from all applicable taxing authorities that all
taxes due on the properly have been paid.
         (iv)   Notification materials as required herein.
         (v)   A petition requesting annexation, if applicable.
         (vi)   Any attendant documents needed to supplement the information
provided on the plat.
      (3)   For projects located within the City's extraterritorial
jurisdiction, one extra copy of the above-referenced items must be provided to
the Count for review and approval. The applicant shall be responsible for any
additional information required by the County for Short Form Final Plat
approval.
   (e)   Approval. The approval process of a Short Form Final Plat shall be the
same as the approval of a Final Plat.
   (f)   Revision. The revision process of a Short Form Final Plat shall be the
same as the revision process described for a Final Plat.
   (g)   Recordation. The recordation procedures of a Short Form Final Plat
shall be the same as the procedures for a Final Plat.
2023 S-13
   (h)   Responsibility. Notwithstanding the approval of any Short Form Final
Plat by the Commission, Council or City Engineer, the developer and the
engineer that prepares and submits such plats shall be and remain responsible
for the adequacy of the design and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed or
construed to relieve or waive the responsibility of the developer or his/her
engineer for or with respect to any plat submitted.
   (i)   Expiration.
      (1)   Unless the Short Form Final Plat is recorded in the Official County
Records within two (2) years after approval by the Commission, such approval of
the Short Form Final Plat shall be void, unless an extension is granted by the
Commission in accordance with this Ordinance.
      (2)   If the Short Form Final Plat expires, all fees shall be repaid as
if the Short Form Final Plat was initially being submitted.
   (j)   Extension. The developer may apply for an extension, in writing, prior
to the end of the initial two (2) year period, stating just cause for needing
the extension. Upon receipt of this written request, the Commission may, at its
discretion, grant up to a one-year extension.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 3.07. Vacation of Undeveloped Subdivision and Replats.
   (a)   When no lots on a plat of subdivision have been sold, the developer
may request the vacation of the plat prior to the time that the improvements
covered by the guarantees are installed, and when such plat is vacated, all
fiscal sureties shall be returned to the developer.
   (b)   A concept plan, preliminary plat and final plat shall be required for
the replat of any lot, tract, parcel or plat that does not qualify for
treatment as a short form subdivision. Save and except for the mandatory
notices, the procedures to be followed for a replat shall be the same as for
the subdivision of any other tract or parcel of land. Compliance with the
notice requirements for a replat shall be mandatory.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 3.08. Notification requirement for certain replats.
   (a)   A replat without vacation of the preceding plat must conform to the
requirements of this section if:
      (1)   During the preceding five years, any of the area to be replatted
was limited by an interim or permanent zoning classification to residential use
for not more than two residential units per lot; or
      (2)   Any lot in the preceding plat was limited by deed restrictions to
residential use for not more than two residential units per lot.
   (b)   Notice of the hearing required under Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code § 212.014
shall be given before the 15th day before the date of the hearing by:
      (1)   Publication in an official newspaper or a newspaper of general
circulation in the county in which the municipality is located; and
      (2)   By written notice, with a copy of subsection (c) attached,
forwarded by the municipal authority responsible for approving plats to the
owners of lots that are in the original subdivision and that are within 200
feet of the lots to be replatted, as indicated on the most recently approved
municipal tax roll or in the case of a subdivision within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction, the most recently approved county tax roll of the property upon
which the replat is requested. The written notice may be delivered by
depositing the notice, properly addressed with postage prepaid, in a post
office or postal depository within the boundaries of the city.
   (c)   If the proposed replat requires a variance and is protested in
accordance with this subsection, the proposed replat must receive, in order to
be approved, the affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the members
present of the municipal planning commission or governing body, or both. For a
legal protest, written instruments signed by the owners of at least 20 percent
of the area of the lots or land immediately adjoining the area covered by the
proposed replat and extending 200 feet from that area, but within the original
subdivision, must be filed with the city planning commission or governing body,
or both, prior to the close of the public hearing.
   (d)   In computing the percentage of land area under subsection (c), the
area of streets and alleys shall be included.
   (e)   Compliance with subsections (c) and (d) is not required for approval
of a replat of part of a preceding plat if the area to be replatted was
designated or reserved for other than single or duplex family residential use
by notation on the last legally recorded plat or in the legally recorded
restrictions applicable to the plat.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
ARTICLE IV. DESIGN STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS
Section 4.01. Generally.
   (a)   Additional Regulations. In addition to the requirements established by
this Ordinance, all development within the City limits shall be designed so as
to comply with the intent and provisions of the Zoning Ordinance, building and
housing codes, Master Plan, regulations of the Texas Department of
Transportation and the Texas Department of Health, and any other applicable law
or regulation adopted by a unit of federal, state or local government; and all
development within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City shall comply
with this ordinance and all other applicable laws and regulations adopted by a
unit of federal, state or local government.
   (b)   Standards in General. The minimum design standards as contained herein
shall provide the basic criteria for evaluating proposed development. The City
may, however, establish reasonable design requirements in excess of these
established minimum standards, or grant variances from those established
minimum standards, where by reason of exceptional topographic, cultural,
historic, archaeological, hydrologic, or other physical conditions. If the
property to be developed or of an adjacent tract, the strict adherence to these
standards will result in an inappropriate subdivision design or cause
unnecessary hardship.
   (c)   Coordinated Design. The quality of life and the community in the
Trinidad urban area is dependent on the quality of design of the individual
developments in which people live and work. Good community design requires the
coordination of the efforts of each developer of land within the urban area. It
is intended that the urban area shall be designed as a group of integrated
residential neighborhoods and appropriate commercial, industrial and public
facilities. Therefore, the design of each development shall be prepared in
accordance with the applicable principles established by the Master Plan for
land use, circulation, community facilities and public utility services and in
accordance with the following general principles:
      (1)   The neighborhood, as a planning unit, is intended as an area
principally for residential use, and of a size that can be served by one
elementary school. Space for recreational, educational and shopping facilities
to serve the residents of the neighborhood should be provided and designed as
an integral part of each neighborhood. The size of lots and blocks should be
designed to provide for adequate water and wastewater service, traffic
circulation, light, air, open space, landscaping and off-street parking. The
arrangement of lots and blocks and the street system should be designed to make
the most advantageous use of topography and natural physical features. Tree
masses and large individual trees should be preserved to the greatest extent
possible. The system of sidewalks and roadways and the lot layout should be
designed to take advantage of the visual qualities of the area.
      (2)   The components of the street system should in different degrees
serve the separate purposes of access to property and safe, efficient movement
of traffic. Land use types should be served by roadways whose capacity
increases in proportion to the traffic generation of the land use. Design and
location of points of access to property should be appropriate to the volume
and speed characteristics of traffic utilizing the intersection.
      (3)   An open space system throughout the urban area should provide a
range of active and passive recreation opportunities. Park, open space and
recreation facilities should be located with sensitivity to user population,
natural features, traffic generation, and nearby land use.
      (4)   Land use arrangement and design should minimize the difference in
intensity between adjacent uses in order to provide for the provision of water,
wastewater and roadways sufficient to serve the proposed densities and provide
for compatible neighboring developments. Step-down patterns of use surrounding
major activity centers, combined with buffering techniques, should ensure that
residential densities are compatible with each other, and that residential
development is not adversely impacted by higher intensity uses.
      (5)   Public utilities and infrastructure should be provided within all
subdivisions in order to ensure the health, safety and well-being of the
public. Utility capacity should be sufficient to meet accepted standards of
service to reasonably anticipated development. Where excess capacity in utility
lines or facilities within a subdivision will further the efficient and
desirable extension of utilities to adjacent property, equitable provision of
such capacity is essential to the orderly growth of the urban area.
      (6)   Construction of water, wastewater, drainage, gas, electric,
telephone and cable television utilities that require utility cuts of a public
street shall e repaired pursuant to applicable City ordinances.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 4.02. Drainage Improvements.
   (a)   Purpose. The drainage improvement provisions contained herein are
deemed necessary for the following reasons:
      (1)   Waterways and their associated watersheds within the City's
territorial jurisdiction represent significant and irreplaceable recreational
and aesthetic resources and contribute directly to the City's public health.
      (2)   The continued economic growth of the City is dependent on an
adequate quality and quantity of stormwater runoff, a pleasing natural
environment, recreational opportunities in close proximity to the City as well
as the protection of people and property from the hazards of flooding.
      (3)   All watersheds within the City's jurisdiction, and especially those
with abrupt topography, sparse vegetation, and thin and easily disturbed soil,
are vulnerable to flooding due to unregulated development activities.
      (4)   All watersheds within the City's jurisdiction are undergoing
development or are facing development pressure.
      (5)   If watersheds within the City's Jurisdiction are not developed in a
sensitive and innovative manner, their water resources, natural environment,
and recreational characteristics may be irreparably damaged.
      (6)   The City should regulate all drainage within the City's
jurisdiction for the public benefit and safety, including both the existing and
future generations of citizens of the City, as well as for downstream users of
the each waterway within the City's territorial jurisdiction.
   (b)   Policy.
      (1)   The Commission shall not recommend approval or approve any plat or
plan which does not meet the minimum requirements of this Ordinance in making
adequate provisions for control of the quantity of stormwater runoff to protect
the public health, safety and property, and benefit the present and future
owners of property within the development, other lands within the City and
neighboring areas.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the developer to design and
construct a system for the collection and transport of all stormwater runoff
flowing into, and generated within the development, in accordance with:
         (i)   The requirements of this Ordinance.
         (ii)   Good engineering practices.
         (iii)   Approved engineering plans for construction.
         (iv)   The regulations and principles of law established pursuant to
the Texas Water Code.
      (4)   In general, drainage improvements shall be designed and constructed
in a manner which promotes the development of a network of both natural and
built drainageways throughout the community and so as to:
         (i)   Retain natural floodplains in a condition that minimizes
interference with floodwater conveyance, floodwater storage, aquatic and
terrestrial ecosystems, and ground and surface water.
         (ii)   Reduce exposure of people and property to the flood hazards and
the nuisances associated with inadequate control of stormwater runoff.
         (iii)   Systematically reduce the existing level of flood damages.
         (iv)   Ensure that corrective works are consistent with the overall
goals of the City.
         (v)   Minimize erosion and sedimentation problems and enhance water
quality.
         (vi)   Protect environmental quality, social well-being and economic
stability.
         (vii)   Plan for both the large flooding events and the smaller, more
frequent flooding events by providing both major and minor drainage systems.
         (viii)   Minimize future operational and maintenance expenses.
         (ix)   Reduce exposure of public investment in utilities, streets and
other public facilities (infrastructure).
         (x)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the public.
         (xi)   Acquire and maintain a combination of recreational and open
space systems utilizing floodplain lands.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 4.03. Transportation Improvements.
   (a)   Purpose. The planning for a thoroughfare system is essential for the
continued efficient movement of people and goods, and the Master Plan shall
serve as a guide for the location and scale of future collector and arterial
streets. The precise alignment of thoroughfares included in the Plan may be
varied to allow adjustments that increase the compatibility of the right-of-way
with natural or man-made features such as steep slopes, waterways, wildlife
habitats, neighborhoods, historic structures or existing roadways.
   (b)   Policy.
      (1)   Street layout. Adequate streets shall be provided by the subdivider
and the arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of each
shall conform to the comprehensive plan of the City and professional urban
planning and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned
streets, to topographical conditions, to public safety and convenience, and in
their appropriate relationship to the proposed uses of land to be served by
such streets. The street layout shall be devised for the most advantageous
development of the entire neighborhood.
      (2)   Relation to adjoining street system. Where necessary to the
neighborhood pattern, existing streets in adjoining areas shall be continued,
and shall be at least as wide as such existing streets and in alignment
therewith.
      (3)   Projection of streets. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided the
arrangements of streets in the subdivision shall make provision for the proper
projection of streets into such unsubdivided areas.
      (4)   Street jogs. Whenever possible, street jogs with centerline offsets
of less than 125 feet shall be avoided.
      (5)   Street intersection. Street intersections shall be as nearly at
right angles as practicable, giving due regard to terrain and topography.
      (6)   Dead-end Streets. Dead-end streets shall be prohibited except as
short stubs to permit future expansion.
      (7)   Cul-de-sacs. In general, cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 600 feet in
length, and shall have a turnaround of not less than 100 feet in diameter in
residential areas, and not less than 100 feet in diameter in commercial and
industrial areas.
      (8)   Marginal access streets. Where a subdivision has frontage on an
arterial street, there shall be provided a marginal access street on both sides
or on the subdivision side of the arterial street, if the arterial street
borders the subdivision, unless the adjacent lots back up to the arterial
street, or unless the Commission determines that such marginal access streets
are not desirable under the facts of a particular case for adequate protection
of the lots and separation of through and local traffic.
      (9)   Streets on comprehensive plan. Where a subdivision embraces a
street as shown on a comprehensive plan of the City, such street shall be
platted in the location and of the width indicated by the comprehensive plan.
      (10)   Minor Street. Minor streets shall be laid out so as to discourage
their use by through traffic.
      (11)   Pavement widths and rights-of-way. Pavement widths, which shall be
curb back to curb back, and rights-of-way shall be as follows:
         (i)   Major Arterial streets shall have right-of-way widths and
pavement widths in accordance with the following table and standard details:
 
Street         Type      Lanes Abbreviation ROW Width Pavement Width
Major Arterial Undivided 4     MAU 4        86 feet   62 feet
Major Arterial Undivided 5     MAU 5        100 feet  74 feet
Major Arterial Divided   4     MAU 4        114 feet  66 feet
Major Arterial Divided   6     MAU 6        140 feet  90 feet
 
         (ii)   Minor Arterial, 3 Lanes (MNR 3) streets hall have a right-of-
way width of at least 74 feet, with a pavement width of at least 50 feet.
         (iii)   Primary Collector streets shall have a right-of-way of at
least 64 feet and a pavement width of at least 45 feet.
         (iv)   Minor streets shall have a right-of-way of at least 50 feet
with a pavement width of at least 31 feet.
2023 S-13
         (v)   Nonresidential marginal access streets shall have a right-of-way
width of at least 60 feet and a pavement width of at least 36 feet.
         (vi)   Residential marginal access streets shall have a right-of-way
width of at least 50 feet and a pavement width of at least 31 feet.
      (12)   Pavement and rights-of-way width for adjacent streets:
         (i)   The subdivider shall dedicate a right-of-way of 86 feet in width
for new adjacent arterial streets, and 58 feet of such right-of-way shall be
paved.
         (ii)   New adjacent collector, minor or marginal access streets shall
conform to Paragraph (b)(11) of this Section.
         (iii)   Where the proposed subdivision abuts upon an existing street
or half-street that does not conform to Subsection (b)(11) of this Section, the
subdivider shall dedicate right-of-way sufficient to make the full right-of-way
width conform to Subsection (b)(11), and there shall be paved so much of such
right-of-way as to make the full pavement width comply with Subsection (b)(11).
Before any pavement is laid to widen existing pavement, the existing pavement
shall be cut back two feet to assure an adequate sub-base and pavement joint.
      (13)   Curbs. Curbs shall be installed by the subdivider on both sides of
all interior streets, and on the subdivision side of all streets forming part
of the boundary of the subdivision.
   (c)   Street Lighting. Street lighting shall be installed by the developer
for all new streets within the jurisdiction of the City and shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with City standard details and specifications, if
any.
   (d)   Street Signage. Street signs shall be installed by the developer at
all intersections within and immediately adjacent to a proposed development and
shall be designed and constructed in accordance with City standard details and
specifications, if any.
   (e)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be installed by the developer on both sides
of all streets within and immediately adjacent to a proposed development and
shall be designed and constructed in accordance with City standard details and
specifications, if any. The construction of sidewalks need not be completed
prior to the final approval and acceptance of a final plat but must be
completed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or within two
years from the approval of the final plat. A cost estimate for the construction
of any sidewalks, not constructed prior to the final approval and acceptance of
the final plat, shall be prepared and a bond for 110 percent of such costs
shall be posted with the City. Each year the Developer and City may agree to
the additional sidewalks completed during the previous year and reduce the
amount of the bond to reflect the construction costs of the sidewalks that have
been completed. Sidewalks not completed prior to the end of the two-year period
shall be completed by the Developer and by the City with the bond funds.
Failure to provide sufficient bonds or complete the sidewalks shall not
obligate the City to build sidewalks but be a continuing obligation of the
developer.
   (f)   Streets and Roads. In addition to designing, installing and
constructing all reasonably necessary and useful streets, roads and alleys
within the boundaries of the Subdivision, the developer shall be responsible
for the dedication of additional right-of-way required for the streets and
roads adjacent to and abutting the boundaries of the Subdivision, and the cost
and expense of widening and improving any such street or road to the centerline
thereof.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 4.04. Water Utility Improvements.
   (a)   Policy. Developers shall be responsible for providing approved public
water supply system consistent with the Master Plan, this Ordinance and the
rules and regulations of the entity providing or to provide water to the
development.
      (1)   Where an approved public water supply or distribution main is
within reasonable distance of the subdivision as determined by the Commission,
but in no case less than one-half-mile away and connection to the system is
both possible and permissible, the developer shall be required to bear the cost
of connecting the development to such existing water supply. In some instances,
the City may request that the main water connection be oversized or rerouted to
suit future water system improvements in that area. In such cases, the City
will reimburse the developer the costs of oversizing or rerouting such
connections.
      (2)   The developer shall, consistent with all existing ordinances, make
a pro-rata contribution to funding of needed storage facilities, treatment
facilities, and specific distribution lines as dete1mined necessary by the
City. Under extraordinary circumstances, these provisions may be varied with
the approval of the Council and Commission.
   (b)   Design.
      (1)   The design and construction of a public water system shall:
         (i)   Comply with regulations covering extension of public water
systems adopted by the TCEQ;
         (ii)   Be of sufficient size to furnish adequate domestic water supply
and fire protection services to all lots;
         (iii)   Be located where maintenance can be accomplished with the
least interference with traffic, structures and other utilities;
         (iv)   Be designed in an effort to eliminate the need for boos ter
pumps or other similar devices;
         (v)   Not propose water mains less than eight inches in diameter, with
consideration for six inch pipe in cul-de-sacs;
         (vi)   Be acceptable, without penalty, to the State Fire Insurance
Commission. To that end, the following fire flows shall be required:
            (A)   Principal mercantile and industrial areas: 3,000 gpm.
            (B)   Light mercantile areas: 1,500 gpm.
            (C)   Congested residential areas: 1,000 gpm.
            (D)   Scattered residential areas: 1,000 gpm.
         (vii)   Include fire hydrants:
            (A)   At a maximum spacing of 500 feet for residential
developments;
            (B)   Within 300 feet of all sides of a no residential development.
            (C)   At the end of all cul-de-sac streets, or similar dead-end
water distribution lines; and
            (D)   For fire flows calculated with 20-pound residual pressure.
         (viii)   Include valves on each fire hydrant lead, at each
intersection of two or more mains, and valve spacing so that no more than 30
customers will be without water during a shut-off;
         (ix)   Be designed and constructed in accordance with City standard
details and specifications, if any; and
         (x)   Be designed and constructed to comply with all applicable rules,
regulations and policies of the entity that will provide water service to the
development.
      (2)   The design of private water systems shall include backflow
prevention assemblies for domestic and fire protection systems that are
directly or indirectly connected to the City's potable water distribution
system.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 4.05. Wastewater Utility Improvements.
   (a)   Policy. Developers shall be responsible for providing an approved
wastewater system, consistent with the Master Plan, this Ordinance and the
rules and regulations of the entity providing or to provide wastewater service
to the development, throughout the development, such that all lots, parcels, or
tracts of land will be capable of connecting to the wastewater system except as
otherwise provided herein.
      (1)   Where an approved public wastewater collection main is within
reasonable distance of the subdivision as determined by the Commission, but in
no case less than one-half-mile away and connection to the system is both
possible and permissible, the developer shall be required to bear the cost of
connecting his development to such existing wastewater system. In some
instances, the City may request that the main wastewater connection be
oversized or rerouted to suit future wastewater system improvements in that
area. In such cases, the City will reimburse the developer the costs of
oversizing or rerouting such connections.
      (2)   The developer shall, consistent with all existing ordinances, make
a pro-rata contribution to funding of needed lift station facilities, treatment
facilities, and specific collection lines as determined necessary by the City.
Under extraordinary circumstances, these provisions may be varied with the
approval of the Council and Commission.
   (b)   Design. The design and construction of wastewater collection systems,
lift stations, inverted siphons and septic systems shall comply with
regulations covering extension of public wastewater systems, and other
applicable regulations, adopted by the TCEQ, Henderson County (outside of City
Limits) and the Texas Department of Health. Under extraordinary circumstances,
these provisions may be varied with the approval of the Council and Commission.
      (1)   All new public wastewater systems shall be designed and constructed
to operate on a gravity flow basis by taking advantage of natural topographic
conditions and thereby reducing the need for lift stations and force mains.
      (2)   Flow determinations should include generally accepted criteria for
average daily flow, inflow and infiltration, peaking factors, minimum slopes
and minimum flow velocities.
      (3)   The minimum size of any public wastewater line will be eight inches
in diameter.
      (4)   Public wastewater lines shall be located where maintenance can be
accomplished with the least interference with traffic, structures and other
utilities. Minimum separation distance from water utilities shall be in
accordance with the rules adopted by the TCEQ.
      (5)   Manholes shall be located so as to facilitate inspection and
maintenance, including intersections, horizontal alignment changes, vertical
grade changes, change in pipe size or material, and force main discharge
points.
      (6)   All wastewater appurtenances shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with City standard details and specifications, if any.
      (7)   All wastewater systems shall be designed and constructed to comply
with all applicable rules, regulations and policies of the entity that will
provide wastewater service to the development.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 4.06. Blocks and Lots.
   Except as provided otherwise in this Section, the terms and provisions of
the Zoning Ordinance establishing the minimum lot area, width, setback line,
side yard and rear yard requirements for each zoning or use category are
incorporated herein by reference. Such regulations and standards shall be
applied to property within the City limits based upon the zoning of the
property and to property within the extraterritorial jurisdiction based on
agreement of, and the land use proposed by, the developer.
   (a)   Blocks.
      (1)   The length, width, and shape of blocks shall meet the following
standards:
         (i)   Provide adequate building sites (lots) suitable to the special
needs of the type of use designated on the plat;
         (ii)   Accommodate lots of the size and dimensions required by this
Section;
         (iii)   Provide for convenient access, circulation, control, and
safety of street traffic;
         (iv)   Minimize reductions in the capacity of adjacent streets insofar
as possible by reducing the number of turning movement conflicts;
         (v)   Provide an appropriate response to the limitations and
opportunities of topography;
         (vi)   Increase the ability of building sites (lots) to receive or to
be protected from solar gain as the season requires in order to improve utility
efficiency and increase the livability of each lot.
      (2)   Residential blocks shall not exceed 1,300 feet nor be less than 500
feet in length, except as otherwise provided for herein.
      (3)   Blocks along arterial streets all not be less than 1,600 feet.
      (4)   The width of blocks shall be sufficient to accommodate two tiers of
lots with minimum depth as required by this Section, exceptions to this width
shall be permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads, waterways,
or other topographical features prohibiting a second lot tier.
      (5)   The Commission may, at the Preliminary Plat phase, require the
dedication of an easement or right-of-way not less than ten feet wide bisecting
the center of any block in excess of 800 feet in length to accommodate
utilities, drainage facilities, and/or pedestrian access to greenbelts or park
areas.
      (6)   Blocks shall be identified on each plat by consecutive adjacent
numbers within each subdivision and portion thereof. Blocks forming a
continuation of a previous subdivision block shall continue the block number.
   (b)   Lots. All land area within the boundaries of the subdivision or
resubdivision except that area specifically dedicated as public right-of-way
for any purpose shall be designated as a lot.
      (1)   The required lot area, width, building setback line, front, side,
street side and rear yard requirements for each lot as established in the
Zoning Ordinance are incorporated herein by reference.
         (i)   Within the City limits such requirements and standards shall be
based on the zoning of the property, and
         (ii)   Within the extraterritorial jurisdiction, such requirements and
standards shall be consistent with similar uses as defined in the Zoning
Ordinance.
      (2)   The minimum lot size for all lots shall be dependent upon the
availability of central sewage disposal system service.
         (i)   Lots to be served by the central sewage system shall have a
minimum area as provided in the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance for the
zoning or proposed land use. Except as specifically permitted for certain uses
as authorized by the Zoning Ordinance, the minimum size of any lot developed
within the corporate limits of the City or its ETJ shall be 7,000 square feet.
The minimum size of any lot developed for any residential subdivision shall be
7,000 square feet.
         (ii)   Lots to be served by septic systems shall have a minimum of
43,560 square feet and conform to the County regulations based on percolation
tests.
      (3)   Each lot shown on a plat shall be clearly designated by a number
located within the boundaries of the lot. The boundaries of each lot shall be
shown by bearing and distance in relation to the monuments found or established
on the ground in conformance with this Ordinance.
      (4)   For developments within the corporate limits of the City, the
proposed use for each lot shall be indicated on the plat, and in accordance
with the City's Zoning Ordinance, as currently amended.
      (5)   For developments outside the corporate limits of the City, but
within the City's extraterritorial jurisdiction, the proposed use for each lot
shall be indicated on the plat, and consistent with similar uses as defined in
City's Zoning Ordinance, as currently amended.
      (6)   All lots shall be rectangular, except when the street alignment is
curved, in order to conform with other provisions of this Ordinance.
      (7)   No lot shall have a corner intersection of less than 45 degrees.
      (8)   The ratio of average depth to average width shall not exceed two
and one-half to one (2.5:1) nor be less than one and one-half to one (1.5:1)
unless the lot is at least one and one-half times the required lot size, unless
both the depth and width of the lot exceed the minimums required in this
Ordinance, and the City finds that the proposed lot dimensions are consistent
with surrounding development and the Master Plan.
      (9)   All lots shall face and have contiguous frontage on a usable,
dedicated public road right-of-way except lots within a PDD which may have
similar frontage on a private street under common ownership. The extent of this
frontage (front line) shall conform to the minimum lot width requirements set
forth in the City's Zoning Ordinance. Lots in the ETJ shall have a minimum lot
width of seventy (70) feet of frontage.
      (10)   Except as otherwise approved though the granting of a variance,
all lots shall face a similar lot across the street.
      (11)   Lot lines common to the street right-of-way line shall be the
front line. Side lot lines shall project away from the front line at
approximately at right angles to street lines and radial to curved street
lines. The rear line shall be opposite and approximately parallel to the front
line.
         (i)   The length and bearing of all lot lines shall be indicated on
the plat; and
         (ii)   Wherever feasible, lots arranged such that he rear line of a
lot or lots is also the side line of an adjacent lot shall be avoided. When
this occurs, ten feet (10') shall be added to the minimum lot width and the
side building line adjacent to the rear yard of another lot.
      (12)   Lot area, width, and depth shall conform to the requirements as
established in the Zoning Ordinance. For developments outside the corporate
limits of the City, but within the City's extraterritorial jurisdiction, lot
size shall be consistent with similar uses as defined in the Zoning Ordinance.
      (13)   Double Frontage Lots.
         (i)   Residential lots shall not take access on two non-intersecting
local and/or collector streets, and
         (ii)   Residential lots adjacent to an arterial street shall also have
frontage on a local street. Vehicular access to these lots shall be from the
local street only. Nonresidential lots with double frontage shall have offset
access points to inhibit cut-through traffic.
      (14)   Reverse Frontage Lots. Residential lots with rear yards facing
highways, access roads, and major or minor arterial streets should be at least
130 feet in depth so as to provide adequate rear yard area for screening and
buffering of the rear of the structure, as required by this Ordinance.
      (15)   Corner Lots.
         (i)   Lots having frontage on two or more intersecting streets shall
be classified as corner lots;
         (ii)   Corner lots adjacent to streets of equal classification shall
have only one access driveway on either of the intersecting streets, except as
otherwise approved by the Commission;
         (iii)   Corner lots adjacent to streets of unequal classification
shall access the lower classification street only and only one drive approach
shall be allowed, except as otherwise approved by the Commission;
         (iv)   Corner lots shall contain at least one street side building
setback line; and
         (v)   Corner residential lots shall be ten feet wider than the average
interior lot on the same block.
      (16)   Building Setback Lines.
         (i)   Each lot shall have a building setback line which runs parallel
to the property line.
         (ii)   The front and rear building setback lines shall run between the
side lot lines.
         (iii)   The side building setback lines, and streetside building
setback lines for corner lots, shall extend from the front building setback
line to the rear building setback line.
         (iv)   The building setback line for each designated lot shall conform
to the City's Zoning Ordinance, as currently amended. For developments outside
the corporate limits of the City, but within the City's extraterritorial
jurisdiction, building setback lines shall be consistent with similar uses as
defined in the Zoning Ordinance.
         (v)   All building setback lines shall be indicated on the subdivision
plat. For nonresidential developments, a note stating that "all building
setback lines shall be in accordance with the City's current Zoning Ordinance"
shall be placed on the plat.
      (17)   Yard Areas. The area between the property line and the front, side
or rear building setback line shall be the required front, side and rear yard
areas, respectively.
         (i)   No structure or impervious construction shall be allowed in the
front yard area except for fences, driveways, sidewalks, utility distribution
lines and appurtenances within dedicated easements and rights-of-way, and/or
drainage structures; and
         (ii)   No structures or impervious construction shall be allowed in
required side or rear building setback areas except for the following accessory
structures on one, two or three family residential lots:
            (A)   Swimming pools located at least three feet from the property
line and screened by a six-foot tall privacy fence;
            (B)   Playscapes not taller than nine feet above mean grade,
located at least three feet from the prope1ty line and screened by a six-foot
tall privacy fence; and/or
            (C)   Satellite dishes or telecommunications devices not taller
than nine feet above mean grade, located at least three feet from the property
Line and screened by a six-foot tall privacy fence.
            (D)   Driveways to side entry garages.
      (18)   Lot Access.
         (i)   A minimum of one all-weather access area (either individually,
or common to more than one lot) or driveway shall be provided for each lot
connecting the lot to an existing or proposed dedicated public street. An
exception may be made for lots within a PDD which may have similar access to a
private street. Each lot shall front upon a public street or, in the case of a
PDD, have access by way of access easement sufficient to meet the requirements
of fire prevention.
         (ii)   All driveway approaches shall be constructed to conform with
the provisions of this Ordinance, and the City standard details and
specifications, if any.
      (19)   Lot Numbering.
         (i)   All lots are to be numbered consecutively within each block. Lot
numbering may be cumulative throughout the subdivision if the numbering
continues from block to block in a uniform manner that has been approved on an
overall preliminary plat.
         (ii)   Any lot(s) being resubdivided shall be renumbered utilizing the
original lot number, followed by a letter designation starting with A.
      (20)   Lot Easements. Public utility easements on side and rear lot lines
shall be required as needed to accommodate public utility and drainage
appurtenances, and as specified in this Ordinance.
      (21)   Lot Drainage. Lot drainage shall be in conformance with the
requirements of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 4.07. Easements.
   (a)   All existing and proposed easements, safety lanes, and rights-of-way
shall be clearly indicated on the plat or plan, as well as an indication as to
the use of each easement or right-of-way.
   (b)   No permanent structure may be placed in or over any easement or right-
of-way except a structure whose use and location are necessary to the
designated use of the right-of-way or easement or which otherwise will not
affect the use, maintenance or repair of such easement.
   (c)   The width and alignment of all easements or rights-of-way to be
dedicated shall be determined by the City Engineer, any applicable utility
provider and the Commission, and approved by the Commission, and shall be
accompanied by a notarized statement of dedication on the plat.
   (d)   Easements shall be established and dedicated for all public utility
and drainage appurtenances, including common access areas, and other public
uses requiring dedication of property rights.
   (e)   Insofar as practicable, easements shall not be centered on a property
line, but shall be located entirely on one side of a lot.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 4.08. Park Land Dedication.
   (a)   Dedication of Public Park Land Required. It shall be required that a
developer of any residential subdivision within the City's territorial
jurisdiction set aside and dedicate to the public sufficient and suitable lands
for the purpose of public park land in accordance with the provisions of this
Ordinance.
      (1)   All plats receiving Final Plat approval based on this Ordinance
shall conform to the requirements of this section as a condition of approval.
      (2)   The Council and developer may negotiate the combination of public
park land dedication to satisfy the provisions of this Ordinance.
      (3)   In the event the developer offers to dedicate land for a City Park
classification that is defined in and/or located at a site established in the
Master Plan, that meets the design standards of this Ordinance, and that is two
or more acres in size, and that the Council finds is appropriate and suitable
land for a regional city park, the City shall be obligated to accept the park
land dedication; provided that the Council may waive such requirement, or may
designate a different tract of parcel to be dedicated.
   (b)   Design Standards for Park Land. Any land to be dedicated as City
Parkland shall be reasonably located near the geographical boundary of a
development, be adaptable for use as a public park and recreation facility as
defined by the Master Plan and be designed and located so as to satisfy the
following general requirements.
      (1)   City Park dedicated land should form a single parcel of tract of
land at least two acres in size unless it is determined that a smaller tract is
in the public interest, and the smaller tract is contiguous to land that will
be reasonably available for dedication or for purchase by the City.
      (2)   Public access to public park land delineated on a Preliminary Plat
shall be ensured by provision of at least 100 feet of street frontage, in a
manner satisfactory to the City. Likewise, adequate space for public parking
should also be considered.
      (3)   At the time the land abutting the delineated areas is developed,
the developer of such abutting land shall construct streets along all abutting
street frontage, and shall provide water and wastewater utilities to the
boundary of one side of the delineated area to meet minimum requirements of
this Ordinance.
      (4)   The land to be dedicated to meet the requirements of this Ordinance
should be suitable for public parks and recreation activities. In that regard,
50 percent of the dedicated land area should not exceed five percent grade. The
Master Plan for the City shall be considered when evaluating land proposals for
dedication.
      (5)   Any disturbed parkland shall be restored and the soil stabilized by
vegetative cover by the developer.
      (6)   Areas within the 100-year floodplain may not be utilized to meet
City Parkland dedication requirements.
      (7)   The location of parkland may be required at the edge of a
subdivision so that additional land may be added at such time as adjacent land
is subdivided or acquired for public use. Otherwise a centralized location is
preferred.
      (8)   City staff shall make recommendations based upon the park land
design standards and the provisions contained herein, concerning the amount and
location of parkland, credit for private parkland and/or facilities, credit for
land in the 100-year floodplain.
      (9)   All park areas and playground equipment shall be in accordance with
the U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission, Publication 325, as amended.
   (c)   Neighborhood Park Land Credit. Where park areas and recreational
facilities are to be provided in a proposed subdivision, and where such areas
and facilities are to be privately owned and maintained by the future residents
of the subdivision, these areas and facilities shall be considered to satisfy
the requirements of park land dedication if the following standards are met:
      (1)   That the private ownership and maintenance of such areas and
facilities are adequately provided for by recorded written agreement,
conveyance, or restrictions.
      (2)   That the use of such areas and facilities are restricted for park
and recreational proposes by a recorded covenant, which runs with the land in
favor of the future owners of property and which cannot be defeated or
eliminated without the consent of the City Council.
      (3)   That such areas and facilities are reasonably similar to what would
be required to meet public park and recreational needs, taking into
consideration such factors as size, shape, topography, geology, access, and
location.
      (4)   That such areas and facilities for which credit is given shall
include improvements for the basic needs of a local park. These improvements
shall include one or more of the following: children's play areas, picnic
areas, game court areas, turf play fields, swimming pools, recreational
buildings, trails (sidewalks, walkways or bike trails), and landscaped sitting
areas.
      (5)   The land dedicated as a Neighborhood Park and the cost of the
improvements required to be made to the park prior to Final Plat approval are
equal to or exceed the parkland requirements of this Ordinance.
   (d)   Method of Dedication. Land accepted for dedication under the
requirements of this Ordinance shall be conveyed by either of the following
methods:
      (1)   By dedication within the plat to be filed for record in Official
County Records.
      (2)   By warranty deed transferring the property in fee simple to the
City.
      (3)   In any event, land must be free and clear of any mortgages or liens
at the time of such dedication or conveyance.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 4.09. Water and Wastewater Services in the ETJ.
   (a)   Applicability. This section applies to the extension of water and
wastewater services to property not within the City Certificate of Convenience
and Necessity ("CCN") but within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City
("ETJ"). The use of term “services” in this section shall mean City water and/
or wastewater services on a retail or wholesale basis.
   (b)   Annexation Required. No property in the ETJ, but not in the City's
CCN, shall receive services until it is first annexed into the City limits,
except as pursuant to subsection (c), herein. A property owner requesting the
extension of services to a property located in the ETJ shall first request in
writing that the City annex the area proposed to be serviced and shall comply
with any and all requirements for annexation under the Texas Local Government
Code, as amended, to authorize the City to annex the property. If the City
Council agrees to initiate proceedings on the requested annexation, such
annexation shall be completed prior to the extension of City services to the
property.
   (c)   Conditions Under Which Services may be Provided in the ETJ Prior to
Annexation. The City Council may determine, in its sole discretion, to provide
services in the ETJ without first annexing the property upon:
      (1)   compliance with the conditions set forth below; and
      (2)   a determination by the City Council that the provision of services
is in the best interest of the City.
   (d)   Adequate capacity exists. There is adequate capacity of City services
available for the purpose of servicing residential and commercial users outside
the City without impairing services within the City's service area. Whether
such adequate capacity exists shall be determined solely by the City Engineer,
and the determination of the City Engineer shall be final.
   (e)   Protection of resources. The extension of services shall not lead to
significant degradation of water quality or other environmental resources, or
cause or have the potential to cause the City's non-compliance with any local,
State, or federal regulations or statutes.
   (f)   Owners outside City limits to bear costs of service facilities and
furnish easements. The property owner requesting service shall be responsible
for all costs relating to the design and construction of service facilities.
The property owner shall also furnish suitable construction and permanent
easements and rights-of-way for utility lines.
   (g)   Construction to conform to City standards. All design and construction
of service facilities shall be in accordance with City standards and
specifications.
   (h)   New subdivisions to comply with City subdivision regulations. New
subdivisions recorded after the date of passage of this section desiring
services shall comply with the subdivision regulations of the City of Trinidad,
Texas, in effect at the time such new subdivision is approved.
   (i)   City to have right of review. The City shall have the right to review
and approve all plats and plans where service is to be provided. The property
owner requesting the service shall pay for all reviews in accordance with the
Trinidad Fee Schedule, as amended.
   (j)   Water and sewer facility requirements. Water service will not be
provided to residential and commercial users who utilize private sewage
facilities.
   (k)   Service lines to meet ultimate requirements of the City. All service
lines shall be sized to serve the ultimate requirements of the City.
   (l)   City may reimburse owner for oversized service lines. Where the
service lines required to meet the ultimate requirements for the City are
larger than the total capacity required to serve the tract of land to be
developed, the City may enter into a contract with the property owner
constructing the service lines for reimbursement for the excess capacity.
   (m)   Extended service lines to be inspected by the City. All service lines
and facilities extending from existing City facilities to any tract of land
outside the City limits requesting service shall be inspected by the City's
Engineering Department. The property Owner requesting the service shall pay for
inspections in accordance with the Fee Schedule, attached as Appendix A, as may
be amended.
   (n)   Wholesale service to another retail public utility. Any provision of
City services on a wholesale basis to another retail public utility in the
City's ETJ will be governed by a separate wholesale service agreement approved
by the City Council incorporating terms and conditions determined by the City
Council to be in the best interest of the City. Expenses incurred by the City
in the negotiation and execution of a wholesale service agreement shall be
reimbursed by the property owner or retail public utility requesting the
wholesale se ice.
   (o)   Development agreement. The property owner shall enter into a
development agreement with the City identifying specific design standards, use
restrictions, connection of public infrastructure as deemed necessary by the
City Engineer, commitment to allow annexation of the property and to comply
with any and all requirements to facilitate the annexation under the Texas
Local Government Code, and any other terms determined by the City Council to be
in the best interest of the City.
   (p)   Rates. The rates paid by residential and commercial use s located in
the ETJ for services shall be in accordance with the Fee Schedule, attached as
Appendix A, as maybe amended.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
ARTICLE V. IMPROVEMENTS
Section 5.01. Completion of Improvements.
   (a)   Purpose. The provisions of this Ordinance, as set forth in this
Section, are designed and intended to ensure that, for all subdivisions of land
within the jurisdiction of the City, all improvements as required herein are
installed in a timely manner in order that:
      (1)   The City can provide for the orderly and economical extension of
public facilities and services.
      (2)   All purchasers of property within the subdivision shall have a
usable, buildable parcel of land.
      (3)   All required improvements are constructed in accordance with the
City standard details and specifications, if any.
   (b)   General Policy.
      (1)   Upon approval of a Final Plat, Amended Plat or Short Form Plat by
the Commission, and prior to it being signed by the Chairperson of the
Commission and the Mayor of the City, and before said Final Plat, Amended Plat
or Short Form Plat shall be allowed to be recorded in the Plat Records of the
County, the applicant requesting plat approval shall, within the time period
for which the Plat has been conditionally approved by the City:
         (i)   Construct all improvements as required by this Ordinance, and
provide a surety instrument guaranteeing their maintenance as required herein;
or
         (ii)   Provide a surety instrument guaranteeing construction of all
improvements required by this Ordinance, and as provided for herein.
      (2)   In all instances, the original copy of the Final Plat, Amended Plat
or Short Form Plat, without benefit of required signatures of City Officials,
shall be held in escrow by the City and shall not be released for any purpose
until such time as the conditions of this Section are complied with.
      (3)   Upon the requirements of this Section being satisfied, the Final
Plat, Amended Plat or Short Form Plat shall be considered fully approved,
except as otherwise provided for in this Ordinance, and the original copy of
the Plat shall be signed by the appropriate City officials and City staff shall
file said Plat in the Plat Records of the County.
      (4)   All improvements shall be designed and installed so as to provide
for a logical system of utilities, drainage and streets and to create
continuity of improvements for the development of adjacent properties. Water,
wastewater, transportation and drainage improvements shall be extended to the
perimeter of the development, except that the Commission is authorized to vary
or modify the requirement for extending water, wastewater, transportation and
drainage improvements to the perimeter of a subdivision in accordance with the
procedural requirements contained in this Ordinance.
   (c)   Completion of Improvements. Prior to the signing of the approved Final
Plat, Amended Plat or Short Form Plat by the Chairman of the Commission and
Mayor of the City of Trinidad, the developer shall:
      (1)   Complete all improvements required by this Ordinance in accordance
with the approved Construction Plans and subject to the approval of the City
Engineer and acceptance by the City, except as otherwise provided for in this
Ordinance.
      (2)   Construct all sidewalks as shown on the approved Construction Plans
and according to the City standard details and specifications, if any.
Sidewalks must be constructed and approved for each lot prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy, unless sufficient bonds are provided as set forth in
Section 5.01(d)(1).
   (d)   Alternative to Completing Improvements. The City may waive the
requirement that the developer complete all improvements required by this
Ordinance prior to the signing of the approved Plat, contingent upon securing
from the developer a guarantee, as provided for by this Section, for completion
of all required improvements, including the City's cost for collecting the
guaranteed funds and administering the completion of improvements, in the event
the developer defaults. The Commission and Council must be notified that this
waiver was granted at the time of Preliminary Plat approval or in the case of
Amended Plats or Short Form Plats upon notice and approval. Such guarantee
shall take one of the following forms:
      (1)   Performance Bond. The developer shall post a performance bond with
the City, as set forth herein, in an amount equal to 110 percent of the
estimated construction costs for all remaining required improvements, using a
form acceptable to the City.
      (2)   Escrow Account. The developer shall deposit cash, or other
instrument readily convertible into cash at face value, either with the City,
or in escrow with a bank or savings and loan institution. The use of any
instrument other than cash shall be subject to the approval of the City. The
amount of the deposit shall equal 110 percent of the estimated construction
costs for all remaining required improvements. In the case of any escrow
account, the developer shall file with the City an agreement between the
financial institution and the developer guaranteeing the following:
         (i)   That the funds of said escrow account shall be held in trust
until released by the City and may not be used or pledged by the developer as
security in any other matter during that period.
         (ii)   That in the case of a failure on the part of the developer to
complete said improvements, the financial institution shall immediately make
the funds in said account available to the City for use in the completion of
those improvements. Such escrow account agreement shall be prepared using a
form acceptable to the City.
      (3)   Letter of Credit. The developer shall provide a letter of credit
from a bank or other reputable institution or individual. This letter shall be
submitted to the City and shall certify the following:
         (i)   That the creditor does guarantee funds equal to 110% of the
estimated construction costs for all remaining required improvements.
         (ii)   That, in the case of failure on the part of the developer to
complete the specified improvements within the required time period, the
creditor shall pay to the City immediately, and without further action, such
funds as are necessary to finance the completion of those improvements, up to
the limit of credit stated in the letter.
         (iii)   That this letter of credit may not be withdrawn, or reduced in
amount, until approved by the City according to provisions of this Ordinance.
Such Letter of Credit shall be prepared using a form acceptable to the City.
      (4)   Cost Estimates. A registered professional engineer licensed to
practice in the State of Texas shall furnish estimates of the costs of all
required improvements to the City Engineer who shall review the estimates in
order to determine the adequacy of the guarantee instrument for insuring the
construction of the required facilities.
      (5)   Surety Acceptance. The bank, financial institution, insurer, person
or entity providing any letter of credit, bond or holding any escrow account,
pursuant to this Ordinance, shall meet or exceed the minimum requirements
established by City ordinance and shall be subject to approval by the City as
provided in the ordinances of the City.
      (6)   Sufficiency. Such surety shall comply with all statutory
requirements and shall be satisfactory to the City Attorney as to form,
sufficiency, and manner of execution as set forth in this Ordinance. All such
surety instruments shall be both a payment and performance guarantee.
      (7)   If the project is located in the extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the City, and is subject to the bonding requirements of the County for the
construction of roadways, then that amount of money shall be reduced from the
amount required to be posted with the City, provided that the instrument is
transferable from the County to the City upon annexation.
   (e)   Time Limit for Completing Improvements. The period within which
required improvements must be completed shall be incorporated in the surety
instrument and shall not in any event, without prior approval of the City,
exceed one year from date of Final, Amended or Short Form Plat approval.
      (1)   The Commission may, upon application of the developer and upon
proof of hardship, recommend to the Council extension of the completion date
set forth in such bond or other instrument for a maximum period of one
additional year. Such hardship may include delays imposed due to City projects.
An application for extension shall be accompanied by an updated estimate of
construction costs prepared by a registered professional engineer, licensed to
practice in the State of Texas. A surety instrument for guaranteeing completion
of remaining required improvements must be filed in an amount equal to 110
percent of the updated estimate of construction costs as approved by the City
Engineer.
      (2)   The Council may at any time during the period of such surety
instrument accept a substitution of principal sureties upon recommendation of
the Commission
   (f)   Failure to Complete Improvements. Approval of all plats shall be
deemed to have expired in subdivisions for which no assurances for completion
have been posted or the improvements have not been completed within one year of
plat approval, unless otherwise approved by the City. In those cases where a
surety instrument has been required and improvements have not been completed
within the terms of said surety instrument, the City may declare the developer
and/or surety to be in default and require that all the improvements be
installed.
   (g)   Inspection and Acceptance of Improvements. The City Engineer shall
inspect all required improvements, to ensure compliance with City requirements
and approved Construction Plans.
      (1)   When all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed,
the City Engineer shall either:
         (i)   Accept, in writing, the improvements as having been
satisfactorily completed, or
         (ii)   Issue a punch list to the developer denoting items remaining to
be completed.
      (2)   The City Engineer shall have ten working days to complete this
inspection upon notification by the developer.
      (3)   The City Engineer shall issue the report within ten working days of
the date of inspection.
      (4)   The City shall not accept dedications of required improvements nor
release or reduce a performance bond or other assurance, until such time as it
determines that:
         (i)   All improvements have been satisfactorily completed.
         (ii)   Two copies of as-built plans have been submitted to and
approved by the City Engineer, along with a statement prepared by a licensed
professional engineer that all improvements have been installed and constructed
in accordance with the submitted as-built plans.
         (iii)   Copies of all inspection reports, shop drawings and certified
test results of construction materials have been submitted to and approved by
the City Engineer.
         (iv)   Diskette(s) containing computed-generated drawings of all
public improvements shown on the Construction Plans have been submitted to the
City Engineer to update City record drawings.
         (v)   The required maintenance guarantee has been provided.
         (vi)   Any and all other requirements identified in the platting
process have been satisfied.
   (h)   Reduction or Release of Improvement Surety Instrument.
      (1)   A surety instrument may be reduced with the approval of the City
Engineer, and the City Administrator, upon actual construction of required
improvements by a ratio that the improvement bears to the total public
improvements required for he subdivision, as determined by the City Engineer.
      (2)   Before the City shall reduce said surety instrument, the developer
shall provide a new surety instrument in an amount equal to 110 percent of the
estimated cost of the remaining required improvements, and such new surety
instrument shall comply with this Ordinance.
      (3)   The substitution of a new surety instrument shall in no way change
or modify the terms and conditions of the performance surety instrument or the
obligation of the developer as specified in the performance surety instrument.
      (4)   In no event shall a surety instrument be reduced below ten percent
of the principal amount of the original estimated total costs of improvements
for which surety was given, prior to completion of all required improvements.
      (5)   The City shall not release a surety instrument unless and until all
the conditions of this Ordinance have been met.
   (i)   Maintenance Bond Required.
      (1)   Before the release of any surety instrument guaranteeing the
construction of required subdivision improvements or the signing of the Final,
Amended or Short Form Plat where subdivision improvements were made prior to
the filing of the plat for recordation, the developer shall furnish the City
with a guarantee and maintenance bond or other surety instrument to assure the
quality of materials and workmanship, and maintenance of all required
improvements including the City's costs for invoking the surety instrument and
administer the correction and/or replacement of covered improvements in the
event the developer defaults.
      (2)   The warranty and maintenance bond or other surety instrument shall
be satisfactory to the City Attorney as to form, sufficiency, and manner of
execution.
      (3)   Said warranty or other instrument shall be in an amount equal to
100 percent of the cost of improvements verified by the City Engineer and shall
run for a period of one calendar year measured from the date of release of the
performance surety instrument, or signing and recording of the Final Plat,
whichever is later.
      (4)   Said maintenance bond or other instrument shall be in an amount
equal to ten percent of the cost of improvements verified by the City Engineer
and shall run for a period of one calendar year measured from the date of
release of the warranty bond.
      (5)   In an instance where a warranty or maintenance bond or other surety
instrument has been posted and a defect or failure of any required improvement
occurs within the period of coverage, the City will require performance under
bond or surety instrument.
   (j)   Plans for Improvements. Plans for the improvements required by this
Ordinance shall be prepared, reviewed and approved in accordance with the
provisions set forth in this Ordinance.
   (k)   Acceptance of Improvements.
      (1)   During the course of installation and construction of the required
improvements, the City Engineer or his/her designated representative shall make
periodic inspections of the work to ensure that all improvements comply with
City requirements.
      (2)   Upon completion of all required improvements, the developer may
seek acceptance of all public improvements by the City by following the
procedures set forth in the applicable sections of this Ordinance.
   (l)   Maintenance of Improvements. Where a subdivision contains drainage,
transportation, water or wastewater improvements, parks and grounds held in
common or, other physical facilities necessary or desirable for the welfare of
the area, or that are of common use or benefit which will not be, or cannot be,
satisfactorily maintained by an existing public agency, provision shall be made
which is acceptable to the City Council for the proper and continuous
operation, maintenance, and supervision of such facilities. A copy of the
agreements providing for the proper and continuous operation, maintenance and
supervision of such facilities shall be presented to and approved by the
Council, and approved as to form by the City Attorney, at the time of Final
Platting and shall be filed of record with the plat thereof.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
ARTICLE VI. ADMINISTRATION
Section 6.01. General.
   For all development of land within the scope of this Ordinance, a plan of
the development shall be prepared and submitted to the City for approval or
disapproval, as provided for in this Ordinance.
   (a)   City Responsibilities. The City shall administer the provisions of
this Ordinance and in furtherance of such authority, the City shall:
      (1)   Maintain permanent and current records with respect to this
Ordinance, including amendments thereto.
      (2)   Receive and file all Concept Plans, Preliminary Plats, Construction
Plans, and Final Plats together with applications therefor.
      (3)   Forward copies of the Preliminary Plat, Construction Plans, and
Final Plat to the County, when the development is located within the City's
extraterritorial jurisdiction.
      (4)   Review all Concept Plans, Preliminary Plats, Construction Plans,
Amended Plats, Short Form Plats and Final Plats to determine whether such plats
comply with this Ordinance, the Master Plan, applicable laws, and the Zoning
Ordinance, where applicable.
      (5)   Forward plans and plats to the Commission as required by this
Ordinance, together with its recommendations thereon.
      (6)   If required, forward plans and plats to the Council, together with
the recommendations of the Commission and City staff.
      (7)   Make such other determinations and decisions as may be required of
the City by this Ordinance, the Commission or the Council.
   (b)   Interpretation of Provisions. In the interpretation and application of
the provisions of this Ordinance, the following regulations shall govern:
      (1)   In the City's interpretation and application, the provisions of
this Ordinance shall be regarded as minimum requirements for the protection of
the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, prosperity and welfare. This
Ordinance shall be regarded as remedial and shall be liberally construed to
further its underlying purposes.
      (2)   Whenever both a provision of this Ordinance and any other provision
of this Ordinance, or any provision in any other law, ordinance, resolution,
rule or regulation of any kind contains any restrictions covering any of the
same subject matter, whichever restrictions are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or requirements shall govern.
      (3)   Where there arises a question concerning the meaning or intent of a
provision of this Ordinance, the City is hereby implored to render a written
decision setting forth the exact manner in which said provision shall be
interpreted and administered. In the event exception is taken by any interested
party to such a decision the matter shall be appealed to the Commission, and,
as appropriate, to the City Council, whose decision shall be final.
      (4)   Any written decision shall be attached to and made a part of this
Ordinance, until rescinded by amendment of this Ordinance as provided for
herein.
      (5)   The terms, provisions and conditions of this Ordinance shall be
interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with Tex. Loc. Gov't. Code Ch.
212, and, particularly as to property within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the City.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 6.02. Voluntary Annexation.
   For projects located in the City's extraterritorial jurisdiction, and at the
time of subdivision plat or development plan submittal, the developer should
consider making a request for voluntary annexation to the City of Trinidad,
Texas, for any subdivision or development which will impact the City and have
effect on any of the following:
   (a)   City water and wastewater utilities.
   (b)   City services (including police, fire, sanitation, emergency
services).
   (c)   City park and recreation facilities.
   (d)   City's drainage system.
   (e)   Other City facilities (including library, streets, hospital, etc.).
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 6.03. Variances.
   A variance to the provisions of this Ordinance shall be considered an
exception to the regulations, rather than a right. Whenever a tract to be
developed is of such unusual size or shape or is surrounded by development of
such unusual conditions that the strict application of the requirements
contained in this Ordinance would result in substantial hardship or inequity,
the Commission may vary or modify, except as otherwise indicated, such
requirement of design as provided for herein, but not of procedure or
improvements, so that the developer may improve his/her property in a
reasonable manner, but so that, at the same time, the public welfare and
interests of the City are protected and the general intent and spirit of this
Ordinance, the Master Plan and Zoning Ordinance are preserved in accordance
with the following provisions:
   (a)   Jurisdiction. When a written request for a variance from the design
requirements of this Ordinance is filed:
      (1)   The Commission may approve such written request for variances to
the design standards and such variance(s), if granted, shall also be considered
to be a modification of the zoning regulations, but not the zoning districts,
applicable to the specified property within such development within the City
limits; or
      (2)   Would constitute a major departure from the applicable provisions
of this Ordinance for such features as: lot size, setback lines, etc., such
variance request shall be considered by the Council in accordance with its
powers and procedures as set forth in the Zoning Ordinance, and their decision
shall be final; and
      (3)   After giving notice of such requested variances, the Commission may
consider each such variance request during the course and process of
considering the application for subdivision plat approval given or granted.
   (b)   Notification. The notification procedures for variance requests shall
be the same as the notification procedures described for a Concept Plan.
   (c)   Approval. In granting approval of a request for variance, he
Commission and Council shall conclude that the variance is not contrary to the
public interest and, due to special conditions, a literal enforcement of this
Ordinance would result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the variance
observes the spirit of this Ordinance and concludes that substantial justice is
done. The Commission and Council shall meet these requirements by making
findings that:
      (1)   The public convenience and welfare will be substantially served;
      (2)   The appropriate use of surrounding property will not be
substantially or permanently impaired or diminished;
      (3)   The applicant has not created the hardship from which relief is
sought;
      (4)   The variance will not confer upon the applicant a special right or
privilege not commonly shared or available to the owners of similar and
surrounding property;
      (5)   The hardship from which relief is sought is not solely of an
economic nature;
      (6)   The variance is not contrary to the public interest;
      (7)   Due to special conditions, the literal enforcement of the ordinance
would result in an unnecessary hardship; and
      (8)   In granting the variance the spirit of the ordinance is observed
and substantial justice is done.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 6.04. Conditions for Issuing a Building Permit, Issuing a Site
Development Permit, or Accepting Improvements.
   No improvements to be accepted by the City for ownership, maintenance and
operation shall be accepted; no building permit shall be issued for any new
structure or change, improvement or alteration of any existing structure, on
any lot or tract of land and site development permit shall be issued for any
lot or tract of land; and no municipal utility service will be furnished to
such lot or tract which does not comply with the provisions of this Ordinance
and all applicable provisions of the City's Ordinances, except as herein
exempted or specifically exempted by the City Council or upon the written
application and approval of a variance. Every official and employee of the city
vested with the duty or authority to issue an approval, permit or certificate
shall not issue an approval, permit or certificate for any application, plan,
plat, use, building, improvement, or purpose that conflicts with any provision
of this Ordinance. Any approval, permit, or certificate issued in conflict with
the provisions of this Ordinance shall be null and void.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 6.05. Fees.
   To defray the costs of administering this Ordinance, the applicant seeking
plat approvals shall pay to the City, at the time of submittal, the prescribed
fees as set forth in the current Fee Schedule, attached hereto as Appendix A
approved by the Council, and on file in the office of the City, together with
all engineering and other professional fees and expenses incurred by the City
for and with respect to such application and plat.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 6.06. Amendments.
   The Council may, from time to time, adopt, amend and make public rules and
regulations for the administration of this Ordinance. This Ordinance may be
enlarged or amended by the Council after public hearing, due notice of which
shall be given as required by law.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 6.07. Violations.
   Except as otherwise provided for in this Ordinance, it shall be unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to develop, improve or sell any lot, parcel,
tract or block of land within the City's territorial jurisdiction for other
than agricultural purposes, regardless of the size or shape of said lot,
parcel, tract or block, unless such lot, parcel, tract or block of land
conforms with this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
Section 6.08. Enforcement.
   (a)   Penalty. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
Ordinance, or shall fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements
thereof, within the City limits shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall
be liable for a fine not to exceed the sum of $2,000.00. Each day the violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense. Such penalty shall be in addition
to all the other remedies provided herein.
   (b)   Administrative Action. The City Engineer and/or the City Administrator
shall enforce this Ordinance by appropriate administrative action, including
but not limited to the rejection of plans, maps, plats and specifications not
found to be in compliance with this Ordinance and good engineering practices,
and the issuance of stop work orders.
   (c)   Court Proceedings. Upon the request of the City Council, the City
Attorney or other authorized attorney shall file an action in the district
courts to enjoin the violation or threatened violation of this Ordinance, or to
obtain declaratory judgment, and to seek and recover court costs and attorney
fees, and/or to recover damages in an amount sufficient for the City to
undertake any construction or other activity necessary to bring about
compliance with a requirement regarding the property and established pursuant
to this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 4-19-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Codes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS CODES
TEXAS ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
 
Texas Administrative Code References Code Section
Title 30, Ch. 111                    91.20
Title 30, Ch. 319, Subch. B          51.23
 
TEXAS ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CODE
Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code References Code Section
Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code References Code Section
                                         113.03;
Ch. 11                                   113.05;
                                         113.07
11.38                                    113.03
11.38(d)                                 113.03
11.41                                    113.05
Ch. 11, Subch. C                         113.07
                                         113.03;
Ch. 61                                   113.05;
                                         113.07
61.36                                    113.03
Ch. 61, Subch. C                         113.07
109.33                                   113.09
 
TEXAS CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
Texas Code of Criminal Procedure References Code Section
Texas Code of Criminal Procedure References Code Section
Art. 18.01                                  94.10
Art. 18.02, Subdivision (8)                 94.10
Ch. 62                                      132.11
Art. 62.001(5)                              132.11
Art. 62.005                                 132.11
Art. 102.0172                               30.020
                                            
 
TEXAS FAMILY CODE
 
Texas Family Code References Code Section
Ch. 31                       130.03
51.03                        130.04
52.01                        130.04
51.08                        130.99
 
TEXAS HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE
 
Texas Health and Safety Code References Code Section
341.064                                 132.11
481.134                                 132.11
Title 9, Sub. A, Ch. 757                Ch. 151, App. A, Section V.
Ch. 822                                 94.06;
                                        94.18
821.077                                 94.25
                                        
 
TEXAS HUMAN RESOURCES CODE
 
Texas Human Resources Code References Code Section
42.002                                132.11
                                      
 
TEXAS LOCAL GOVERNMENT CODE
Texas Local Government Code References Code Section
Texas Local Government Code References Code Section
22.071 et seq.                         31.015
Ch. 42                                 Ch. 153, App. A, Section 1.02
Ch. 51                                 52.001;
                                       90.001
Ch. 53                                 10.01
54.001                                 10.99
102.001                                31.019
103.001                                31.019
150.021(b)                             31.016
201.001 et seq.                        30.003;
                                       30.004
                                       Ch. 151, App. A, Section IV-B.;
Ch. 21100                              Ch. 151, App. A, Section VII.;
                                       Ch. 151, App. A., Section VIII.
211.008                                Ch. 151, App. A, Section VII.
                                       Ch. 151, App. A, Section IV-B.;
Ch. 212                                Ch. 153, App. A, Section 1.04;
                                       Ch. 153, App. A, Section 6.01
212.015                                Ch. 153, App. A, Section 1.02
212.014                                Ch. 153, App. A, Section 3.08
212.016                                Ch. 153, App. A, Section 1.02
                                       150.21;
Ch. 214                                150.29;
                                       150.30
214.001                                150.29
Ch. 283                                92.03
Ch. 402                                52.001
Ch. 551                                30.115
                                       
 
TEXAS OCCUPATION CODE
 
Texas Occupation Code Code Section
1201.003              Ch. 151, App. A, Section III.
1202.001              Ch. 151, App. A, Section III.
1202.002              Ch. 151, App. A, Section III.
                      
 
TEXAS PENAL CODE
 
Texas Penal Code Code Section
Subch. D         131.02
Subch. E         131.02
                 
 
TEXAS TAX CODE
 
Texas Tax Code    Code Section
References
152.001           114.01
Ch. 156           114.02
156.001           114.01
Ch. 351, Subch. B 114.10
                  
 
TEXAS TRANSPORTATION CODE
 
Texas Transportation Code References Code Section
Title 7, Subtitle A, Ch. 501         70.16
Ch. 501                              70.35;
                                     70.38
                                     70.35;
Ch. 683                              70.41;
                                     70.42
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         32.070;
                     32.071
                     51.20—
–      - -         51.37;
                     51.99
6        9-6-1955    30.065;
                     30.066
                     50.01—
56-11    2-22-1956   50.08;
                     50.99
57-3     10-10-1957  150.03;
                     150.99
                     70.01;
58-2     8-30-1958   70.02;
                     70.99
58-3     8-30-1958   70.23;
                     70.99
60-5     7-5-1960    131.01;
                     131.99
                     32.015—
67-6     6-26-1962   32.025;
                     32.999
67-3     5-2-1967    Ch. 71, Sch. II
30       3-3-1970    Ch. 71, Sch. II
70-1     7-7-1970    51.01;
                     51.99
56-15    4-18-1978   31.001
                     32.040—
79-2     2-6-1979    32.045;
                     32.047—
                     32.050
                     93.01—
79-1     2-20-1979   93.12;
                     93.99
101      11-6-1979   32.001;
                     32.002
103      11-6-1979   31.035—
                     31.037
106      2-19-1980   53.20—
                     53.37
110      9-15-1981   Ch. 71, Sch. II
116      2-22-1983   53.01—
                     53.05
–      3-13-1984   Ch. 71, Sch. II
–      6-11-1991   51.02;
                     51.99
                     150.22—
95-03    3-13-1995   150.30;
                     150.99
96-01    2-13-1996   Ch. 72, Sch. I
                     70.35—
96-06    12-10-1996  70.45;
                     70.99
97-      3-11-1997   31.015—
                     31.020
                     70.16;
                     70.20—
                     70.22;
97-03    7-8-1997    70.24;
                     70.25;
                     70.28;
                     70.99
98-0210A 2-10-1998   Ch. 71, Sch. II
                     111.01—
980811   8-11-1998   111.07;
                     111.99
                     92.25—
990713   7-13-1999   92.27;
                     92.99
990810   8-10-1999   30.035—
                     30.039
                     91.15—
991025   10-25-1999  91.21;
                     91.99
                     91.17;
991214   12-14-1999  91.20;
                     91.21;
                     91.99
2000-004 8-8-2000    54.01
                     30.080;
2001-002 2-20-2001   30.081;
                     30.999
                     30.020;
2002-006 9-17-2002   30.021;
                     30.022
                     112.01;
–      --2003      112.19 —
                     112.22;
                     112.99
2003-006 9-16-2003   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2004-008 12-21-2004  31.055—
                     31.059
2005-002 3-15-2005   30.001—
                     30.005
                     92.01—
2006-003 3-22-2006   92.13;
                     92.99;
                     Ch. 92, App. A
2006-007 7-18-2006   92.01
2006-014 11-29-2006  150.01;
                     150.99
2007-004 9-18-2007   30.050
2008-002 4-15-2008   32.051—
                     32.056
                     90.001—
                     90.004;
                     90.015—
                     90.018;
                     90.020;
                     90.035—
2008-005 8-19-2008   90.039;
                     90.050—
                     90.060;
                     90.075—
                     90.079;
                     90.090—
                     90.096;
                     90.999
                     130.01—
2008-006 8-19-2008   130.04;
                     130.99
                     91.17;
2008-011 10-11-2008  91.20;
                     91.21
                     94.02—
2008-012 11-18-2008  94.27;
                     94.29;
                     94.99
2008-015 12-16-2008  Ch. 71, Sch. I
2009-001 1-20-2009   152.01
2009-003 1-20-2009   150.01;
                     150.99
                     94.02—
2009-005 2-17-2009   94.29;
                     94.99
                     70.16;
                     70.20—
                     70.22;
2009-008 4-21-2009   70.24;
                     70.25;
                     70.28;
                     70.99;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. I
                     70.55—
2009-009 5-18-2009   70.62;
                     70.99
2009-012 9-15-2009   150.01
                     90.001—
                     90.004;
                     90.015—
                     90.020;
                     90.035—
2009-013 10-20-2009  90.039;
                     90.050—
                     90.060;
                     90.075—
                     90.079;
                     90.090—
                     90.096
2009-015 11-17-2009  Adopting Ordinance
2010-001 1-19-2010   152.01
                     70.15—
                     70.18;
2010-003 4-21-2010   70.22;
                     70.26—
                     70.28;
                     70.99
                     94.01—
2010-004 4-21-2010   94.29;
                     94.99
2010-007 7-20-2010   53.20—
                     53.37
2010-010 10-19-2010  30.095—
                     30.102
                     132.01—
2011-006 12-20-2011  132.03;
                     132.99
2012-001 2-21-2012   Adopting Ordinance
                     94.01—
2012-005 6-19-2012   94.29;
                     94.99
2012-009 8-21-2012   91.01;
                     91.99
                     150.20—
2012-008 10-16-2012  150.30;
                     150.99
                     113.01—
2012-010 11-16-2012  113.10;
                     113.99
2013-001 2-19-2013   Adopting Ordinance
                     130.01—
2013-002 5-21-2013   130.04;
                     130.99
2013-003 6-18-2013   150.01;
                     150.99
2013-010 11-19-2013  31.070
                     110.01 —
2014-002 3-18-2014   110.08 ;
                     110.99
2014-003 7-29-2014   Adopting Ordinance
                     132.10—
2014-005 8-19-2014   132.15;
                     132.99
                     90.120—
2015-001 3-18-2015   90.123;
                     90.999
                     70.15—
                     70.22;
2015-005 3-17-2015   70.24—
                     70.28;
                     70.99
2017-001 2-2-2017    150.01;
                     150.99
2017-002 2-21-2017   Adopting Ordinance
                     90.001—
                     90.004;
                     90.015—
                     90.020;
                     90.035—
                     90.039;
2018-002 3-20-2018   90.050—
                     90.060;
                     90.075—
                     90.079;
                     90.090—
                     90.096;
                     90.999
2018-005 7-19-2018   Adopting Ordinance
2018-008 7-31-2018   30.115
2018-012 11-27-2018  150.01;
                     150.99
2018-013 11-27-2018  150.01
                     95.01 -
2019-001 - -         95.04;
                     95.99
2019-003 3-29-2019   112.01;
                     112.15
                     52.001-
                     52.004;
                     52.025-
                     52.028;
                     52.045-
2019-005 8- -2019    52.052;
                     52.065;
                     52.068;
                     52.080;
                     52.081;
                     52.095;
                     52.096;
                     114.01—
2019-008 10-15-2019  114.12;
                     114.99
2019-009 12-17-2019  Adopting Ordinance
2021-005 10-26-2021  151.01;
                     Ch. 151, App. A
2022-002 4-19-2022   153.01;
                     Ch. 153, App. A
                    
 
