City of Wake Village
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2018 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 9-17, passed 12-11-2017
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 07-09
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF WAKE VILLAGE, TEXAS,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Wake
Village, Texas, are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient
in form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper
conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Texas empower and
authorize the city to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any existing
ordinances and allow new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to
incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the City Council of the city has authorized a general compilation,
revision and codification of the ordinances of the city of a general and
permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WAKE
VILLAGE, TEXAS:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City as revised, amended, restated,
codified and compiled in book form are hereby adopted and shall constitute the
"Code of Ordinances of the City of Wake Village, Texas".
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
            TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
               10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
               11.   City Standards
            TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
               30.   Body of Government; Elected Officials
               31.   Appointed Officials
               32.   City Organizations
               33.   Public Records
               34.    Emergency Management; Police and Fire Departments
               35.    Taxation
               36.   City Finances; Funds and Fees
               37.   City Policies
               38.   Personnel Policies
            TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
               50.    City Utilities
               51.    Solid Waste
               52.   Electricity Regulations
               53.   Gas Service Regulations
               54.   Water Regulations
               55.   Sewer Regulations
            TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
               70.    General Regulations
               71.    Parking Regulations
               72.    Traffic Schedules
               73.   Parking Schedules
            TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
               90.   Animals
               91.   Fire Prevention and Regulations
               92.   Nuisances, Sanitation and Environment
               93.   Junked and Abandoned Motor Vehicles
               94.   Smoking Prohibitions
               95.   Fair Housing
               96.   Streets and Parks
            TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
               110.    General Regulations
               111.    Sales Regulations
               112.    Solicitors, Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants, Transient
Vendors
               113.    Massage Parlors
               114.    Sexually Oriented Businesses
            TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
               130.   General Offenses
               131.   Curfew
            TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
               150.    General Regulations
               151.    Dangerous Buildings
               152.    Trailer, Mobile Home, and Manufactured Home Parks
               153.    Flood Damage Prevention
               154.    Subdivision Regulations
               155.    Zoning Regulations
   Section 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in the Code of Ordinances or as this Code of Ordinances is hereafter
amended either by previously or subsequently enacted ordinances that have not
been included in this codification as of the date of its adoption; provided,
this repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any
right established prior to the effective date of this ordinance, nor shall this
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication
of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other
public places; nor shall this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary
or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the
Code of Ordinances.
   Section 4. This Code of Ordinances shall be deemed published as of the day
of its adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of
Wake Village, Texas, is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of this
Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 5. This Code of Ordinances shall be in full force and effect as
provided in Section 6, and this Code of Ordinances shall be presumptive
evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all provisions,
sections, penalties and regulations therein contained and of the date of
passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded, and approved
and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law have been
given.
   Section 6. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Wake Village, Texas,
on this 13th day of July, 2009.
                          /s/  Mike Huddleston           
                        Mike Huddleston, Mayor
ATTEST:                     APPROVED AS TO FORM:
  /s/  Denise Miot                                 /s/ J. Michael Brock       
     
Denise Miot, City Secretary               J. Michael Brock, City Attorney
   TEXAS CERTIFICATION OF CODIFIED ORDINANCES
   We, Mike Huddleston, Mayor, and Denise Miot, Secretary, of the Municipality
of the City of Wake Village, Texas, pursuant to Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code § 53.006,
hereby certify, authenticate and approve that the general and permanent
ordinances of the Municipality of the City of Wake Village, Texas, as revised,
rearranged, compiled, renumbered as to sections, codified and printed herewith
in component codes and titles are correct as and constitute the Code of
Ordinances for the Municipality of the City of Wake Village, Texas, as amended
to the 13th day of July, 2009.
                          /s/  Mike Huddleston       
                        Mike Huddleston, Mayor
                          /s/  Denise Miot               
                        Denise Miot, City Secretary
CHARTER
Section
Article I.  Incorporation, Powers and Territory
   
Sec. 1.   Corporate name and status
   
Sec. 2.   Enumerated powers not exclusive
   
Sec. 3.   Boundaries of city
Article II.  Governing Body
   
Sec. 1.   The City Council; term of office
   
Sec. 2.   Qualifications for City Council
   
Sec. 3.   Election of Mayor
   
Sec. 4.   Vacancies
   
Sec. 5.   Salaries of Mayor and Council members
   
Sec. 6.   Failure to attend meetings
Article III.  Procedures of the Council; Legislation
   
Sec. 1.   Meetings of the City Council
   
Sec. 2.   Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem
   
Sec. 3.   City Secretary
   
Sec. 4.   Quorum
   
Sec. 5.   Introduction and passage of ordinances and resolutions
   
Sec. 6.   When ordinances and resolutions shall take effect
   
Sec. 7.   Resolutions
Article IV.  Nominations and Elections
   
Sec. 1.   Municipal elections
   
Sec. 2.   Council rules
   
Sec. 3.   Nominations
   
Sec. 4.   Ballots
   
Sec. 5.   Election of Council
   
Sec. 6.   Laws governing city elections
Article V.  Legal Department
   
Sec. 1.   City attorney; qualifications
   
Sec. 2.   Duties of City Attorney
Article VI.  Municipal Court
   
Sec. 1.   Creation and jurisdiction
   
Sec. 2.   Appointment of Municipal Judge
   
Sec. 3.   Duties of Municipal Judge
   
Sec. 4.   Absence of Municipal Judge
   
Sec. 5.   Clerk of Court
   
Sec. 6.   Divisions of court
   
Sec. 7.   Administration
Article VII.  Finance and Administration
   
Sec. 1.   Director of Finance and Administration
   
Sec. 2.   Fiscal year
   
Sec. 3.   City budget
   
Sec. 4.   Filing of budget
   
Sec. 5.   Budget hearing
   
Sec. 6.   Transfer of appropriations
   
Sec. 7.   Money to be withdrawn from treasury in accordance with appropriations
   
Sec. 8.   Contracts and purchases
   
Sec. 9.   Custody of city monies
   
Sec. 10.   Issuance of bonds
   
Sec. 11.   Loans in anticipation of bond sales
   
Sec. 12.   Temporary borrowing
   
Sec. 13.   Annual audit
Article VIII.  Fire Department
   
Sec. 1.   The Fire Chief
Article IX.  Police Department
   
Sec. 1.   The Police Chief
Article X.  City Planning Board
   
Sec. 1.   Establishment, membership, duties, terms
Article XI.  Taxation
   
Sec. 1.   Power to tax
Article XII.  Public Utilities and Franchises
   
Sec. 1.   Powers of the city
   
Sec. 2.   Franchises; powers of City Council
   
Sec. 3.   Term of franchise
   
Sec. 4.   Right of regulation
   
Sec. 5.   Consent of property owners
   
Sec. 6.   Revocable permits
   
Sec. 7.   Extensions
   
Sec. 8.   Other conditions
   
Sec. 9.   Franchise records
   
Sec. 10.   Accounts of municipally owned utilities
   
Sec. 11.   Public utilities
   
Sec. 12.   Street rental
Article XIII.  Miscellaneous Provisions
   
Sec. 1.   Public records
   
Sec. 2.   Personal interest
   
Sec. 3.   Compensation and benefits for officers and employees
   
Sec. 4.   Official bonds
   
Sec. 5.   Oath of office
   
Sec. 6.   Nepotism
   
Sec. 7.   Damage suits
   
Sec. 8.   Right of eminent domain
   
Sec. 9.   Execution, garnishment, and assignments
   
Sec. 10.   Words, meaning of
   
Sec. 11.   Saving clause, etc.
   
Sec. 12.   Ordinances continued in force
   
Sec. 13.   Power to construct and own
   
Sec. 14.   Amending the Charter
   
Sec. 15.   Meetings of boards, committees and commissions
   
Sec. 16.   Enumerated powers not exclusive
   
Sec. 17.   Submission of Original Charter to electors
ARTICLE I.  INCORPORATION, POWERS AND TERRITORY
SEC. 1.  CORPORATE NAME AND STATUS.
   The inhabitants of the City of Wake Village, in Bowie County, Texas,
residing within its territorial limits, as these limits are now established or
are hereafter established in the manner provided by law, shall continue to be
and are hereby constituted a body politic and corporate by the name of the City
of Wake Village, and under that name shall have perpetual succession; may use a
corporate seal; may sue and be sued; may acquire property within or without its
boundaries for any municipal purpose, in fee simple or lesser interest or
estate, by purchase, gift, devise, lease, or condemnation and may sell, lease,
hold, manage, and control such property as its interest may require; may
cooperate with the government of the United States or any agency of the
government of the United States or the government of the State of Texas, or any
political subdivision or agency of the State of Texas, to accomplish any lawful
purpose for the advancement of the interest, welfare, health, morals, comfort,
safety, and convenience of the city and its inhabitants; and may pass such
ordinances as may be expedient for maintaining and promoting the peace and
government and welfare of the city and for the performance of the functions
thereof; and, except as prohibited by the Constitution and laws of the State of
Texas or restricted by the Charter, the city shall have and may exercise all
municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of every nature
whatsoever.
SEC. 2.  ENUMERATED POWERS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The enumeration of particular powers by this Charter shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive, but, in addition to the powers enumerated herein or
implied hereby, or appropriate to the exercise of such powers, it is intended
that the City of Wake Village shall have, and may exercise, all powers of local
self-government, and all powers under the Constitution and laws of the State of
Texas which would be competent for this Charter specifically to enumerate. All
powers of the city, whether expressed or implied, shall be exercised in the
manner prescribed by this Charter, or if not prescribed therein, then in the
manner provided by ordinance or resolution of the city council.
SEC. 3.  BOUNDARIES OF CITY.
   The boundaries of the city shall be the same as have been heretofore
established and now exist and those boundaries established and changed
hereafter in all annexation and disannexation proceedings of the city, filed in
the office of the city secretary.
   The city council may by ordinance annex territory adjacent to the city with
or without the consent of the owners or inhabitants of the annexed territory
and subject to the procedural rules subscribed by the laws of the State of
Texas. The City Council, after a public hearing and a majority vote of the
council, may, by ordinance pursuant to State law and this charter, disannex any
property lying within and adjacent to the boundary limits of the city and lying
adjacent to the city limits.
ARTICLE II.  THE GOVERNING BODY
SEC. I.  THE CITY COUNCIL; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The governing body of the City of Wake Village, Texas shall be a council
composed of a Mayor and five council members to be known as the City Council of
the City of Wake Village. The members of the City Council shall be elected from
the City of Wake Village for two-year staggered terms with the Mayor, Place 1
and Place 2 running in odd number years and Place 3, Place 4, and Place 5
running in even number years.
SEC. 2.  QUALIFICATIONS FOR CITY COUNCIL.
   The Mayor and each council member shall in addition to the other
qualifications prescribed by law:
   (1)   Be at least 21 years of age and a qualified resident voter in the
city.
   (2)   Be a resident of the city for at least twelve (12) months prior to the
date of the election and continue to reside in said city during the term of
office.
SEC. 3.  ELECTION OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be elected at large by a vote from the qualified voters from
the entire city. The City Council shall be elected at large by Place by a vote
from the qualified voters from the entire city. Any candidate desiring to run
for one of these offices shall so indicate by filing the proper form in the
office of the City secretary in accordance with state and federal law. In the
event the election of a Council member or Mayor cannot be determined because of
a tied vote, the Mayor shall call a second election to be held not less than
twenty (20) days nor more than thirty (30) days after such order of election to
determine the winner between the candidates receiving tie votes. At the second
election, the candidate receiving the highest number of qualified votes shall
be declared elected.
SEC. 4.  VACANCIES.
   If a single vacancy exists on the City Council, a majority of the remaining
members excluding the Mayor may fill the vacancy by appointment. However, in
case of a tie, the mayor will cast the decisive vote. In lieu of filling the
vacancy by appointment the City Council may order a special election to fill
the vacancy or leave the seat vacant for the remainder of the unexpired term.
If two or more vacancies exist on the council at the same time, a special
election must be ordered to fill the vacancy. If a vacancy exists in any other
municipal office of the city, the Mayor shall appoint someone to fill the
vacancy subject to confirmation by the City Council.
SEC. 5.  SALARIES OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The salary of the mayor and council members shall be fixed by the city
council not to exceed fifty (50) dollars per month. A mayor or council member
may choose not to be paid a salary for their term. If a council votes to
increase the pay to council members and/or mayor, the increase cannot take
effect until after the next election of each respective seat of the council and
the mayor. Therefore, elected officials will receive increases at different
times.
SEC. 6.  FAILURE TO ATTEND MEETINGS.
   Any member of the City Council remaining absent for three consecutive
regularly scheduled meetings of the City Council, unless absence is excused by
the City Council for a reason found to be justifiable by the City Council,
shall be determined to have vacated his/her office, which vacancy shall be
filled in accordance with the Charter.
ARTICLE III.  PROCEDURES OF THE COUNCIL; LEGISLATION
SEC. I.  MEETINGS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   By ordinance, the City of Wake Village will set up two regularly scheduled
Council meetings per month. The mayor or a majority of the council members may
call special meetings of the Council. All meetings shall be held at Wake
Village City Hall, Wake Village, Texas, or any such other place as may be
designated by the City Council. All meetings of the Council shall be opened to
the public except as allowed by State law. Unless otherwise established by the
council, all meetings shall be conducted pursuant to Robert's Rules of Order.
SEC. 2.  MAYOR AND MAYOR PRO TEM.
   At the first regular meeting after every election held for the purpose of
electing new city council members, the members of the City Council shall elect
one of their members to serve as mayor pro tem, and he/she shall perform the
duties of the mayor in his/her absence or disability.
SEC. 3.  CITY SECRETARY.
   The mayor shall appoint the City secretary subject to confirmation by the
City Council. City secretary shall hold his or her office at the pleasure of
the council. The council shall prescribe the duties and compensation for said
office and provide him/her with such assistance as may be deemed necessary.
SEC. 4.  QUORUM.
   A quorum for regularly scheduled meetings is three council members and the
mayor. A quorum for special scheduled meetings is four council members and the
mayor.
SEC. 5.  INTRODUCTION AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Ordinances and resolutions shall be introduced to the council only in
written or printed form. All ordinances, except ordinances making
appropriations and ordinances codifying or rearranging existing ordinances or
enacting a code of ordinances, shall be clearly expressed in the title. A full
written or printed copy of each ordinance or resolution shall have been
furnished to each member of the council prior to its introduction, and a vote
shall be taken for the passage of resolution and entered into the minutes of
the council meeting. The enacting clause of all ordinances and resolutions
shall be “Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Wake Village.”
SEC. 6.  WHEN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS SHALL TAKE EFFECT.
   All ordinances and resolutions unless otherwise provided by the terms of
such ordinance or resolution shall take effect immediately upon final passage
thereof.
SEC. 7.  RESOLUTIONS.
   Upon final passage the City secretary shall give notice of the enactment of
every ordinance imposing a penalty, fine, or forfeiture for any violation of
any of its provisions of every other ordinance as required by law by causing
the ordinance or its descriptive caption and penalty to be published at least
one time in the official newspaper of the city. An affidavit of such
publication shall be received from the newspaper by the City secretary and
shall be conclusive proof of the legal publication and promulgation of such
ordinance in all courts of the state.
ARTICLE IV.  NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
SEC. I.  MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   Municipal elections. The regular election for the choice of members of the
city council shall be held every year on the first Saturday in May; each odd
number year the mayor and council member places one and two will be up for
election. On even number year's council member places three, four and five are
up for election. The city council may by resolution order a special election,
fix the time for holding the election, and provide all means for holding the
special election in accordance with state law.
SEC. 2.  COUNCIL RULES.
   The city council shall make all necessary rules and regulations in
compliance with state and federal election law, for the conduct of elections,
for the prevention of fraud in elections, and for the recount of the ballots in
case of doubt or fraud.
SEC. 3.  NOMINATIONS.
   Any citizen under
Article II, Section 2 of this charter, desiring to have his/her name placed
upon the official ballot for any election, may do so by filing the proper form
in the office of the City secretary in compliance with state and federal law,
signed by him/her self. In the city's general election, the filing period will
be set by ordinance in accordance to state and federal election laws.
SEC. 4.  BALLOTS.
   The ballots shall contain the names of candidates as reflected on their form
filing for office, in the office of the City secretary, running for city
council and mayor according to provisions of state law except such as may have
withdrawn, died, or become ineligible, and shall be printed on the official
ballot in order determined by the drawing of lots by the candidates or their
appointed representatives.
SEC. 5.  ELECTION OF COUNCIL.
   Selection of council members is based on a place system. City council
members are elected at large by place. The mayor is elected at large.
SEC. 6.  LAWS GOVERNING CITY ELECTIONS.
   The election judges and other necessary election officials for conducting
all such elections shall be appointed by resolution by the city council. The
election judges shall conduct the elections, open the ballot boxes, take
therefrom and count the ballots whether for candidates or questions, and enter
the result on the tally sheet as provided by the general election law of Texas,
or as may be provided by ordinance. They shall certify to the count so made,
seal the tally sheet up with their certificate, and return it at once to the
city secretary. The canvass is held as designated by state law.
ARTICLE V.  LEGAL DEPARTMENT
SEC. 1.  CITY ATTORNEY; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The City of Wake Village has a contract city attorney per ordinance. That
contract city attorney is paid an hourly rate, and currently there are no
resident restrictions. Administratively, the city attorney shall report to the
chief executive officer, the mayor.
SEC. 2.  DUTIES OF CITY ATTORNEY.
   It shall be the city attorney's duty to:
   (1)   Perform all services incident to the department of law;
   (2)   Attend meetings of the council whenever requested by the mayor and/or
city council to do so;
   (3)   Give advice in writing when so requested by the mayor or city council;
   (4)   Prosecute or defend as the case may be all suits or cases to which the
city may be a party;
   (5)   Prosecute all offenses against the ordinances of the city and such
offences against the laws of the state as may be required by law;
   (6)   Prepare all contracts and other instruments in writing in which the
city is concerned, or endorse approval of the form and correctness thereof; and
   (7)   Perform such other duties of a legal nature as the council may by
ordinance require.
   In addition to the duties imposed upon the city attorney by this charter as
required by ordinance or resolution of the city council, the city attorney
shall perform any duties imposed by law upon the chief legal office of
municipalities.
   The city council shall be authorized to employ special council in important
legal matters or to represent the city in any legal matter in which the city
attorney is disqualified. Any special council appointed by the city attorney
shall be subject to the confirmation of the city council in advance of any such
appointment.
   Administratively, the city attorney shall report to the mayor.
ARTICLE VI.  MUNICIPAL COURT
SEC. 1.  CREATION AND JURISDICTION.
   There is hereby created and established a court to be held in the City of
Wake Village which shall be known as the municipal court of the City of Wake
Village, which court shall have jurisdiction within the territorial limits of
said city of all criminal cases arising under the ordinances of such city, and
shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the justices of the peace of the
precincts in which the city is or may be situated of all criminal cases arising
under the criminal laws of the state, where the offense is committed within the
territorial limits of said city and the punishment is by fine only and the
maximum of said fine shall not exceed that set by state law. Said court shall
have no civil jurisdiction except for the forfeiture and collection of bonds
given in proceedings pending therein. Said court shall have jurisdiction in
cases where the person is required by the provisions of this Charter, or by
ordinance passed in pursuant thereof, to obtain a permit or license for any
calling, occupation, business, or vocation, upon complaint to said court to
adjudge said person guilty of violating any rule, regulation, or ordinance of
the city in relation thereto, and in addition to the punishment to be imposed
therefore may suspend or revoke the license or permit so granted.
SEC. 2.  APPOINTMENT OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   The court shall be presided over by a judge who shall be known as the
municipal judge. The municipal judge shall be appointed every two (2) years by
the mayor subject to confirmation by the council. The municipal judge shall
hold office at the pleasure of the city council. The municipal judge shall
receive such compensation as shall be prescribed by the city council.
SEC. 3.  DUTIES OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   The municipal judge shall have full power and authority to enforce all
process of said court, to punish witnesses for failing to obey subpoenas and to
compel their attendance by process of attachment, and to punish all contempt of
the municipal judge's court by fine or imprisonment or both. The municipal
judge may require of all persons arrested for offenses committed in the city a
bond or bonds for his/her appearance before said court, and no such bonds shall
be taken except it be executed by the person in whose behalf it is made with
two or more good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the municipal judge,
and all bonds taken in proceedings in said court shall be payable to the City
of Wake Village. The municipal judge shall have the power and authority to
administer official oaths and affirmations and to give certificates thereof,
and either the municipal judge or clerk of said court shall have full power and
authority to issue subpoenas, writs of capias, search warrants, executions and
all other processes known to the law which justice courts are by law authorized
to issue in similar cases.
SEC. 4.  ABSENCE OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   If the municipal judge shall be temporarily incapacitated or on vacation,
the city council is authorized to appoint some qualified person who shall act
in the place and stead of the municipal judge, and who shall receive the
compensation therefore as fixed by the city council at the time of the
temporary municipal judge's appointment, but not for longer than 60 days.
SEC. 5.  CLERK OF COURT.
   There shall be a clerk or clerks of said court and such deputies as may be
created or provided for by ordinance, which clerks and deputies shall be
appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the council, and shall be
subject to removal at any time by the council, and shall receive such salaries
as may be fixed by the council. Said clerks shall have the power to do and
perform all things and acts usual or necessary to be performed by clerks of
courts in issuing process of said court and conducting the business thereof;
and the city council may require such clerks or deputies to perform such other
duties, in addition to the duties of clerk or deputy clerks, as may be
prescribed or may provide that some other employee or employees of said city,
in addition to their duties, may perform the duties of such clerk or deputy
clerk without extra compensation.
SEC. 6.  DIVISIONS OF COURT.
   The council may create additional divisions of the municipal court whenever
the future needs of the city may require it and may pass all ordinances
necessary to organize and administer same; and any additional municipal judge
shall be appointed as prescribed in this Charter for the municipal judge and
shall be subject to the rules and regulations prescribed for such officers.
SEC. 7.  ADMINISTRATION.
   Administration, budget oversight, and internal audit control shall be under
the supervision of the mayor or his/her designated representative.
ARTICLE VII.  FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 1.  DIRECTOR OF FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION.
   There shall be a City Administrator who shall be appointed or terminated by
the Mayor and confirmed by an absolute majority of the council. The
Administrator, who works directly under the Mayor, is accountable for the city
streets, signs and parks; the operation and maintenance of water of water
treatment, storage and distribution system; the operation and maintenance of
the sewer distribution system; the monthly water meter readings; and the
administration of the animal and insect control programs of the city. He/She is
responsible for the inspection and construction in the city. He/She is
responsible for department personnel and for department budget administration.
   As head of the Department of Administration, the City Administrator is
accountable for the preparation, maintenance and proper disposal of all city
documents for the supervision of department personnel and for the
administration of the department.
   The Administrator shall assist the Mayor and the City Council in the
preparation of the annual budget for the city. He/She shall also be accountable
to the Mayor and City Council for the proper disbursements of city funds
through an established voucher system of the city.
SEC. 2.  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of
January each year and shall end on the last day of December. Such years shall
constitute the budget year of the city government.
SEC. 3.  CITY BUDGET.
   The city budget shall be preceded by a budget message which shall explain
the budget both in fiscal terms and in work programs. It shall outline the
proposed financial policies of the city for the ensuing fiscal year; describe
the important features of the budget; indicate any major changes from the
current year in financial policies, expenditures and revenues together with the
reasons for such changes; and include such other material deemed relevant to
council for consideration of the document. The budget shall provide a complete
financial plan for all city funds and activities of the ensuing fiscal year
and, except as required by law or this charter, shall be such form as the mayor
deems desirable. In organizing the budget, the most feasible combination of
expenditure classifications by fund, organization unit, program, purpose,
activity or object shall be used. It shall begin with a clear general summary
of its contents. It shall show in detail all estimated income, indicating the
proposed property tax levy, and all proposed expenditures, including debt
service for the ensuing fiscal year. It shall be so arranged as to show
comparative figures for actual and estimated income and expenditures for three
fiscal years: the last completed fiscal year, the year of preparation of the
budget and the, projections for the ensuing fiscal year. It shall indicate in
separate sections:
   (1)   Proposed expenditures for operations during the ensuing fiscal year
detailed by departments in terms of their respective work programs and the
method of financing such expenditures.
   (2)   Proposed capital improvement expenditures during the ensuing fiscal
year detailed by purpose and the proposed method of financing each capital
expenditure.
   (3)   Anticipated net surplus or deficit for the ensuing fiscal year of each
utility owned or enterprise fund operated by the city and the proposed method
of its disposition.
   Budgets for each utility or enterprise fund giving detailed income and
expenditure information shall be included, as well as detailed schedules
indicating the city's debt position and debt service requirements. The total of
proposed expenditures shall not exceed the total of estimated income.
SEC. 4.  FILING OF BUDGET.
   The budget prepared by the City Administrator and Mayor shall be filed with
the City Secretary prior to the current fiscal year and such budget shall be
available for inspection by any taxpayer.
SEC. 5.  BUDGET HEARING.
   The City Council shall provide for a public hearing each year on such budget
on some date to be fixed by the Mayor at the beginning of the budget process.
Public notice of the hour, date and place of the hearing shall be published in
the official newspaper at least 72 hours prior to the date set for the public
hearing, and any taxpayer of the city shall have the right to be present and
participate in the public hearing. The City Council shall have the authority to
make such changes in the budget as in its judgment the law warrants in the best
interest of the taxpayers. When the budget has been finally approved by the
City Council, the budget as so approved shall be filed with the City Secretary.
The Mayor with the assistance of the City Administrator will oversee the
expenditures of the budget. In case of grave public necessity, the Mayor shall
request the City Council to amend the budget allowing emergency expenditures to
meet unusual and unforeseen conditions which could not by reasonably diligent
thought and attention have been included in the original budget. In all cases
where such an amendment to the original budget is made, a copy of the order or
resolution of the City Council amendment of the budget shall be filed with the
City Secretary and attached to the budget originally adopted. Immediately after
the adoption of the said budget and all amendments thereto, the Mayor shall
file or cause to be filed a true copy of said approved budget and all
amendments thereto in the office of the County Clerk of Bowie County, Texas. In
the preparation of the budget the City Administrator shall have the authority
to require heads of all city departments to furnish such information as may be
necessary for the Mayor to have in order that the budget covering the
expenditures of the city may be properly prepared.
SEC. 6.  TRANSFER OF APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Mayor may upon the recommendation of the City Administrator transfer any
unencumbered appropriation balance or any portion thereof within any department
of the city government. The transfer of funds from one department to another
will require a budget amendment by the City Council.
SEC. 7.  MONEY TO BE WITHDRAWN FROM TREASURY IN ACCORDANCE WITH APPROPRIATIONS.
   No money shall be withdrawn from the treasury of the city nor shall any
obligation for the expenditure of money be incurred except in pursuant of the
annual budget or if such budget when changed is authorized by sections
5 and
6 of this article. At the close of each fiscal year any unencumbered balance of
appropriations shall revert to the fund from which appropriated and shall be
subject to re-appropriation. The appropriations may be made by the City Council
to be paid out of income of the current year in furtherance of improvements or
other objects or works which will not be completed within such year, and any
such appropriations shall continue in force until the purpose for which it was
made shall have been accomplished or abandoned.
SEC. 8.  CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES.
   The City Council may by ordinance establish the maximum amounts of funds
which the City Administrator shall be authorized to expend for budgeted items
and establish the minimum amount of funds which the City Administrator shall be
authorized to expend for budgeted items which must be let on the basis of
competitive bids, provided that all expenditures or purchases in excess of the
amount established by state law must be let on the basis of competitive bids.
The City Council may by ordinance establish a figure above which all contracts
or purchases must be approved in advance by the City Council. All contracts and
purchases shall be handled in a manner to obtain the best value for the city.
SEC. 9.  CUSTODY OF CITY MONIES.
   All money received by any department or agency of the city for or in
connection with the business of the city shall be paid promptly into the
treasury and shall be deposited with responsible banking institutions. These
institutions shall be designated by the Mayor in accordance with such
regulations and subject to such requirements as to security for deposits and
interest thereon as may be established by ordinance or by state law. All
interest or money belonging to the city shall accrue to the benefit of the city
government.
SEC. 10.  ISSUANCE OF BONDS.
   The city may issue bonds to pay for any property or public improvement, but
no bonds shall be issued to pay current expenses. The enumeration, in the
preceding sentence, of particular powers of the city in connection with the
issuance of bonds shall not be held or deemed to be exclusive; and, in addition
to the powers enumerated or implied in the preceding sentence, or appropriate
to the exercise of such powers, it is intended that the City of Wake Village
shall have and may exercise the authority to issue revenue bonds for the
purchase of utilities or any other self-liquidating asset for which revenue
bonds may lawfully be issued. It is intended that the City of Wake Village
shall have and may exercise the authority to issue bonds for the construction
and extra-ordinary maintenance of necessary civic improvements or facilities
within or without the city limits. No tax bonds of the city, excepting
refunding bonds, shall be issued until first approved by a majority of the duly
qualified voters of the City of Wake Village voting at an election on such
issue, and all bonds shall be authorized by ordinance passed by an affirmative
vote of a majority of the members of the city council. The city shall have full
authority to issue bonds, warrants and other obligations under the provisions
of the general laws relating to the issuance of bonds, warrants and obligations
by a municipal corporation as each of said laws has heretofore been amended or
hereafter may be amended.
SEC. 11.  LOANS IN ANTICIPATION OF BOND SALES.
   At any time after a bond ordinance has taken effect as provided herein, the
city may borrow money for the purpose for which bonds are to be issued, in
anticipation of the receipt of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds and within
the maximum authorized amount of the bond issue. Such loans shall be due and
payable not later than three years after the time of taking effect of the
ordinance authorizing the bonds upon which they are predicated. But the limits
of the life of the bonds, as herein prescribed, shall be construed to include
the term of such temporary loan.
SEC. 12.  TEMPORARY BORROWING.
   For the purpose of temporary borrowing the City Council shall have the power
by ordinance to raise money on the credit of the city by the issuance of
warrants or notes in anticipation with the collection of taxes or of special
assessments.
SEC. 13.  ANNUAL AUDIT.
   As soon as practical, after the close of each fiscal year, an independent
audit shall be made of all accounts of the city governments and incorporations
established by the city. The certified public accountants, appointed by the
council, shall have no personal interest directly or indirectly in the
financial affairs of the city or of any of its officers. The scope of the audit
shall require a limited review of city-owned property, and the results shall be
reported with each annual audited financial report. Copies of all audits shall
be placed on file with the County Clerks office and the office of the City
Secretary.
ARTICLE VIII. FIRE DEPARTMENT
SEC. 1.  THE FIRE CHIEF.
   The fire chief is appointed or terminated by the Mayor and confirmed by
absolute majority of the City Council. The fire personnel are hired and
terminated at the will of the Fire Chief with confirmation by the Mayor. The
Fire Chief will appoint all necessary officers within the department subject to
approval by the Mayor. The Fire Chief will uphold and enforce all ordinances
established by the City Council. As such time as the City Council deems it
advisable to do so, the City Council may by ordinance create a regular Fire
Department for the city in which event it may provide regulations, make
provisions for the employment of firemen and make all such provisions as may be
found necessary for the maintenance and government for such department,
including provisions for compensating personnel of such department.
ARTICLE IX.  POLICE DEPARTMENT
SEC. 1.  THE POLICE CHIEF.
   The police chief shall be appointed or terminated by the Mayor and confirmed
by an absolute majority of the City Council. The Police Officers are hired and
terminated at the will of the Police Chief with confirmation by the Mayor. The
city may continue to maintain and support a competent and adequate police
department and may provide by ordinance for regulations as may be found
necessary for the maintenance and government of such department, including
provisions for compensating personnel of such department.
   The Police Chief shall be accountable for all law enforcement functions
contributing to the protection of lives and property in the city and
responsible for the supervision of department personnel.
ARTICLE X.  CITY PLANNING BOARD
SEC. 1.  ESTABLISHMENT, MEMBERSHIP, DUTIES, TERMS.
   The City Council may at any time after the adoption of this Charter
establish and maintain a City Planning Board, or act as the planning board, and
have such powers and duties as the Council may prescribe relative to city
planning and accordance with state law. The Council by duly enacted ordinance
may determine the number of board members. If a board is appointed, one of the
planning board members shall be the Mayor and another member shall be a member
of the council designated by the Council upon recommendation by the Mayor. Each
member appointed shall be appointed for a four year term. Any vacancy in and
during the unexpired term of an appointed member shall be filled by the council
upon recommendation by the mayor. The City Administrator shall provide the
Planning Board with the necessary clerical help, office equipment, and
supplies.
ARTICLE XI.  TAXATION
SEC. 1.  POWER TO TAX.
   The city council shall have the power under provisions of state law to levy,
assess, and collect an annual tax upon all taxable properties within the city
for all municipal purposes.
ARTICLE XII.  PUBLIC UTILITIES AND FRANCHISES
SEC. 1.  POWERS OF THE CITY.
   In addition to the city's power to buy, own, construct, maintain, and
operate utilities and to manufacture and distribute electricity, gas, or
anything else that may be needed or used by the public (see powers made part of
this Charter in
Article I, Section 2), the city shall have such further powers as may now or
hereafter be granted under the constitution and laws of the State of Texas.
SEC. 2.  FRANCHISES; POWERS OF CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have power by ordinance to grant, amend, renew and
extend all franchises, and to regulate all public utilities of every character
within the City of Wake Village, and for such purposes is granted full power.
All ordinances granting, amending, renewing, or extending franchises for public
utilities shall be read at three separate regular meetings of the City Council
and shall not be finally passed until thirty days after the first reading; no
such ordinance shall take effect until sixty days after its final passage; and
pending such time, the full text of such ordinance shall be published once each
week for four consecutive weeks in the official newspaper of the City of Wake
Village, with the expenses of such publication borne by the proponent of the
franchise. No public utility franchise shall be transferable except with the
approval of the City Council expressed by ordinance, and copies of all
transfers and mortgages or other documents affecting the title or use of public
utilities shall be filed with the Mayor or the City Secretary within ten days
after the execution thereof. Such franchise shall not be transferred indirectly
through the acquisition of the capital stock of the grantee company by another
corporation, except through such approval by the city council and the filing of
all documents relating to the purchase of such stock, including the corporate
affiliations of the purchasing company.
SEC. 3.  TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   No public franchise hereafter granted shall exceed a term of thirty years.
SEC. 4.  RIGHT OF REGULATION.
   All grants, renewals, extensions, or amendments of public utility
franchises, whether so provided in the ordinance or not, shall be subject to
the right of the city:
   (1)   To repeal the same by ordinance at any time for misuse or nonuse, or
for failure to begin construction within the time prescribed or otherwise to
comply with the terms prescribed.
   (2)   To require proper and adequate extension of plant and service, and the
maintenance of the plant and fixtures at the highest practical standard of
efficiency.
   (3)   To establish reasonable standards of service and quality of service
and quality of products and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates.
   (4)   To prescribe the form of accounts and at any time to examine and audit
the accounts and other records of any such utility and to require annual and
other reports by each such public utility; provided, that if a public service
commission or other authority shall be given the power by law to prescribe the
forms of accounts for public utilities throughout the state or throughout any
district of which the city is a part, the forms so prescribed shall be
controlling so far as they go, but the City Council may prescribe other and
more detailed forms for the utilities within its jurisdiction.
   (5)   To impose such other regulations as may be conducive to the safety,
welfare, and accommodation of the public.
SEC. 5.  CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   The consent of abutting and adjacent property owners shall not be required
for the construction, extension, maintenance or operation of any public
utility, but any property owner shall be entitled to recover from the owner of
such public utility the actual amount of damages to such property on account
thereof less any benefits received therefrom, provided suit is commenced within
two years after the damage is begun.
SEC. 6.  REVOCABLE PERMITS.
   Permits revocable at the will of the City Council for such minor or
temporary public utility privileges as may be specified by general ordinance
may be granted and revoked by the City Council from time to time in accordance
with the terms and conditions to be prescribed thereby; and such permits shall
not be deemed to be franchises as the term is used in this Charter. Such
general ordinance, however, shall be subject to the same procedure as an
ordinance granting a franchise and shall not be passed as an emergency measure.
SEC. 7.  EXTENSIONS.
   All extensions of public utilities within the city limits shall become a
part of the aggregate property of the public utility, shall be operated as
such, and shall be subject to all the obligations and reserved rights contained
in  this Charter and in any original grant hereafter made. The right to use and
maintain any extension shall terminate with the original grant and shall be
terminable as provided in section
4 of this article. In case of an extension of a public utility operated under a
franchise hereafter granted, such right shall be terminable at the same time
and under the same conditions as the original grant.
SEC. 8.  OTHER CONDITIONS.
   Every public utility franchise hereafter granted shall be held subject to
all the terms and conditions contained in the various sections of this article,
whether or not such terms are specifically mentioned in the franchise. Nothing
in this Charter shall operate to limit in any way, except as specifically
stated, the discretion of the City Council or the electors of the city in
imposing terms and conditions in connection with any franchise grant.
SEC. 9.  FRANCHISE RECORDS.
   Within six months after this Charter takes effect, every public utility and
every owner of a public utility franchise shall file with the city, as may be
prescribed by ordinance, certified copies of all the franchises owned or
claimed, or under which such utility is operated. The city shall compile and
maintain a public record of public utility franchises and of all public utility
fixtures in the streets of the city.
SEC. 10.  ACCOUNTS OF MUNICIPALLY OWNED UTILITIES.
   Accounts shall be kept for each public utility owned or operated by the
city, in such manner as to show the true and complete financial results of such
city ownership and operation, including all assets, appropriately subdivided
into different classes; all liabilities subdivided by classes; depreciation
reserve, other reserves and surplus; also all revenue, operating expenses
including depreciation, interest payments, rental, and other disposition of
annual income. The accounts shall show the actual capital cost to the city of
each public utility owned, also the cost of all extensions, additions, and
improvements, and the source of the funds expended for such capital purposes.
They shall show as nearly as possible the cost of any service furnished to or
rendered by any such utility to any other city or governmental department. The
commission shall annually cause to be made and published a report showing the
financial results of such city ownership and operation, giving the information
specified in this section or such data as the city council shall deem
expedient.
SEC. 11.  PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   The City Council shall have the power and shall be authorized to regulate,
by ordinance, the rates and compensation to be charged by all persons,
companies, or corporations using the streets, alleys or public grounds in the
City of Wake Village and engaged in furnishing water, gas, telephone, light,
power, electricity or sewerage service to the public, and also to prescribe
rules and regulations under which such commodities shall be furnished and
service rendered, and to fix penalties to enforce such charges, rules and
regulations. The governing body shall not prescribe any rate or compensation
which will yield more than a fair return upon the fair value of the property
used and useful in rendering such service to the public, but which return in no
event shall ever exceed 8% per annum.
SEC. 12.  STREET RENTAL.
   The City Council shall have the power and shall be authorized to charge and
collect from all persons, companies, corporations, utilities or franchise
holders using the streets, alleys or public grounds in the City of Wake Village
a rental for use of such streets, alleys or public grounds.
ARTICLE XIII.  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 1  PUBLIC RECORDS.
   All public records of the city shall be maintained and available for public
inspection as provided by applicable state and federal open records laws.
SEC. 2  PERSONAL INTEREST.
   Except as provided by state law, no member of the city council nor any
officer or employee of the city shall have a financial interest, direct or
indirect, in any contract with the city, or be financially interested directly
or indirectly in the sale to the city of any land, materials, supplies, or
services, except on behalf of the city as an officer or employee. Any violation
of this section shall constitute malfeasance in office and any officer or
employee of the city found guilty thereof shall thereby forfeit his/her office
or position. Any violation of this section with the knowledge expressed or
implied of the person or corporation contracting with the city shall render the
contract voidable by the city council.
SEC. 3  COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS FOR OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The City Council shall fix and determine the compensation of all appointive
officers and employees of the City and provide for the payment thereof. The
City Council shall have the power, exercisable in its discretion, and subject
to such limitations and regulations as it shall deem proper, to create,
operate, amend, and contract for an insurance plan covering health, life, and
accident insurance, or any of them, for any or all City Employees, active or
retired, and to pay the premiums therefore. Further, the City Council shall be
empowered to create, by ordinance, any plan providing for pensions for City
employees and/or their surviving spouses as it shall deem proper, and provide
for the payment thereof. The City Council shall also be empowered to provide,
by ordinance, for inclusion of the officers and employees of the city under the
provisions of the F.I.C.A. or State or Federal Unemployment systems.
SEC. 4  OFFICIAL BONDS.
   The Director of Finance and Administration, the City Secretary/Treasurer,
Deputy Treasurer, Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem and such officers or employees as the
City Council may by general ordinance require so to do, shall give a bond in
such amount and with such surety as may be approved by the city council. The
premiums on such bonds shall be paid by the city.
SEC. 5.  OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every officer of the city shall, before entering upon the duties of his/her
office, take and subscribe to the oath or affirmation prescribed by the state
constitution.
SEC. 6.  NEPOTISM.
   No appointment to the service of the city shall violate the prohibitions
against nepotism set forth in Vernon's Ann. Civ. St. art. 5596a, as amended.
SEC. 7.  DAMAGE SUITS.
   Before the City of Wake Village shall be liable for damages from any cause,
the claimant or someone on his behalf shall give the Mayor or the City
Secretary notice in writing within thirty (30) days after the occurrence of the
alleged injury, death, or damage, stating specifically in such notice when,
where, and how the injury, death, or damage was sustained, and setting forth
the extent of the injury, death, or damage as accurately as possible, and
giving the names and addresses of all witnesses upon whose testimony such
person is relying to establish the injury, death, or damage. No action at law
for damages shall be brought against the City for personal injury or death or
damage to property prior to the expiration of sixty (60) days after the notice
hereinabove described has been filed with the Mayor or City Secretary.
SEC. 8.  RIGHT OF EMINENT DOMAIN.
   The city shall have the right of eminent domain and the power to condemn and
appropriate private property for public purposes, whether such property be
within or without the city limits, in such cases as is now or may hereafter be
provided by the General Laws of Texas governing cities and towns, and the
procedure to be followed is that prescribed by the General Laws of Texas as is
now, or may hereafter become, applicable to municipal and political
subdivisions of the State of Texas. Provided further is that the Council shall
have the power to regulate, abate and/or control any abuses or nuisances for a
distance of five thousand (5,000) feet beyond the corporate limits of the City
of Wake Village.
SEC. 9.  EXECUTION, GARNISHMENT, AND ASSIGNMENTS.
   Any funds belonging to said city, in the hands of any person, shall not be
liable to garnishment on account of any debt it may owe or funds it may have on
hand due any person, nor shall the city or any of its officers or agents be
required to answer to any writ of garnishment on any account whatsoever, nor
shall the city be liable to the assignee of any wages of any officer, agent, or
employee of said city, whether earned or unearned, upon any claim or account
whatsoever, and as to the city any such assignment shall be absolutely void.
SEC. 10.  WORDS, MEANING OF.
   The provisions of this Charter shall be liberally construed for the purposes
of affecting the objects and ends thereof. Unless some other meaning is
manifest; the word “city” shall be construed to mean the “City of Wake Village,
Texas,” and the word “and” may be read “or” and the word “or” may be read
“and,” if the sense requires; the words in the present tense, except when a
more restricted meaning is manifest, may be read in the past tense, and
singular may mean plural. Throughout this Charter, words used in expressing
masculine gender shall be construed to include the feminine. The words “City
Secretary” refers to the persons performing the duties of City Secretary. The
word “Council” shall be construed to mean the “City Council” of the City of
Wake Village, Texas.
SEC. 11.  SAVING CLAUSE, ETC.
   All powers granted heretofore to cities are hereby preserved. In case of any
irreconcilable conflict between the provisions of this Charter and any superior
law, the powers of the City and its officers shall be as defined in such
superior laws. In case of any insufficiency or omission in this Charter, which
insufficiency or omission may be supplied by reference to the general laws,
such provisions of the general laws are hereby adopted, and the City shall have
and exercise all of the powers that it could have acquired by expressly
adopting and incorporating into this Charter all of the provisions of such
superior and general laws. It being the intent of this Charter that no lawful
power of the City shall fail because of any omission, insufficiency or
invalidity of any portion or portions of this Charter, this shall not in anyway
affect the remainder of the Charter. The same shall be construed as if adopted
without such portion so found invalid or impotent.
SEC. 12.  ORDINANCES CONTINUED IN FORCE.
   All ordinances and resolutions in force at the time of the taking effect of
this Charter not inconsistent with its provisions shall continue in full force
and effect until amended or repealed.
SEC. 13.  POWER TO CONSTRUCT AND OWN.
   The city shall have the right to construct, reconstruct, erect, improve,
enlarge, extend, own, maintain, operate, and regulate such waterworks plants
and systems, sanitary sewer plants and systems, and storm sewer plants and
systems for the use of the city and its inhabitants, but shall not have the
power or right to sell any such plants or systems unless such sale is first
authorized by a majority vote of the qualified voters of the city at an
election called by the city council for that purpose. The city council shall
have the power to prescribe rates for water furnished, prescribe rates for
connections to any such plants and systems, to prescribe rates for the use of
such sewers, prescribe penalties for refusal to connect with such sanitary
sewers, provide that the water of any consumer may be cut off for failure or
refusal to pay water or sewer charges, and to establish such rules and
regulations with reference thereto as the city council may deem expedient; to
acquire by purchase or donation suitable grounds on which to erect such works
and systems and necessary rights-of-way; and to do anything whatsoever
necessary to construct, operate and maintain same.
SEC. 14.  AMENDING THE CHARTER.
   Amendments to this Charter may be framed and submitted to the voters of the
city in the manner provided by state law.
SEC. 15.  MEETINGS OF BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS.
   All permanent boards, committees and commissions established in this Charter
or by the city council shall meet at least once quarterly and submit the
minutes of their meetings to the city council. All nonpermanent and/or external
boards, committees and commissions will be established by the Mayor and City
Council. All appointments to such boards, committees and commissions will be
appointed by the Mayor.
   The need for other boards, committees and commissions appointed by the city
council will be reviewed annually by the mayor, and appropriate recommendation
for their continuance made to the city council.
SEC. 16.  ENUMERATED POWERS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The enumeration of particular powers in the Charter shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive, but in addition to the powers enumerated herein,
implied thereby or appropriate to the exercise thereof, the City shall have and
may exercise all other powers which, under the Constitution and Laws of the
State of Texas, it would be competent for the Charter specifically to
enumerate. The City of Wake Village shall have and exercise all the powers
conferred upon cities by what is known as the Home Rule Amendment to the
Constitution of the State of Texas and the Enabling Act relative thereto,
passed by the Thirty-Third Legislature of the State of Texas, found in the
published laws of said Legislature, Regular Session, pages 307 to 317, and
effective July 7, 1913, and all other laws passed by the Legislature of the
State of Texas, relating thereto, or which may hereafter be passed by said
Legislature in relation to such matters.
SEC. 17.  SUBMISSION OF ORIGINAL CHARTER TO ELECTORS.
   This charter shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the City of Wake
Village at an election to be held for that purpose on the 6th day of November,
2001, not less than thirty days prior to such election the City Council shall
cause the City Secretary to mail a copy of this Charter to each qualified voter
of the City of Wake Village. If a majority of the qualified voters voting in
such election shall vote in favor of the adoption of this Charter, it shall
become the Charter of the City of Wake Village, and after the returns have been
canvassed, the same shall be declared adopted and the City Council shall file
an official copy of the Charter with the records of the city. The Commission
shall furnish the Mayor a copy of said Charter, which copy of the Charter as
adopted, authenticated, and certified by his signature and the seal of the
city, shall be forwarded by the mayor to the secretary of state of the State of
Texas and shall show the approval of such Charter by a majority vote of the
qualified voters voting at such election.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering or tampering with code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Wake Village, Texas,
shall be designated as the Code of Wake Village and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Loc. Gov't Code,
Ch. 53
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule.  Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY.  The City of Wake Village,
Texas.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY.  Bowie County, Texas.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT.  An officer,
office, employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the
context clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver.  Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of Texas.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading.  Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.  No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it is
a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the
end of the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including but not limited to the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the municipality
or any evidence of the municipality's indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for municipal officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to municipal
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit, or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing, or otherwise relating to
rates to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing, or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating, or otherwise
relating to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All such ordinances mentioned in division (A) are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.  Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect
from their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section.  In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example: 
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. 
Example: 
(Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, § 54.001)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.  Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, §§ 552.001 et
seq.
§ 10.19  ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor,
or whenever in the code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is
provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this code or
ordinance shall be punished by:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $2,000 for violations of all the rules,
ordinances and police regulations that govern fire safety, zoning or public
health and sanitation, including dumping of refuse;
      (2)   A fine not to exceed $500 in all other cases; provided, however,
that no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same
or a similar offense under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 4-05, passed 2-15-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal penalties, see Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, § 54.001
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City boundaries at incorporation
   
11.02   Extraterritorial jurisdiction boundaries; Nash, Texas
   
11.03   Extraterritorial jurisdiction boundaries; Texarkana, Texas
§ 11.01  CITY BOUNDARIES AT INCORPORATION.
   The corrected field notes are hereby approved, and the corrected field notes
are hereby authorized to be recorded and shall be known as the City of Wake
Village, Texas, and a copy of the corrected field notes is hereto attached and
ordered filed as a part of this section.
   Corrected Field Notes
   Wake Village, Inc.
BEGINNING at a stake, the southeast corner of Wake Village, Inc. property, said
corner being the southeast corner of what was formerly known as the
Breckenridge and Young Sub-Division and said corner being the northeast corner
of the Twitty Nursery 50-acre tract.
   Thence north 1755' along the east line of Wake Village, Inc., formerly known
as the east line of the Breckenridge and Young Subdivision, to a stake the
southeast corner of Block No. 112.
   Thence west 488.5' along the south line of said Block No. 112 to the
southwest corner of said Block No. 112.
   Thence north 518.7' along the west line of said Block No. 112 to its
intersection with the center line of an 80' road known as the Redwater Road.
   Thence south 61° 46' west 68.5' along the center line of Redwater Road to
the point of curve to a circular curve to the left having a radius of 11,459.2'
and a central angle of 2° 18'.
   Thence in a southwesterly direction 460' along said curve to a point where
the south line of Hawkins 52 acres intersects the center of said Redwater Road.
   Thence west 79.5' along the south line of said Hawkins 52-acre tract to the
north right-of-way line of the Redwater Road.
   Thence south 59° 28' west 205.3' along the north right-of-way line of said
Redwater Road to the point of curve to the left having a radius of 3477.87' and
a central angle of 6° 12'.
   Thence south 60° 30' west 463.7' along west line of right-of-way of Redwater
Road.
   Thence in a southwesterly direction along the north line of said Redwater
Road 376.5' to the east line of a traffic circle which has a radius of 125'.
   Thence following the arc of a circle 312.7' around the north line of said
traffic circle, with a radius of 125' having as its radius point the
intersection of the center line of Redwater Road and Burma Road west through a
central angle of 143° 45'.
   Thence south 59° 29' west 69.2' to the P.C.
   Thence 350.7' along the arc of said circular curve to the right having a
radius of 915.37' through a central angle of 21° 57'.
   Thence south 74° 26' west 420' to the P.C. of curve.
   Thence 424.3' along the arc of said circular curve to the left, having a
radius of 2904.93' through a central angle of 8° 22'.
   Thence south 23° 56' east 254' to the P.C. of a curve.
   Thence 386.8' along the arc of said circular curve to the left having a
radius of 361.51' through a central angle of 61° 18'.
   Thence south 0.04' west 125.25' to a stake, the southwest corner of Lot No.
28, Block No. 5.
   Thence south 89° 56' east 430', a stake set for the southeast corner of Lot
No. 34 Block No. 5 and the west line of the Ryan Place.
   Thence south 0° .04' west 295', a stake, the southeast corner of Block No. 2
and in the south boundary line of this subdivision, same being the north
boundary line of said Twitty 50-acre tract.
   Thence south 89° 56' east 2475' with the south boundary line of said sub-
division and the north boundary line of said Twitty 50-acre tract to the place
of beginning and containing 114.80 acres more or less.
(Ord. 2-46, passed 2-12-1946)
§ 11.02  EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION BOUNDARIES; NASH, TEXAS.
   An ordinance approving a description for a jurisdictional agreement between
the City of Wake Village, Texas and Nash, Texas that governs the boundary
controlling the extraterritorial jurisdiction in each respective city, giving
each city the right to annex and develop within the boundary of each city's
extraterritorial jurisdiction without consent of the other city.
   The Jurisdictional Agreement is more particularly described as follows:
Beginning in the east right-of-way line of Farm to Market Road No. 2148, at its
intersection with County Road No. 1221 (Brower Lane), said point being 150.00
feet left (east) of centerline station 367 + 80.
   THENCE:  Easterly, with the centerline of County Road No. 1221 (Brower Lane)
approximately 2,335.00 feet to a point at the northwest corner of an 8.833 acre
tract conveyed to Helen E. Brettel by Deed recorded in Volume 2071, Page 54,
D.R. Bowie County, Texas, and continuing in a easterly direction along a fence
line, 1,208.00 feet for a total distance of 3,543.00 feet to a point at the
southeast corner of the W.S. Brower 12 acre tract, Volume 294, Page 59, D.R.
Bowie County, Texas, and being in the west line of Double R Subdivision
recorded in Volume 766, Page 317, Plat Records of Bowie County, Texas;
   THENCE:  Southerly, with the west line of Double R Subdivision approximately
170.00 feet to the southwest corner of same;
   THENCE:  Easterly with south line of Double R Subdivision approximately
1,150.00 feet to a point in County Road No. 1376 and in the west line of Kelly
Acres Subdivision recorded in Volume 806, Page 705, Plat Records of Bowie
County, Texas;
   THENCE:  Northerly with County Road No. 1376, 125.00 feet to the northwest
corner of Kelly Acres Subdivision and being in the center of Kelly Road;
   THENCE:  Easterly with Kelly Road, same being the north line of Kelly Acres
Subdivision, 1320.93 feet to the northeast corner of same and being in the east
boundary line of Conway Drive;
   THENCE:  Southerly with the east boundary line of Conway Drive, same being
the east line of Kelly Acres Subdivision, 1,564.00 feet to the southeast corner
of same and being the northeast corner of the Jimmy D. Crowson 49.82 acre
tract, and continuing in a southerly direction with the east line of Crowson
tract, approximately 1,980.00 feet to a point at the northwest corner of the
Michael Hale ten-acre tract described in Volume 1556, Page 175, D.R. Bowie
County, Texas;
   THENCE:  Easterly along the north line of said Michael Hale tract and the
north line of the Jimmy D. Crowson ten-acre tract, approximately 1,190.00 feet
to the center of County Road No. 1301 (Proetz Lane);
   THENCE:  Northerly, with County Road No. 1301 (Proetz Lane), approximately
2,496.00 feet to a point;
   THENCE:  Easterly, with the south line of Frank L. King 40.177 acre tract
(Volume 2255, Page 69) and the north line of the Southwest Intrest 51.377 acre
tract (Volume 1477, Page 99), approximately 1,313.30 feet to the southeast
corner of the King 40.177 acre tract and the southwest corner of Chapelwood
Memorial Gardens and continuing in a easterly direction 741.90 feet for a total
distance of 2,055.20 feet to a point in the west line of Meadowbrook Heights
recorded in Volume 204, Page 276, Plat Records of Bowie County, Texas;
   THENCE:  Northerly with the west line of Meadowbrook Heights, 129.00 feet to
the northwest corner of same;
   THENCE:  Easterly with the north line of Meadowbrook Heights and the south
line of Chapelwood Memorial Gardens, approximately 1,275.00 feet to a point in
the west boundary of Farm to Market Road 989 (Kings Highway);
   THENCE:  Northwesterly with the west boundary line of FM 989, approximately
420.00 feet to a point;
   THENCE:  Easterly, crossing FM 989 and along the south line of the
Chapelwood Methodist Church tract and the south line of the Carl Brown tract,
and being approximately 225.00 feet north of and parallel to Brown Drive,
approximately 2,180.00 feet to a point in a fence line;
   THENCE:  Northerly along a fence line and the east line of the Brown tract,
approximately 1,123.61 feet to a point in the south line of the city limits of
Nash, Texas, and the most northerly northwest corner of the city limits of Wake
Village, Texas.  Boundaries plotted on map labeled EXHIBIT “A” attached to Ord.
8-97, are hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. 8-97, passed 5-12-1997)
§ 11.03  EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARIES; TEXARKANA, TEXAS.
   (A)   The hereinbelow described property currently located within the
corporate limits of the City of Texarkana, Bowie County, Texas, will from and
after this date be located within the City of Wake Village, Bowie County,
Texas:
      Lots Numbered 26, 27, 28 and 29, and the remaining portion of Lot
Numbered 30 as platted in the Belmont Subdivision to the City of Texarkana,
Texas.
   (B)   The hereinbelow described property currently located within the
corporate limits of the City of Wake Village, Bowie County, Texas, will from
and after this date be located within the City of Texarkana, Bowie County,
Texas:
   All that certain tract or parcel of land situated in the M.E.P.& P. Railway
Company Survey, Abstract No. 435, Bowie County, Texas, and being a part of Lots
Numbered Five (5) and Twenty-One (21) of said Survey, and the subject tract
being more particularly described by metes and bounds as follows:
      COMMENCING at the platted southwest corner of Lot Numbered 153 of the
Belmont Subdivision of the City of Texarkana, Texas;
      THENCE:  South 89° 58' east a distance of 1018.5 feet along the platted
southern boundary line of said Belmont Subdivision to a point for corner; said
point being on the platted southern boundary line of Lot Numbered 170 of said
Belmont Subdivision and the western right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 59 (Loop
151);
      THENCE:  South 01° 12' east a distance of 1653.95 feet along the western
right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 59 (Loop 151) to a point;
      THENCE:  South 05° 36' West a distance of 155.33 feet along the west
right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 59 (Loop 151) to a point for corner;
      THENCE:  South 88° 06' West a distance of 83.67 feet along the western
right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 59 (Loop 151) to a point for corner;
      THENCE:  South 01° 51' east a distance of 550.00 feet along the western
right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 59 (Loop 151) to a point for corner;
      THENCE:  North 88° 06' east a distance of 567.92 feet across U.S. Highway
59 (Loop 151) and along the common city limit boundary of the Cities of Wake
Village, Texas, and Texarkana, Texas, as established by Ordinance No. 41-59
adopted by the City Council of the City of Texarkana, Texas, on August 11,
1959, to a point for corner;
      THENCE:  North 02° 00' West a distance of 1337.66 feet along the city
limits of Texarkana, Texas, as established by said Ordinance No. 41-59, to a
point;
      THENCE:  North 03° 53' east a distance 377.56 feet along the city limits
of Texarkana, Texas, as established by said Ordinance No. 41-59, to a point;
      THENCE:  North 05° 26' west a distance of 646.56 feet along the city
limits of Texarkana, Texas, as established by said Ordinance No. 41-59, to a
point for corner; said point also being on the eastern right-of-way line of
U.S. Highway 59 (Loop 151);
      THENCE:  South 88° 00' west a distance of 439.35 feet across U.S. Highway
59 (Loop 151) and along the city limits of Texarkana, Texas, as established by
said Ordinance No. 41-59 to a point on the platted southern boundary line of
Lot Numbered 170 of said Belmont Subdivision, said point being the POINT OF
BEGINNING and containing 26.4 acres of land, more or less.
(Ord. 7-94, passed 6-13-1994)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BODY OF GOVERNMENT; ELECTED OFFICIALS
      
31.   APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   CITY FINANCES; FUNDS AND FEES
      
37.   CITY POLICIES
      
38.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: BODY OF GOVERNMENT; ELECTED OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions; Elections
   
30.01   Election of Council members by place system
   
30.02   Procedure to file for offices of Mayor and Council
   
30.03   Compensation
   
30.04   Accessible voting systems in polling places
City Council; Rules and Order of Business
   
30.15   Governing body
   
30.16   Terms of Council members
   
30.17   Regular meetings
   
30.18   Quorum
   
30.19   Special meetings
   
30.20   General requirements
   
30.21   Absence of Mayor
   
30.22   Order of business
   
30.23   Comments by member
   
30.24   Decorum; being called to order
   
30.25   Voting
   
30.26   Motions and resolutions, generally
   
30.27   Motions while question is under debate
   
30.28   Motion to adjourn
   
30.29   Motion for previous question
   
30.30   Priority of business
   
30.31   Paper documents
   
30.32   Procedure for consideration and final passage of ordinances
Municipal Court
   
30.45   Name of court
   
30.46   Rules and procedures to enforce collection of fines and costs imposed
by court
GENERAL PROVISIONS; ELECTIONS
§ 30.01  ELECTION OF COUNCIL MEMBERS BY PLACE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The City Council of the City of Wake Village, Texas, hereby adopts the
place system for the election of City Council members.
   (B)   Each Council member’s position shall be assigned a place number, such
that hereafter each such office shall bear its owned numbered designation, such
as:  City Council member, Place No. 1; City Council member, Place No. 2; City
Council member, Place No. 3; City Council member, Place No. 4; and City Council
member, Place No. 5.
   (C)   Place numbers shall be assigned by any method determined by the City
Council at the meeting accepting this section, and shall not thereafter be
changed.
   (D)   As the terms of incumbent City Council members expire, each candidate
for the office of City Council member shall file his or her application for a
specific numbered place on the City Council, corresponding to the expiring
Council member’s term.
   (E)   In each City Council member’s election hereafter, each ballot shall
show the office of City Council member as a separate office by place number,
with the name of each candidate printed thereon under the specific office for
which he or she has filed as a candidate.
   (F)   The candidate receiving a plurality, that being the greatest number of
votes for each place shall be declared elected, unless no candidate receives a
majority, in which case there shall be a runoff.
(Ord. 27-82, passed 11-22-1982; Ord. 29-82, passed 12-13-1982)
§ 30.02  PROCEDURE TO FILE FOR OFFICES OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   (A)   All elections pertaining to municipal affairs shall be governed by the
election laws of the State of Texas.  In all city elections, the Mayor, City
Secretary, or the governing body shall do and perform each act in other
elections required to be done and performed respectively by the County Judge,
the County Clerk, or the Commissioners’ Court.  In all city elections the
Mayor, or if he or she fails to do so, the governing body, shall order the
election, give notice and appoint election officers to hold the election.  In
general elections for officers the notice or proclamation shall be issued and
posted at the polling places not later than 30 days before the first Tuesday in
April of the year in which the election is to be held.
   (B)   Any eligible and qualified person may have his or her name printed
upon the official ballot as an independent candidate for the office of Mayor or
Commissioner or other city office by filing his or her sworn application with
the Mayor at least 30 days prior to the election day.  The application shall
state the specific office or place being sought by the applicant and that the
applicant is eligible and qualified under the laws of the State of Texas to
become a candidate for and hold the office being sought, if elected.
   (C)   (1)   The form of the sworn application shall be substantially as
follows:
      “To the Mayor of the City of Wake Village, Texas, Greetings:
         I,                               , hereby make application to have my
name printed on the official ballot as an independent candidate for the office
of                                     to be voted upon at the city election to
be held on the              day of          ,      ; and I hereby certify that
I am qualified to make this application and that I am legally qualified to hold
such office, if elected.
         THE STATE OF TEXAS
         COUNTY OF                    
                                      , being duly sworn, deposes and says that
the statements contained in the foregoing application are true.
                     (Signed)                                                  
   Subscribed and sworn to before me this the                  day of          
    , 20    .
(Seal)
                                                                               
     
                  Notary Public in and for Bowie County, Texas.”
      (2)   The sworn application may be accompanied with a petition signed by
qualified electors, although such petition is not required.
   (D)   The names of all those who have filed their sworn applications to have
their names printed on the official ballot as candidates shall be posted by the
City Secretary in a conspicuous place at his or her office for the inspection
of the public for at least ten days before he or she orders the ballots to be
printed.  All objections to the regularity or validity of the application of
any person shall be made within five days after the posting, by written notice
filed with the City Secretary, setting forth the grounds of objections.  In
case no such objection is filed within the time prescribed, the regularity or
validity of the application of no person whose name is so posted, shall be
thereafter contested.  The City Secretary shall preserve in his or her office
for a period of two years all applications, notice of objections, and other
related papers.
   (E)   Any person eligible to the office of Mayor, Council member or other
office who has filed his or her sworn application in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall have his or her name printed on the official
ballots.  Any such person may cause his or her name to be withdrawn at any time
before the official ballots are actually printed, by filing in writing with the
City Secretary a request to that effect over his or her own signature, duly
attested by a Notary Public.  No name so withdrawn shall be printed on the
ballots.  Not later than 20 days before the city general election the City
Secretary shall have the official ballots printed.
   (F)   Each qualified voter who desires to cast an absentee vote and who
expects to be absent on the day of the city general election shall be entitled
to an official ballot and the right to cast the ballot in accordance with the
provisions of Tex. Election Code § 82.001.
   (G)   Hereafter all municipal elections shall be conducted by one presiding
officer or judge and two assistant judges to be appointed by the Mayor of the
city; that the presiding officer shall be compensated for his or her services
and the assistant judges shall be compensated at a rate per day to be set by
Council from time to time, which services shall be paid from the General Fund
of the city.
   (H)   Hereafter all elections for the selection of officials shall be held
at the City Office or City Hall in the City of Wake Village, Bowie County,
Texas, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
   (I)   The City Marshal shall post a properly executed copy of the election
proclamation and notice at the place where the election is to be held.  This
notice shall be posted 30 days before the date of the election.
   (J)   It shall be the duty of the City Secretary to notify all persons
elected, and all newly elected officers may enter upon their duties on the
fifth day thereafter, Sundays excepted.  If any such officer fails to qualify
within 30 days after his or her election, his or her office shall be deemed
vacant, and a new election held to fill the same.
(Ord. 2-51, passed 2-14-1951)
§ 30.03  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The rate of compensation for City Council members for the city is
hereby continued and set at an amount per month to be set by Council from time
to time, beginning with the first month following the month of installation,
and ending the last month or fractional part of a month of service.
   (B)   The rate of compensation for the Mayor for the city is hereby
continued and set at an amount per month to be set by Council from time to
time, beginning with the first month following the month of installation and
ending the last month or fractional part of a month of service.
   (C)   This section shall not preclude reimbursement for actual expenses
incurred, in travel, meals, conferences and conventions, and other expenditures
by the Mayor or Council, on behalf of the city, as are approved by the City
Council.
   (D)   (1)   The City of Wake Village, Texas shall pay the monthly premiums
for life insurance for the Mayor of the city, and shall also pay the monthly
premiums for the health and accident insurance for the Mayor and the family of
the Mayor, in the amounts presently issued to the Mayor.
      (2)   This payment of insurance premiums shall be in addition to the
monthly payment to the Mayor of his or her salary.
      (3)   This payment of insurance premiums shall begin with the term of the
Mayor elected in the April, 1979 elections, and shall continue to be paid for
that and each succeeding term until changed by the City Council.
(Res. 16-78, passed 12-11-1978; Ord. 4-83, passed 3-14-1983)
§ 30.04  ACCESSIBLE VOTING SYSTEMS IN POLLING PLACES.
   As chief elections officer of the City of Wake Village, the City Secretary
shall provide at least one ES&S Auto Mark’s Voter Assist Terminal, Version
1.0.168 in each polling place in every polling location used to conduct any
election ordered on or after January 1, 2006.  The Auto Mark’s Voter Assist
Terminal, Version 1.0.168 may be acquired by any legal means available to the
city, including but not limited to lease or rental from the County of Bowie or
from any other legal source, as authorized or required by Tex. Election Code,
§§ 123.032 and 123.035.
(Res. 4-06, passed 2-13-2006)
CITY COUNCIL; RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS
§ 30.15  GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body shall be known as the City Council, and its members as
the Mayor and Council members.
(Ord. 5-71, passed 5-12-1971)
§ 30.16  TERMS OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   All city officers shall hold office for a period of two years.  The terms of
the Council members shall overlap, such that two Council members are elected in
the odd-numbered years and three Council members are elected in the even-
numbered years.
(Ord. 5-71, passed 5-12-1971)
Cross-reference:
   Manner of election, see §
30.02
§ 30.17  REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second
and fourth Mondays of each month at 7:00 p.m. and may be recessed from time to
time.
      (2)   In the event that the scheduled meeting day falls on a holiday, the
meeting for that day shall be held at 7:00 p.m. the following Monday. 
   (B)   All official meetings of the Council shall be held in public in the
City Hall.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971; Ord. 13-73, passed 6-13-1973; Ord. 21-73, passed
12-10-1973; Ord. 8-75, passed 5-14-1975; Ord. 5-76, passed 2-9-1976; Res. 10-
97, passed 7-28-1997; Ord. 7-02, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 30.18  QUORUM.
   A majority of the members elected to the Council shall constitute a quorum
to do business but any fewer members may have a call of the Council or may
adjourn or recess from time to time and may compel the attendance of absent
members.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971)
§ 30.19  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings shall be called by the City Secretary on the written
request of the Mayor or any three members of the Council on three-days’ notice
to the members of the City Council.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971)
§ 30.20  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   At the hour of the meeting the Mayor shall assume the Chair, call the
Council to order and the Secretary shall then call the roll. A quorum being
present, the Secretary, at each regular meeting, shall present to the Council
the minutes of all proceedings since the beginning of the last regular meeting
and shall read the same if so required by any Council member, and after their
correction, if any, and approval, the minutes shall be signed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971)
§ 30.21  ABSENCE OF MAYOR.
   In the absence or inability of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem shall preside
over the Council; or in the absence or inability of both, a temporary presiding
officer may be chosen from among the Council members.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971)
§ 30.22  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of business for regular Council meetings shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Meeting called to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Invocation;
      (4)   Presentation of minutes of previous meeting;
      (5)   Consideration of matters submitted by Mayor;
      (6)   Acceptance of petitions heretofore filed by the Secretary with the
Mayor;
      (7)   Docketed public hearings;
      (8)   Citizens to be heard; and
      (9)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The procedure of all meetings will be held in accordance with Robert’s
Rules of Order.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971)
§ 30.23  COMMENTS BY MEMBER.
   When a member wishes recognition, he or she shall address himself or herself
to the presiding officer, but shall not proceed with his or her remarks until
recognized and named by the Chair.  He or she shall then confine his or her
remarks to the question before the Council.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971)
§ 30.24  DECORUM; BEING CALLED TO ORDER.
   (A)   While a member is speaking, other members shall not hold private
discourse or in any manner interrupt the speaker.  In all discussions
disrespectful language and personalities shall be avoided.  Disturbance,
transgressions of the rules, or disorderly conduct in the Council Chamber may
cause the transgressor to be removed from the Chamber.
   (B)   A member called to order shall immediately desist from speaking unless
permitted to explain.  If the member appeals to the Council from the decision
of the Chair, the Council shall decide the matter without debate.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971)
§ 30.25  VOTING.
   Every member who shall be present when a question is stated by the Chair
shall vote thereon unless excused by the Council or unless he or she is
directly or particularly interested in the question, in which case he or she
shall not vote.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971)
§ 30.26  MOTIONS AND RESOLUTIONS, GENERALLY.
   (A)   Every motion or resolution shall be reduced to writing if the
presiding officer or any member desires it to be done, after which it shall be
stated by the Chair or read by the Secretary.  It shall then be deemed to be in
possession of the Council but may be withdrawn, at any time before a decision
or amendment.
   (B)   No new motion or proposition shall be admitted under color of an
amendment or of a substitute for the pending motion or proposition which does
not relate to the subject matter in the original motion or proposition.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971)
§ 30.27  MOTIONS WHILE QUESTION IS UNDER DEBATE.
   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be entertained except to
adjourn, to lay on the table, the previous question, to postpone to a certain
day, to postpone indefinitely, or to amend, which several motions shall have
precedence in the order named.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971)
§ 30.28  MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order unless another member has the
floor, and such a motion, or a motion to lay on the table, shall be decided
without debate.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971)
§ 30.29  MOTION FOR PREVIOUS QUESTION.
   A motion for the previous question or to lay on the table shall preclude all
amendment and debate on the main question, and a motion to amend or recess it
to a certain date shall precede all further amendment to the main question.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971)
§ 30.30  PRIORITY OF BUSINESS.
   All questions relating to the priority of business to be acted on shall be
decided without debate, and when reading of a paper is called for and its
reading not objected to by any member, the question shall be determined by a
vote of the Council.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971)
§ 30.31  PAPER DOCUMENTS. 
   No member of the Council or other person shall take any papers from the
Secretary’s office.  Copies of any official papers will be furnished to members
of the Council and department heads when needed for official business.  All
other persons will be charged for copies as set forth in §
33.30 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 6-71, passed 6-9-1971; Ord. 16-74, passed 10-9-1974; Ord. 13-94, passed
7-25-1994)
§ 30.32  PROCEDURE FOR CONSIDERATION AND FINAL PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All matters proposed for final consideration by the City Council will
be accompanied by a typed ordinance, with sufficient copies for the members of
the City Council, City Secretary, City Attorney and where appropriate, any
other department head whose department is affected.
   (B)   All ordinances to be considered for final passage will be provided the
City Secretary by 9:00 a.m. on the third day preceding the City Council meeting
at which the ordinance is to be considered, for inclusion in City Council
members’ packets.
   (C)   (1)   Any matter considered for passage by ordinance, in which a
prepared ordinance is not presented, is subject to two readings, the
preliminary or first consideration and the final consideration at the following
scheduled meeting.
      (2)   No ordinance will be presented for final consideration unless a
prepared ordinance has been filed with the City Secretary in accordance with
this section.
      (3)   If an ordinance is not considered for lack of a prepared ordinance,
it will be tabled and continued for such period as the Council decides.
      (4)   No ordinance will take effect until final consideration and passage
in accordance with this section.
   (D)   Any prepared ordinance that is amended may be passed with the written
amendments attached or may be tabled and continued, pending presentation of
prepared amended ordinance.
   (E)   The City Council may waive the requirements of this section by
majority vote of the members present, the Mayor voting only in the event of a
tie.
(Ord. 14-86, passed 7-28-1986)
MUNICIPAL COURT
§ 30.45  NAME OF COURT.
   Hereafter the Corporation Court shall be titled the Municipal Court.
(Ord. 9-71, passed 5-12-1971)
§ 30.46  RULES AND PROCEDURES TO ENFORCE COLLECTION OF FINES AND COSTS IMPOSED
BY COURT.
   (A)   The judgment, in case of conviction in a criminal action before the
Municipal Court of the City of Wake Village, Texas, shall be that the city
recover of the defendant the fine and costs, and that the defendant remain in
custody of the Marshal until the fine and costs are paid; and that execution
issue to collect the same.
   (B)   In each case of conviction before the Judge of the Municipal Court of
the City of Wake Village, Texas, from which no appeal is taken, an execution
(writ) shall issue for the collection of the fine and costs, which shall be
enforced and returned in the manner prescribed by law in civil actions before
justices.
   (C)   The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall tax the costs in every case in
which a final judgment has been rendered and shall issue execution to enforce
the judgment and collect the costs.  The execution and subsequent executions
shall not be addressed to a particular county, but shall be addressed to the
Marshal of the City of Wake Village, Texas.
   (D)   The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall issue the execution upon such
judgment upon the application of the City Attorney or the Mayor of the City of
Wake Village, after the expiration of 20 days from and after the rendition of a
final judgment in the Municipal Court, and after the overruling of any motion
therein for a new trial, or in arrest of the judgment, and if no appeal bond
has been filed and approved.
   (E)   The style of the execution shall be “The State of Texas.”  It shall be
directed to the Marshal of the City of Wake Village, Texas.  It shall be signed
by the Clerk of the Municipal Court, and shall require the Marshal to execute
it according to its terms, and to make the costs which have been adjudged
against the defendant in execution and the further costs of executing the
writ.  It shall describe the judgment, stating the Court in which, and the time
when rendered, and the name of the city in whose favor and against whom the
judgment was rendered.  A correct copy of the bill of costs taxed against the
defendant in execution shall be attached to the writ.  It shall require the
Marshal to return it within 30, 60, or 90 days, as directed by the city or its
attorney.
   (F)   When an execution is issued upon a judgment for a sum of money, or
directing the payment simply of a sum of money, it must specify in the body
thereof the sum recovered or directed to be paid and the sum actually due when
it is issued and the rate of interest upon the sum due.  It must require the
officer to satisfy the judgment and costs out of the property of the defendant
subject to execution by law.
   (G)   An execution issued upon a judgment for the sale of particular
personal property, must particularly describe the property, and shall direct
the officer to make the sale by previously giving the public notice of the time
and place of sale required by law.
   (H)   The Marshal receiving the execution shall indorse thereon the exact
hour and day when he or she received it. If he or she receives more than one on
the same day against the same person, he or she shall number them as received.
   (I)   When an execution is delivered to the Marshal, he or she shall proceed
without delay to levy the same upon the property of the defendant found within
his or her jurisdiction not exempt from execution, unless otherwise directed by
the City of Wake Village, Texas. The Marshal shall first call upon the
defendant, if he or she can be found or, if absent, upon his or her agent if
known, to point out property to be levied upon, and the levy shall first be
made upon the property designated by the defendant, or his or her agent.
   (J)   Personal property levied on under execution shall be offered for sale
on the premises where it is taken in execution, or at the Courthouse door of
the county, or at some other place if, owing to the nature of the property, it
is more convenient to exhibit it to purchasers at such place.  Personal
property susceptible of being exhibited shall not be sold unless the same be
present and subject to the view of those attending the sale, except shares of
stock in joint stock or incorporated companies, and in cases where the
defendant in execution has merely an interest without right to the exclusive
possession in which case the interest of defendant may be sold and conveyed
without the presence of delivery of the property.  When a levy is made upon
livestock running at large on the range, it is not necessary that such stock,
or any part thereof, be present at the place of sale, and the purchaser at such
sale is authorized to gather and pen the stock and select therefrom the number
purchased by him or her.
   (K)   In the notice of sale of personal property, previous notice of the
time and place of the sale of any personal property levied on under execution
shall be given by posting notice thereof for ten days successively immediately
prior to the day of sale at the Courthouse door of Bowie County, and at the
place where the sale is to be made.
   (L)   The levying Marshal or peace officer shall make due return of the
execution, in writing and signed by him or her officially, stating concisely
what the officer has done in pursuance of the requirements of the writ and of
the law.  The return shall be filed with the Clerk of the Court.  The execution
shall be returned forthwith if satisfied by the collection of the money or if
ordered by the City of Wake Village, Texas, indorsed thereon.
   (M)   The monies collected by execution to satisfy the fine and cost shall
be paid into the City Treasury of the city, for the use and benefit of the
city, but in no case shall there be collection of more than $200, or more than
prescribed by law to be collected of one convicted in a justice court.
   (N)   The Clerk of the Court shall keep an execution docket in which he or
she shall enter a statement of all executions as they are issued by him or her,
specifying the names of the parties, the amount of the judgment, the amount due
thereon, the costs, the date of issuing the execution, to whom delivered, and
the return of the officer thereon, with the date of the return.  This docket
entried shall be taken and deemed to be a record.  The Clerk shall keep an
index and cross-index to the execution docket.
(Ord. 3-54, passed 8-9-1954)
CHAPTER 31:  APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Section
City Officials
   
31.01   Filled by appointment; at-will employment
   
31.02   City Secretary; combined offices
   
31.03   City Attorney
   
31.04   Purchasing Agent
   
31.05   Deputy Treasurer
   
31.06   City Administrator
   
31.07   Water Superintendent
   
31.08   Local Health Authority
   
31.09   Code Enforcement Official
   
31.10   Deputy City Secretary
Court Officials
   
31.20   Deputy Court Clerk
   
31.21   Associate Municipal Judge
Cross-reference:
   Fire Marshal, see
Chapter 34 of this code of ordinances
CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.01  FILLED BY APPOINTMENT; AT-WILL EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   (1)   All offices of the City of Wake Village, Texas, except members
of the governing body, shall hereafter be filled by appointment as hereinafter
provided.
      (2)   The elected offices shall be filled by appointment by majority vote
of the City Council.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (A) shall be construed to prevent the
governing body of the city from exercising its power to confer upon any officer
additional duties or combine duties of offices as otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   (1)   All members of the Police Department, including the Chief of
Police, shall hold their employment at the pleasure of the City Council and
shall have no continued expectation of employment as that term is used in the
law of the State of Texas.  All the police officers and Police Chief may be
removed without cause.
      (2)   The person serving as the City Engineer shall serve in the capacity
of an independent contractor, and not an officer or employee of the city.  The
City Engineer shall continue to have such authority as required in the
performance of his or her contract, and shall continue to be designated the
City Engineer for such purposes as are required by the law of the State of
Texas, governmental agencies, contractors doing business with the city, bonding
and insurance requirements, and other similar necessary purposes.
      (3)   The person serving as the City Attorney shall serve in the capacity
of an independent contractor, and not an officer or employee of the city.  The
City Attorney shall continue to have such authority as required in the
performance of his or her contract, and shall continue to be designated the
City Attorney for such purposes as are required by the law of the State of
Texas, governmental agencies, contractors doing business with the city, and
other similar necessary purposes.
      (4)   All the officers, independent contractors, and police officers
serving the city, as have been designated in this section, and the City
Secretary and all department heads, shall be selected by the Mayor, as part of
his or her lawful duty, with the advice and consent of the City Council, any
such appointment requiring a two-thirds vote of the City Council.
      (5)   Any such department head, independent contractor, or police officer
may be terminated by the Mayor with a two-thirds vote of the City Council or by
a two-thirds vote of the City Council without the consent of the Mayor.  All
officers of the city shall be terminated in accordance with the provisions of
the personnel policy and the law of the State of Texas.
(Ord. 7-71, passed 5-12-1971; Ord. 28-82, passed 11-22-1982)
§ 31.02  CITY SECRETARY; COMBINED OFFICES.
   (A)   The office of City Secretary shall be appointive.  At the first
regular meeting held after the general city election held on the first Saturday
in April each odd-numbered year, or as soon thereafter as practicable, and
after the members of the City Council elected at that election in the odd-
numbered year have qualified and been installed in office, the City Council
shall, by majority vote, appoint a City Secretary to serve for a term of two
years, and until his or her successor shall have been duly appointed and
qualified.  The Secretary, at the beginning of each term of office, shall take
and subscribe to the official oath of office, and shall post bond in a sum as
the City Council shall direct, the premium on the bond to be paid by the city. 
The Secretary shall perform all of the statutory duties prescribed by law in
Tex. Rev. Civ. Stats., Art. 1000, and as hereafter amended, and such other
duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the City Council.
   (B)   The person appointed as City Secretary shall be ex-officio City
Treasurer of the city, and the powers and duties of the City Treasurer as
prescribed in Tex. Rev. Civ. Stats., Art. 1001, and as hereafter amended, are
hereby conferred on the person holding the office of City Secretary.
   (C)   The person appointed as City Secretary shall be ex-officio Assessor
and Collector of Taxes of the city, and the powers and duties of the Assessor
and Collector as prescribed in Tex. Rev. Civ. Stats., Chapter 5 of Title 28,
and as hereafter amended, are hereby conferred on the person holding the office
of City Secretary.
   (D)   The person appointed as City Secretary shall be ex-officio Clerk of
the Municipal Court of the city, and the powers and duties of Clerk of the
Court as prescribed in Tex. Rev. Civ. Stats., Art. 1200, and as hereafter
amended, are hereby conferred on the person holding the office of City
Secretary.
   (E)   Any bond posted by the City Secretary as required by division (A) of
this section shall extend to all of the duties and responsibilities imposed by
this section and applicable statutes.
(Ord. 8-71, passed 5-12-1971)
§ 31.03  CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The statutory office of City Attorney is hereby abolished and the City
Council shall not hereafter appoint nor select any person or fill the office of
City Attorney.
   (B)   The City Council is authorized and empowered to retain by resolution,
legal counsel, to advise, counsel, and/or represent the city, and to perform
all of the functions of the office of the City Attorney, not as a city officer,
but as retained counsel for the city; and the City Council is further
authorized to compensate the retained counsel for his or her services rendered.
   (C)   The attorney to be retained by the City Council shall be appointed by
majority vote of the Council and shall serve until released by the Council or
until his or her successor is appointed.
(Ord. 10-71, passed 5-12-1971)
§ 31.04  PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   The position of Purchasing Agent is hereby created to make purchases
for the City of Wake Village, Texas.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the position as outlined in
Resolution No. 11-90, which duties are attached to Ordinance 16-90, as set
forth in §
37.15, are hereby adopted and made a part of this section.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall be named as the Purchasing Agent and
shall perform the duties heretofore mentioned.
(Res. 11-90, passed 11-12-1990; Ord. 16-90, passed 11-12-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Purchasing policies, see
Chapter 37 of this code of ordinances
§ 31.05  DEPUTY TREASURER.
   (A)   The position of Deputy Treasurer is hereby created in order to have an
additional signatory on checks for the disbursement of city funds.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the position of Deputy Treasurer
are attached to Ordinance 10-88 and are hereby adopted and made a part of this
section.
   (C)   The term and conditions of the position shall be the same as the City
Treasurer.
   (D)   The full-time City Secretary shall be named as the Deputy Treasurer
and shall perform the duties heretofore mentioned.
(Ord. 10-88, passed 4-11-1988)
§ 31.06  CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Office of City Administrator.  The position of City Administrator is
hereby created.
   (B)   Appointment.  The City Administrator shall be appointed by a majority
vote of the elected City Council for an indefinite term.
   (C)   Removal.  The City Administrator shall serve at the will of the City
Council and may be removed or suspended by a majority vote of the elected City
Council.
   (D)   Powers and duties.  The powers and duties of the City Administrator
shall be those specifically defined in the job description for the position of
City Administrator as adopted by the City Council.
   (E)   Bond.  The City Administrator shall furnish a surety bond to be
approved by the City Council, which bond to be conditioned on the faithful
performance of his or her duties.  The premium of the bond shall be paid by the
city.
   (F)   Compensation.  The City Administrator’s salary shall be determined by
the City Council and shall be paid partially from the General Fund and
partially from the Revenue Fund of the city. As a salaried and appointed
employee, the City Administrator shall not be entitled to and shall not receive
supplementary compensation in any form for any work performed outside the
normal working hours of the position.
(Ord. 15-87, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 31.07  WATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Superintendent of the Water Department of the city shall,
beginning with the month of June, 1951, flush and grease all fire hydrants
within the city at least once every 90 days, and shall work all cutoff valves
in the water system at lease once every 90 days.
   (B)   The Water Superintendent shall also paint each and every fire hydrant
belonging to the city at least once each year with a good preservative paint.
(Ord. 3-51, passed 6-11-1951)
§ 31.08  LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITY.
   The City Council of the City of Wake Village, Texas, appoints the City
Administrator to be the legally appointed Local Health Authority.
(Res. 2-89, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 31.09  CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The position of Code Enforcement Official is hereby created to enforce
Chapter 92 of the city code. The term Code Enforcement Official shall include
and mean a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be removed as Code Enforcement Official and the
Public Works Foreman shall be and is hereby named the Code Enforcement Official
of the city and shall perform the duties as outlined in division (C) below.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Code Enforcement Official shall
be as follows:
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Official shall work under the direct
supervision of the City Administrator.
      (2)   Compensation for the Code Enforcement Official shall be as
prescribed by the Mayor and the City Council from time to time.
      (3)   The Code Enforcement Official shall send official notice to any
person or persons, firm, corporation or association of persons who shall within
the corporate limits of the city, commit, cause, create, permit, keep or
otherwise maintain a nuisance and shall enforce compliance of all other codes
concerning health and human safety.
      (4)   If the violation is not corrected within ten calendar days of the
receipt of the official notification from the Code Enforcement Official, the
matter shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police for further action as outlined
in Ordinance 2-05.
(Ord. 7-11, passed 8-8-2011; Ord. 2-13, passed 1-14-2013; Ord. 13-13, passed 8-
12-2013; Ord. 18-13, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 31.10  DEPUTY CITY SECRETARY.
   (A)   Creation of office.
      (1)   The position of Deputy City Secretary is hereby created.
      (2)   The Deputy City Secretary shall be appointed and terminated by the
City Administrator.
      (3)   The compensation of the Deputy City Secretary shall be set from
time to time by the City Council.
      (4)   The Deputy City Secretary shall be considered an at will employee
of the city.
   (B)   Qualifications.
      (1)   High School diploma or GED;
      (2)   Education and/or training in accounting, bookkeeping, and finance;
and
      (3)   Must be bondable.
(Ord. 14-12, passed 11-12-2012)
COURT OFFICIALS
§ 31.20  DEPUTY COURT CLERK.
   (A)   The position of Deputy Court Clerk is hereby created in order to
handle the same duties and responsibilities as the Court Clerk.
   (B)   The full-time City Secretary shall be named as the Deputy Court Clerk
and shall perform the duties heretofore mentioned.
(Ord. 12-88, passed 5-9-1988)
§ 31.21  ASSOCIATE MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (A)   Creation.  Pursuant to Article VI, Section 6 of the City Charter, the
office of Associate Municipal Judge is created.
   (B)   Powers and duties.  The Associate Municipal Judge shall have the same
powers and duties as the presiding Municipal Court Judge, as provided in
Article VI, Section 3 of the City Charter.
   (C)   Minutes.  The minutes of the proceedings of the Associate Municipal
Judge shall be kept by the Municipal Clerk.
   (D)   Appointment.  Pursuant to Article VI, Section 6 of the City Charter,
the Associate Municipal Judge shall be appointed in the same manner and for the
same term length as prescribed in Article VI, Section 2 of the City Charter. 
The Associate Municipal Judge shall be appointed every two years by Mayor,
subject to confirmation by the Council.  The Associate Municipal Judge shall
hold office at the pleasure of the City Council.  The Associate Municipal Judge
shall receive such compensation as shall be prescribed by the City Council.
(Res. R3-80, passed 2-11-1980; Res. R4-80, passed 3-10-1980; Res. R11-80,
passed 7-28-1980; Res. R1-81, passed 1-26-1981; Am. Ord. 4-17, passed 6-12-
2017)
CHAPTER 32:  CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Commissions and Committees
   
32.01   City Plan Commission
   
32.02   Zoning Commission
   
32.03   Red River Redevelopment Authority
Informal Organizations
   
32.15   Neighborhood Crime Watch
   
32.16   Citizens Group
   
32.17   Citizen Participation Plan adopted
 
   
32.99   Penalty
COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
§ 32.01  CITY PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a City Plan Commission in and for the City of
Wake Village, Texas, which Commission shall consist of two members, together
with the Mayor and City Secretary, who shall be members ex officio. The members
of this Commission shall serve without pay.
   (B)   Each of these members is a resident citizen, qualified voter, property
owner and taxpayer of the city.
   (C)   The foregoing members are hereby appointed for a term of one year. 
All vacancies shall be filled by appointments to be made by the City Council,
each member shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
   (D)   (1)   The Commission shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and
Secretary.  The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Commission. 
The Secretary shall perform such duties as may be required of him or her by the
Commission.
      (2)   Two members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum to transact
all business.
      (3)   The Commission may adopt such rules and regulations for the
government of the  Commission as it may deem proper and necessary.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Commission to investigate all proposed new
additions to the city and shall be vested with the power conferred by law by
Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, Ch. 212, and all amendments thereto, and shall do such
other and necessary things involving a future city plan for the city and shall
report all findings to the City Council, and make such recommendations as the
Commission may deem best for the interest of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 3-50, passed 2-13-1950)
§ 32.02  ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Zoning Commission, in and for the City of
Wake Village, Texas, which Commission shall consist of three members, together
with the Mayor and City Secretary, who shall be members ex officio.  The
members of this Commission shall serve without pay.
   (B)   Each of the members a resident citizen, qualified voter, property
owner and taxpayer of the city.
   (C)   The foregoing members are hereby appointed for a term of one year. 
All vacancies shall be filled by appointments to be made by the City Council,
and at the expiration of the term for which each of the above members is
appointed, each member shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified.
   (D)   (1)   The Commission shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and
a Secretary.  The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Commission. 
The Secretary shall perform such duties as may be required of him or her by the
Commission. 
      (2)   Two members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum to transact
all business. 
      (3)   The Commission shall adopt such rules and regulations for the
government of the Commission as it may deem proper and necessary.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Commission to recommend to the City
Council any and all changes, amendments, revisions and/or additions to the
regulations now existing or which shall be enacted in the future by the City
Council, in pursuance to Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code §§ 211.001 et seq., passed by the
regular session of the Fortieth Legislature of the State of Texas, and all
subsequent amendments thereto.  It shall also recommend what changes, if any,
it deems necessary in the boundaries of the various districts in the city, and
shall make reports to the City Council of any recommendations it deems
necessary, and shall hold public hearings thereon, before submitting its final
report upon the recommendations to the City Council members.  No such public
hearing shall be held by the Commission until at least 15-days’ notice of the
time and place of the hearing shall have been given to the parties in interest,
by publishing same in an official paper or a paper of general circulation in
the city.  After the public hearing, or hearings, the Zoning Commission shall
submit to the City Council its final report, embracing such recommendations
from time to time which it may deem appropriate and necessary.
   (F)   The Zoning Commission shall have the same powers now conferred by law
by Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code §§ 211.001 et seq., and the amendments thereto.  The
provisions of those Articles in so far as the same are applicable are hereby
adopted.
(Ord. 7-46, passed 12-10-1946)
§ 32.03  RED RIVER REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   The city, acting by and through the City Council of the City of Wake
Village, Texas, does hereby authorize the establishment of the Red River
Redevelopment Authority pursuant to the provisions of Tex. Rev. Civ. Stats.,
Art. 1269j-18.
(Res. 2, passed 4-14-1998)
INFORMAL ORGANIZATIONS
§ 32.15  NEIGHBORHOOD CRIME WATCH.
   (A)   All Neighborhood Watch areas shall be developed and coordinated
through the City Police Department.  The City Police Department shall conduct
initial meetings and shall promulgate rules and regulations for the operation
of the Neighborhood Crime Watch program.
   (B)   Any citizen choosing to start a Neighborhood Watch area on their
street will contact the City Police Department to schedule a neighborhood
organizational meeting.
   (C)   All Neighborhood Watch areas will be registered with the City Police
Department.  Block Captains will be registered through the City Police
Department by name, address, phone number, and any other information required
by the Police Department.
   (D)   All citizens who participate in the Neighborhood Crime Watch program
do so as a volunteer and assume the risk of any loss, injury, property damage
or death.  Neither the city nor the City Police Department is liable or
responsible for the injury, property damage or death of any participant in the
Neighborhood Crime Watch program.
(Ord. 8-03, passed 10-13-2003)  Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.16  CITIZENS GROUP.
   (A)   The City Council that a Citizens Group of 25 members shall be
appointed by the Mayor of the city.
   (B)   This Citizens Group should meet as needed, elect officers, and conduct
business for the betterment of the city.
(Res. 10-74, passed 11-13-1974)
§ 32.17  CITIZEN PARTICIPATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Citizen Participation Plan attached to Resolution R8-81 is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.  Copies are available
through city offices.
(Res. R8-81, passed 7-27-1981)
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
32.15 shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and upon conviction in the
Municipal Court of this city shall be fined no more than $500 as deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Judge.
(Ord. 8-03, passed 10-13-2003)
CHAPTER 33:  PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
Public Records
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Declaration as public property
   
33.03   Policy
   
33.04   Records Management Plan to be developed; approval of plan, authority of
plan
   
33.05   Designation of Records Management Officer
   
33.06   Duties of Records Management Officer
   
33.07   Duties and responsibilities of department heads
   
33.08   Designation of records liaison officers
   
33.09   Duties and responsibilities of records liaison officers
   
33.10   Records control schedules
   
33.11   Implementation of records control schedules; destruction of records
under schedule
   
33.12   Destruction of unscheduled records
   
33.13   Records Center
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
33.30   Open records
   
33.31   Fee for copies of police reports
PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 33.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Generally.  All documents, papers, letters, books, maps, photographs,
sound or video recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape, electronic media, or other
information recording media, regardless of physical form or characteristic and
regardless of whether public access to it, is open or restricted under the laws
of the state, created, or received by the city or any of its officers or
employees, pursuant to law or in the transaction of public business, are hereby
declared to be the records of the city and shall be created, maintained, and
disposed of in acordance with the provisions of this subchapter or procedures
authorized by it and in no other manner.
   (B)   Specifics.  For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DEPARTMENT HEAD.  The officer who by ordinance, order, or
administrative policy is in charge of an office of the city that creates or
receives records.
      (2)   ESSENTIAL RECORD.  Any record of the city necessary to the
resumption or continuation of operations of the city in an emergency or
disaster, to the recreation of the legal and financial status of the city, or
to the protection and fulfillment of obligations to the people of the state.
      (3)   PERMANENT RECORD.  Any record of the city for which the retention
period on a records control schedule is given as permanent.
      (4)   RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE.  A document prepared by or under the
authority of the Records Management Officer listing the records maintained by
the city, their retention periods, and other records disposition information
that the records management program may require.
      (5)   RECORDS LIAISON OFFICERS.  The persons designated under §
33.08.
      (6)   RECORDS MANAGEMENT.  The application of management techniques to
the creation, use, maintenance, retention, preservation, and disposal of
records for the purposes of reducing the costs and improving the efficiency of
recordkeeping.  The term includes the development of records control schedules,
the management of filing and information retrieval systems, the protection of
essential and permanent records, the economical and space-effective storage of
inactive records, control over the creation and distribution of forms, reports,
and correspondence, and the management of micrographics and electronic and
other records storage systems.
      (7)   RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER. The person designated in §
33.05.
      (8)   RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN.  The plan developed under §
33.04.
      (9)   RETENTION PERIOD.  The minimum time that must pass after the
creation, recording, or receipt of a record, or the fulfillment of certain
actions associated with a record, before it is eligible for destruction.
(Ord. 15-90, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.02  DECLARATION AS PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All municipal records as defined in §
33.01(A) are hereby declared to be the property of the city.  No municipal
official or employee has, by virtue of his or her or her position, any personal
or property right to the records even though he or she or she may have
developed or compiled them.  The unauthorized destruction, removal from files,
or use of the records is prohibited.
(Ord. 15-90, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.03  POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to provide for efficient,
economical, and effective controls over the creation, distribution,
organization, maintenance, use, and disposition of all municipal records
through a comprehensive system of integrated procedures for the management of
records from their creation to their ultimate disposition, consistent with the
requirements of the Texas Local Government Records Act, being Tex. Loc. Gov’t
Code §§ 201.001 et seq., and accepted records management practice.
(Ord. 15-90, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.04  RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL OF PLAN, AUTHORITY
OF PLAN.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer and the City Administrator shall
develop a records management plan for the city for submission to the Mayor and
City Council.  The plan must contain policies and procedures designed to reduce
the costs and improve the efficiency of recordkeeping, to adequately protect
the essential records of the city that are of historical value.  The plan must
be designed to enable the Records Management Officer to carry out his or her or
her duties prescribed by state law and this section effectively.
   (B)   Once approved by the Mayor and City Council, the records management
plan shall be binding on all offices, departments, divisions, programs,
commissions, bureaus, boards, committees, or similar entities of the city and
records shall be created, maintained, stored, microfilmed, or disposed of in
accordance with the plan.
   (C)   State law relating to the duties, other responsibilities, or
recordkeeping requirements of a department head do not exempt the department
head or the records in the department head’s care from the application of this
section and the records management plan adopted under it, and may not be used
by the department head as a basis for refusal to participate in the records
management program of the city.
(Ord. 15-90, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.05  DESIGNATION OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Secretary, and the successive holders of that office, shall serve
as Records Management Officer for the City of Wake Village, Texas.  As provided
by state law, each successive holder of the office shall file his or her or her
name with the Director and Librarian of the Texas State Library within 30 days
of the initial designation or of taking up the office, as applicable.
(Ord. 15-90, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.06  DUTIES OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, the Records
Management Officer shall:
   (A)   Administer the records management program and provide assistance to
department heads in its implementation;
   (B)   Plan, formulate, and prescribe records disposition policies, systems,
standards, and procedures;
   (C)   In cooperation with department heads identify essential records and
establish a disaster plan for each city office and department to ensure maximum
availability of the records in order to re-establish operations quickly and
with minimum disruption and expense;
   (D)   Develop procedures to ensure the permanent preservation of the
historically valuable records of the city;
   (E)   Establish standards for filing and storage equipment and for
recordkeeping supplies;
   (F)   Study the feasibility of and, if appropriate, establish a uniform
filing system and a forms design and control system for the city;
   (G)   Provide records management advice and assistance to all municipal
departments by preparation of a manual or manuals of procedure and policy and
by on-site consultation;
   (H)   Monitor records retention schedules and administrative rules issued by
the Texas State Library and Archives Commission to determine if the records
management program and the city’s records control schedules are in compliance
with state regulations;
   (I)   Disseminate to the City Council and department heads information
concerning state laws and administrative rules relating to local government
records;
   (J)   Instruct Records Liaison Officers and other personnel in policies and
procedures of the records management plan and their duties in the records
management program;
   (K)   Direct Records Liaison Officers or other personnel in the conduct of
records inventories in preparation for the development of records control
schedules as required by state law and this subchapter;
   (L)   Ensure that the maintenance, preservation, microfilming, destruction,
or other disposition of municipal records is carried out in accordance with the
policies and procedures of the records management program and the requirements
of state law;
   (M)   Maintain records on the volume of records destroyed under approved
records control schedules, the volume of records microfilmed or stored
electronically, and the estimated cost and space savings as the result of the
disposal or disposition;
   (N)   Report annually to the City Council on the implementation of the
records management plan in each department of the city, including summaries of
the statistical and fiscal data compiled under division (M) above; and
   (O)   Bring to the attention of the City Council noncompliance by department
heads or other city personnel with the policies and procedures of the records
management program or the Local Government Records Act.
(Ord. 15-90, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.07  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, department heads
shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with the Records Management Officer in carrying out the
policies and procedures established in the city for the efficient and
economical management of records and in carrying out the requirements of this
subchapter;
   (B)   Adequately document the transaction of government business and the
services, programs, and duties for which the department head and his or her or
her staff are responsible; and
   (C)   Maintain the records in his or her or her care and carry out their
preservation, microfilming, destruction, or other disposition only in
accordance with the policies and procedures of the records management program
of the city and the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-90, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.08  DESIGNATION OF RECORDS LIAISON OFFICERS.
   Each department head shall designate a member of his or her or her staff to
serve as Records Liaison Officer for the implementation of the records
management program in the department.  If the Records Management Officer
determines that, in the best interests of the records management program, more
than one Records Liaison Officer should be designated for a department, the
department head shall designate the number of Records Liaison Officers
specified by the Records Management Officer.  Persons designated as Records
Liaison Officers shall be thoroughly familiar with all the records created and
maintained by the department and shall have full access to all records of the
city maintained by the department.  In the event of the resignation,
retirement, dismissal, or removal by action of the department head of a person
designated as a Records Liaison Officer, the department head shall promptly
designate another person to fill the vacancy.  A department head may serve as
Records Liaison Officer for his or her or her department.
(Ord. 15-90, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.09  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF RECORDS LIAISON OFFICERS.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, Records Liaison
Officers shall:
   (A)   Conduct or supervise the conduct of inventories of the records of the
department in preparation for the development of records control schedules;
   (B)   In cooperation with the Records Management Officer coordinate and
implement the policies and procedures of the records management program in
their departments; and
   (C)   Disseminate information to department staff concerning the records
management program.
(Ord. 15-90, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.10  RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer, in cooperation with department heads
and Records Liaison Officers, shall prepare records control schedules on a
department by department basis listing all records created or received by the
department and the retention period for each record.  Records control schedules
shall also contain such other information regarding the disposition of
municipal records as the records management plan may require.
   (B)   Each records control schedule shall be monitored and amended as needed
by the Records Management Officer on a regular basis to ensure that it is in
compliance with records retention schedules issued by the state and that it
continues to reflect the recordkeeping procedures and needs of the department
and the records management program of the city.
   (C)   Before its adoption a records control schedule or amended schedule for
a department must be approved by the department head, the City Administrator
and the Mayor.
   (D)   Before its adoption a records control schedule must be submitted to
and accepted for filing by the Director and Librarian as provided by state
law.  If a schedule is not accepted for filing, the schedule shall be amended
to make it acceptable for filing.  The Records Management Officer shall submit
the records control schedules to the Director and Librarian.
(Ord. 15-90, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.11  IMPLEMENTATION OF RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES; DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS
UNDER SCHEDULE.
   (A)   A records control schedule for a department that has been approved and
adopted under §
33.06 shall be implemented by department heads and Records Liaison Officers
according to the policies and procedures of the records management plan.
   (B)   A record whose retention period has expired on a records control
schedule shall be destroyed unless an open records request is pending on the
record, the subject matter of the record is pertinent to a pending law suit, or
the department head requests in writing to the Records Management Officer that
the record be retained for an additional period.
(Ord. 15-90, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.12  DESTRUCTION OF UNSCHEDULED RECORDS.
   A record that has not yet been listed on an approved records control
schedule may be destroyed if its destruction has been approved in the same
manner as a record destroyed under an approved schedule and the Records
Management Officer has submitted to and received back from the Director and
Librarian an approved destruction authorization request.
(Ord. 15-90, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.13  RECORDS CENTER.
   A records center, developed pursuant to the plan required by §
33.06, shall be under the direct control and supervision of the Records
Management Officer.  Policies and procedures regulating the operations and use
of the records center shall be contained in the records management plan
developed under §
33.04.
(Ord. 15-90, passed 11-12-1990)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 33.30  OPEN RECORDS.
   For copies of official papers, as set forth in §
30.31, all persons other than members of Council and department heads will be
charged, pursuant to Tex. Govt. Code §§ 552.261 and 552.262, as follows:
   (A)   The charge for office machine copies of pages up to and including
legal size (eight and one-half inches by 14 inches) are as follows:
      (1)   For 50 pages or less of readily available information the charge
shall be $.10 per page; or
      (2)   For more than 50 pages of readily available information the charge
shall be $.85 for the first page and $.15 for each additional page.
      (3)   For any quantity of information deemed to be not readily available,
the actual charge shall be the combined components of $.70 for the first page
and $.15 for each page thereafter plus actual labor costs incurred in providing
the requested information.  Actual labor costs of providing information may
include costs of locating and preparing the information and may be computed by
multiplying the amount of time actually spent in these activities times the
salary rate of the employee performing these activities. For economy and
efficiency purposes, an average salary rate composed of all the individuals who
perform these tasks may be computed to be used as a standard rate to be applied
in all cases.  There will be no charge for personnel time in making records
available for public inspection under Tex. Govt. Code, Chapter 552.  Any postal
related expenses which may be necessary to transmit the reproduced documents to
the requesting party may be added to the charges established pursuant to this
division.
   (B)   A Public Information Request Form stating the name of the person, firm
or company requesting the information; date and time of request; and
description of public record(s) being requested with the requesting person’s
signature will be required before copies are produced.
(Ord. 13-94, passed 7-25-1994)
§ 33.31  FEE FOR COPIES OF POLICE REPORTS.
   The City Secretary is directed to charge $5 for copies of police reports.
(Res. R9-86, passed 6-9-1986)
CHAPTER 34:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   National Incident Management System (NIMS)
   
34.02   County Emergency Management Organization
Comprehensive Emergency Management Program
   
34.15   Organization
   
34.16   Emergency Management Director; powers and duties
   
34.17   Emergency Management Plan
   
34.18   Interjurisdictional program
   
34.19   Override
   
34.20   Liability
   
34.21   Commitment of funds
   
34.22   Offenses
   
34.23   Limitations
Police
   
34.35   Auxiliary police force created
   
34.36   Network Users’ Group
   
34.37   Excessive force
Fire Department
   
34.50   Organization; job descriptions
   
34.51   Rules for use of Fire Department Training Center
   
34.52   Arson reward
   
34.53   Fire Chief
   
34.54   Fire Department positions
   
34.55   Definition of active volunteer member
   
34.56   Remuneration
   
34.57   Records
   
34.58   Method of payment
   
34.59   Administration of department funds
   
34.60   Contributions to Fire Department
   
34.61   Funding
   
34.62   Liability
Cross-reference:
   Mutual aid agreements for fire protection, see
TSO II
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS).
   The City Council of the City of Wake Village, Texas hereby adopts the
National Incident Management System dated March 1, 2004.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.02  COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Bowie County Emergency Management
organization which shall consist of the officers and employees of the city and
of the county as designated in a interjurisdictional emergency management plan,
together with such organized volunteer groups as that plan may specify; and
   (B)   The Mayor of Wake Village, Texas and the Bowie County Judge shall each
appoint an Emergency Management Coordinator within their respective
jurisdiction to coordinate all aspects of the Wake Village/Bowie County program
of comprehensive emergency management, including the preparation and
maintenance of an interjurisdictional emergency management, including the
preparation and maintenance of an interjurisdictional emergency management plan
for Wake Village and Bowie County in accordance with this section.
(Res. 15-91, passed 11-12-1991; Res. passed 11-9-1999)
COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
§ 34.15  ORGANIZATION.
   There exists the office of Emergency Management Director of the City of Wake
Village, Texas, which shall be held by the Mayor in accordance with state law.
   (A)   An Emergency Management Coordinator may be appointed by and serve at
the pleasure of the Director;
   (B)   The Director shall be responsible for a program of comprehensive
emergency management within the city and for carrying out the duties and
responsibilities set forth in this subchapter.  He or she may delegate
authority for execution of these duties to the Coordinator, but ultimate
responsibility for the execution shall remain with the Director.
   (C)   The operational Emergency Management organization of the City of Wake
Village, Texas, shall consist of the officers and employees of the city so
designated by the Director in the emergency management plan, as well as
organized volunteer groups. The functions and duties of this organization shall
be distributed among the officers and employees in accordance with the terms of
the emergency management plan.
(Ord. 19-91, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 34.16  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Emergency Management Director shall
include the following:
   (A)   Conduct an on-going survey of actual or potential hazards which
threaten life and property within the city and an on-going program of
identifying and requiring or recommending the implementation of measures which
would tend to prevent the occurrence or reduce the impact of such hazards if a
disaster did occur;
   (B)   Supervision of the development and approval of an emergency management
plan for the city, and shall recommend for adoption by the City Council all
mutual aid arrangements deemed necessary for the implementation of the plan;
   (C)   Authority to declare a local state of disaster.  The declaration may
not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days except by or
with the consent of the City Council.  Any order or proclamation declaring,
continuing, or terminating a local state of disaster shall be given prompt and
general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the City Secretary;
   (D)   Issuance of necessary proclamations, regulations, or directives which
are necessary for carrying out the purposes of this subchapter.  Such
proclamation, regulations, or directives shall be disseminated promptly by
means calculated to bring its contents to the attention of the general public
and, unless circumstances attendant on the disaster prevent or impede, promptly
filed with the City Secretary;
   (E)   Direction and control of the operations of the city emergency
management organization as well as the training of emergency management
personnel;
   (F)   Determination of all questions of authority and responsibility that
may arise within the emergency management organization of the city;
   (G)   Maintenance of liaison with other municipal, county, district, state,
regional or federal emergency management organizations;
   (H)   Marshaling of all necessary personnel, equipment, or supplies from any
department of the city to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the
emergency management plan;
   (I)   Supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements, in
cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other local political
subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if deemed desirable,
of an agreement with the county in which the city is located and with other
municipalities within the county, for the county-wide coordination of emergency
management efforts;
   (J)   Supervision of, and final authorization for the procurement of all
necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private contributions
which may be offered for the purpose of improving emergency management within
the city;
   (K)   Authorizing of agreements, after approval by the City Attorney, for
use of private property for public shelter and other purposes;
   (L)   Survey of the availability of existing personnel, equipment, supplies,
and services which could be used during a disaster, as provided for herein; and
   (M)   Other requirements as specified in the Texas Disaster Act of 1975,
Tex. Gov’t Code, Chapter 418.
(Ord. 19-91, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 34.17  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   A comprehensive emergency management plan shall be developed and maintained
in a current state. The plan shall set forth the form of the organization;
establish and designate officers and employees to carry out the provisions of
this subchapter.  As provided by state law, the plan shall follow the standards
and criteria established by the State Division of Emergency Management of the
State of Texas. Insofar as possible, the form of organization, titles, and
terminology shall conform to the recommendations of the State Division of
Emergency Management. When approved, it shall be the duty of all departments
and agencies to perform the functions assigned by the plan and to maintain
their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness at all times. The
emergency management plan shall be considered supplementary to this section and
have the effect of law during the time of a disaster.
(Ord. 19-91, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 34.18  INTERJURISDICTIONAL PROGRAM.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to join with the County Judge of the County
of Bowie and the mayors of the other cities in the county in the formation of
an interjurisdictional emergency management program for the County of Bowie,
and shall have the authority to cooperate in the preparation of an
interjurisdictional emergency management plan and in the appointment of a joint
Emergency Management Coordinator, as well as all powers necessary to
participate in a county-wide program of emergency management insofar as the
program may affect the city.
(Ord. 19-91, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 34.19  OVERRIDE.
   At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this subchapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede and
override all existing ordinances, orders, rules, and regulations insofar as the
latter may be inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. 19-91, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 34.20  LIABILITY.
   This subchapter is an exercise by the city of its governmental functions for
the protection of the public peace, health, and safety and neither the city,
the agents and representatives of the city, nor any individual, receiver, firm,
partnership, corporation, association, or trustee, nor any of the agents
thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to comply
with any order, rule, or regulation promulgated pursuant to the provisions of
this subchapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to persons as the
result of that activity.  Any person owning or controlling real estate or other
premises who voluntarily and without compensation grants to the city a license
of privilege, or otherwise permits the city to inspect, designate, and use the
whole or any part or parts of the real estate or premises for the purpose of
sheltering persons during an actual, impending, or practice enemy attack or
natural or manmade disaster shall, together with his or her successors in
interest, if any, not be civilly liable for the death of, or injury to, any
person on or about the real estate or premises under the license, privilege or
other permission or for loss of, or damage to, the property of the person.
(Ord. 19-91, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 34.21  COMMITMENT OF FUNDS.
   No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city in
carrying out any emergency management activity authorized by this section
without prior approval by the City Council, nor shall any person have any right
to bind the city by contract, agreement, or otherwise without prior and
specific approval of the City Council unless during a declared disaster. 
During a declared disaster, the Mayor may expend and/or commit public funds of
the city when deemed prudent and necessary for the protection of health, life,
or property.
(Ord. 19-91, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 34.22  OFFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder, or
delay any member of the Emergency Management organization in the enforcement of
any rule or regulation issued pursuant to this section.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry, or
display any emblem, insignia, or any other means of identification as a member
of the Emergency Management organization of the city, unless authority to do so
has been granted to that person by the proper officials.
   (C)   Any unauthorized person who shall operate a siren or other device so
as to simulate a warning signal, or the termination of a warning, shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this subchapter and shall be subject to the
penalties imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 19-91, passed 11-12-1991)  Penalty, see § 34.99
§ 34.23  LIMITATIONS.
   This section shall not be construed so as to conflict with any state or
federal statute or with any military or naval order, rule, or regulation.
(Ord. 19-91, passed 11-12-1991)
POLICE
§ 34.35  AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Wake Village, Texas Reserve Police
Department composed of personnel who have volunteered to join the organization
and whose application for membership has been accepted and who have complied
with the rules, regulations, and orders provided for the conduct and control of
the members thereof.  Its membership shall not exceed the authorized number of
commissioned officers of the regular police force.  Members of the Reserve
Police Department shall not be considered as employees of the city for any
purposes other than supervision and control while on duty.
   (B)   The members of the Reserve Police Department shall be under the
authority, control, and command of the Chief of Police of the city subject to
all of the provisions of the ordinances of the city. Members shall be appointed
from a list of eligibles compiled as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   A list of eligibles shall be established as follows:
      (1)   All applicants for positions in the Reserve Police Department must
apply in writing on the form prescribed by the Chief of Police.
      (2)   All applicants for positions in the Reserve Police Department must
meet the following basic qualifications:
         (a)   Must be over 21 years of age;
         (b)   A native-born United States citizen and an actual resident of
the city;
          (c)   Graduate of a standard high school;
          (d)   Must be free of all physical and mental defects;
          (e)   Must be of good moral character; and
          (f)   Must never have been convicted of a felony.
   (D)   (1)   Selections will be made through examinations and appointments
will be made by the Chief of Police and must be approved by the City Council. 
All examinations shall be impartial, practical in their character, and shall
relate to those matters which fairly test the relative capacity of the persons
examined to discharge the duties of the position to which they expect to be
appointed.
      (2)   All applicants successfully completing the examination shall,
before appointment, be subjected to:
         (a)   Rigid background investigation;
         (b)   Fingerprint check for criminal record;
         (c)   A driver’s license record check;
         (d)   Credit rating check; and
         (e)   Physical examination.
      (3)   Failure to receive a favorable report on any of the investigations
mentioned in division (D)(2) above shall reject the applicant.
      (4)   All applicants upon appointment to the Reserve Police Department
shall subscribe to an oath that he or she will obey and observe the
Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the State of Texas, and
the laws of this nation, this state, and this city, and that he or she will
carry out the duties of a member of the Reserve Police Department.
   (E)   (1)   The duties of the Reserve Police Department, subject at all
times to the direction, supervision, and control of the Chief of Police, shall
be to assist the regular members of the Police Department of this city in the
enforcement of the law, and in the maintenance of peace and order during
periods of emergency designated by the Chief of Police.  The Chief of Police
may, by order, establish rules and regulations to govern the Reserve Police
Department, to fix the specific duties of its members, and to provide for the
maintenance of discipline.  He or she may change the orders from time to time,
and he or she may command members of the Reserve Police Department to obey the
instructions of regular police officers in carrying out their duties.
      (2)   The Chief of Police may prescribe other duties than those mentioned
herein to be performed by the Reserve Police Department, not inconsistent with
the provisions hereof.
   (F)   An identification card and other insignia or evidence of identity as
the Chief may prescribe shall be issued to each new member, who must carry the
card and other identification at all times while on duty, and he or she must
surrender them upon termination of his or her membership.  All commissions
shall expire automatically at midnight on December 31 in any year.  A renewal
of the commission for any next ensuing year may be had by the filing of an
application by any holder of any commission.  The applications shall be on
forms prescribed by the Chief of Police, properly filled out by the applicant
giving his or her full name and address and by giving the number of his or her
existing commission.  This application shall be filed with the Chief of Police.
   (G)   If application is not presented on or before January 31 of the year
for which renewal is sought, then anyone desiring the commission as a member of
the Reserve Police Department shall make application as in the first instance
when an applicant did not hold a commission.
   (H)   Membership of any person may be terminated by the Chief of Police at
any time for any cause deemed sufficient by the Chief.  Any member may resign
from the Reserve Police Department at any time, but it shall be the duty of the
member to notify the Chief of Police of his or her resignation.
   (I)   The Chief of Police may, by order, diminish the membership of the
Reserve Police Department as may be required.
   (J)   Members of the Reserve Police Department may bear firearms while they
are discharging official duties as a duly constituted peace officer only after
completing training prescribed by the Commission on Law Enforcement Officer
Standards and Education and then only by specific order and authorization of
the Chief of Police.
   (K)   (1)   Reserve officers, when on duty as reserve police officers of the
city at the direction of the Chief of Police shall have all of the duties,
responsibilities, and authority of a regular commissioned officer of the city,
and shall exercise those duties, responsibilities, and authority as such.
      (2)   Reserve officers shall only operate at the time, date, and under
the direction of the Chief of Police, and no reserve officer shall undertake to
perform any duties as a reserve officer of the city except when directed by the
Chief of Police.
   (L)   Each member shall fulfill the minimum training standard established by
the Commission on Law Enforcement Officer Standards and Education and such
other training as prescribed by the Chief of Police.
   (M)   Members of the Reserve Police Department shall receive no remuneration
for their services and shall voluntarily serve without pay; provided, however,
that after periods of extra hazardous service or service of unduly long hours,
the Chief may recommend payment to be approved by the City Council. Such
payment if approved by the City Council shall be at a rate not to exceed that
paid to a probationary patrol officer of the regular Police Department.
   (N)   In addition to the penalties provided by law, any violation of law
under color of the performance of his or her duties as a member of the Reserve
Police Department, any breach of the rules and regulations established by the
Chief of Police shall subject any member to summary expulsion.
   (O)   The Chief of Police shall prescribe the uniforms and badges for the
members of the Reserve Police Department and direct the manner in which the
same shall be worn.
(Ord. 12-73, passed 6-13-1973; Ord. 9-74, passed 6-12-1974; Ord. 23-82, passed
10-11-1982)
§ 34.36  NETWORK USERS’ GROUP.
   The City Council of the City of Wake Village, Texas, in regular session
convened, hereby endorses and approves the Wake Village Police Department’s
participation in the joint venture of an area network with other law
enforcement agencies within the states of Arkansas, Louisiana, and Texas.
(Res. 9-89, passed 10-9-1989)
§ 34.37  EXCESSIVE FORCE.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to prohibit the use of excessive force by
the law enforcement agencies within its jurisdiction against any individual
engaged in nonviolent civil rights demonstration. The city also prohibits the
physical barring of any entrance to, or exit from, such a facility within its
jurisdiction.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city to enforce this policy to the full extent
allowed by law.
(Res. 14-05, passed 10-10-2005)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.50  ORGANIZATION; JOB DESCRIPTIONS.
   The organizational chart attached to Ordinance 11-89 and job descriptions
are hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 11-89, passed 7-10-1989)
§ 34.51  RULES FOR USE OF FIRE DEPARTMENT TRAINING CENTER.
   A listing of rules and regulations for use of the Fire Department Training
Center shall be as follows:
   (A)   Rules for use of the Fire Department Training Center.
      (1)   Order of priorities.
         (a)   Scheduled Fire Department functions;
         (b)   City departments or organizations functioning within the city;
and
         (c)   Responsible organizations or individuals that are of charitable
or civic nature if use is approved by the Fire Chief, City Administrator, or
employee designated by either the Fire Chief or City Administrator.
      (2)   Charges for use of Training Center.
         (a)   No charge for Fire Department scheduled function;
         (b)   No charge for city departments or organizations functioning
within the city; and
         (c)   Responsible organizations or individuals that are of charitable
or civic nature, if use is approved, will be charged the following:
            1.   For noncommercial use, a fee of $50 to cover expenses will be
charged.
            2.   For commercial use, a fee of $150 will be charged.
            3.   Additional charges will be made for damages other than normal
wear and tear.
            4.   A $100 deposit must be made prior to use and is refundable if
areas used are left as found.
      (3)   Copy of regulations.  Any person or group given permission to use
the Training Center will be furnished written regulations governing the use of
the Training Center.  The person who applies for its use will be responsible
for seeing that the rules are kept and the areas used are left in the condition
they were found.  If applicable, the Center is to be secured and the key
returned as instructed.  The Fire Chief, City Administrator, or designated
employee will check the condition of the areas used before deposit is
returned.  The responsible person must pay for any cleaning or repairs that
have to be made if found to be necessitated by the person’s or group’s
occupancy.
      (4)   Schedule.  The Fire Chief, City Administrator, or designated
employee shall maintain a schedule for the use of the Training Center.  The
Fire Chief, City Administrator, or approved city employee will check the areas
used before and deposit refunds are made.  The City Secretary will collect
appropriate fees.
      (5)   Requests in advance.  Requests for use of the Training Center
should be made at least ten work days prior to actual date of usage, if
possible.  Requests shall be made to City Hall at 903-838-0515.
   (B)   Regulations for use of the Fire Department Training Center.
      (1)   There are to be no items fastened to the walls or doors by any
means unless prior approval is received from the Fire Chief or City
Administrator and will include the use of pins, tacks, staples, tape of any
kind, putty, or other means of fastening.
      (2)   No item may be hung from the ceiling without prior permission.
      (3)   No material, permanent or temporary, may be fastened to or woven
through the mini-blinds.
      (4)   If the coffee maker is authorized for use, it must be cleaned
properly. Trash must be gathered and removed from premises.
      (5)   No item, permanent or temporary, such as additional cork boards,
chalk boards, or other items are to be fastened to the walls without express
permission.
      (6)   If furniture is moved for the user’s function, it is to be returned
to the room and/or arranged as it was found.
      (7)   The floor is to be swept, mopped, or vacuumed, as the case may be,
after the use of the area, if it is needed because of the user’s occupancy.
      (8)   No smoking is allowed in any city building or city vehicle. A
designated smoking area behind the building is allowed.  Please do not leave
cigarette remains or other litter on the ground.
(Res. 1-99, passed 1-12-1999)
§ 34.52  ARSON REWARD.
   The city hereby offers a reward of $250 for the arrest and conviction of any
person or persons found guilty of committing the crime of arson within the
corporate limits of the city.  This reward is a standing offer, and shall be
paid out of the General Fund for the city.
(Ord. 2-62, passed 3-6-1962)
§ 34.53  FIRE CHIEF.
   The governing body of the city deems it advisable and in the best interest
of the city to create the permanent position of Fire chief of the Wake Village
Fire Department. The position of Fire Chief shall be compensated as determined
by the governing body from time to time. The duties of the Fire Chief shall be
prescribed by the governing body.
(Ord. 2-06, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 34.54  FIRE DEPARTMENT POSITIONS.
   The positions of the Fire Department shall consist of the Fire Chief,
Assistant Fire Chief, Captain and Firefighter. The Fire Chief is appointed by
the Mayor and confirmed by absolute majority of the City Council. The Fire
Chief will appoint all necessary officers within the department subject to
approval by the Mayor. Individuals appointed shall hold their offices until
their successors are appointed and qualified.
(Ord. 12-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 34.55  DEFINITION OF ACTIVE VOLUNTEER MEMBER.
   All active volunteer members of the Wake Village Fire Department, who are in
good standing with the department, shall be entitled to receive a remuneration
as hereinafter provided. For a member to be in good standing, the member must
have attended all of the previous fire and training meetings, be in compliance
with all rules, regulations, and code of conduct of the Wake Village Volunteer
Fire Department for the past 90 days, subject to review by the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief. Excused absences will be allowed.
(Ord. 12-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 34.56  REMUNERATION.
   Remuneration shall be paid at a rate of $5.00 per attendance at the
following events:
   (A)   Response to an Emergency Medical Service (EMS) call wherein assistance
is given to emergency medical services. A total of two volunteers to be paid to
respond with the full-time paid personnel of the Fire Department. This shall
not limit the number of volunteers who may respond.
   (B)   Attendance at fires (commercial and residential) and/or motor vehicle
accidents are to be paid to all volunteers members who respond to such call.
   (C)   Fire Department training sessions are to be paid to all volunteer
members who attend sessions conducted at the Wake Village Fire Department.
(Ord. 12-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 34.57  RECORDS.
   (A)   The Captain on the shift shall maintain a record of those attending
each such event for the purposes of recording and making note of their
remuneration records.
   (B)   An example of the remuneration record shall be included in this policy
and kept on file, to be completed by the Captain. The remuneration record will
be balanced weekly by the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief.
(Ord. 12-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 34.58  METHOD OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Date of payment. Remuneration shall be paid in semi-annual
installments. One payment in the month of June and the other payment in the
month of December. The June payment shall include attendance at events from
December through May of the preceding term. The December payment shall include
attendance at events from June through November. Such remuneration shall be
paid from the Fireman’s Club Fund.
   (B)   Taxable income. Such remuneration is income to the Volunteer
Firefighter who receives it. Such remuneration shall be reported and shown on a
Form 1099 for income received, for which no withholding has taken place subject
to applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
(Ord. 12-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 34.59  ADMINISTRATION OF DEPARTMENT FUNDS.
   (A)   All contributions or funds raised by the Fire Department shall be
deposited in an account described as follows: Wake Village Fireman’s Fund. All
funds so deposited shall be expended for the benefit of Fire Department
requirements only, subject to the city’s purchase order policy.
   (B)   All funds being withdrawn from such depository on the checks of the
Wake Village Fireman’s Fund account shall be signed by the Mayor and counter-
signed by the City Secretary.
   (C)   All present fire equipment, apparatus and buildings shall be the
property of the city and all fire equipment, apparatus or any equipment
purchased by the Fire Department shall become the property of the city and be
listed under the assets of the city.
(Ord. 12-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 34.60  CONTRIBUTIONS TO FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Chief has the authority to accept contributions to the city
Fire Department. Such contributions shall be used for the purchase of equipment
or property for use by the city Fire Department. All contributions shall be
made of record and such records made available to the Mayor or City Council
upon request.
   (B)   Any contribution of firefighting equipment or contributions of
personal or real property to the Fire Department shall become the property of
the city.
(Ord. 12-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 34.61  FUNDING.
   The city may through the yearly fiscal budget provide funding to assist in
maintaining operations of the Fire Department as needed and approved by the
City Council. Evaluation of needed funds shall be prepared by the Fire Chief
and presented to the Mayor each year at budget preparation time.
(Ord. 12-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 34.62  LIABILITY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief charged with the enforcement of this subchapter, acting
for the city in the discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby render
himself or herself liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of
any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties.
   (B)   Any suit brought against the Fire Chief because of such act performed
by him or her in the enforcement of any provision in this subchapter shall be
defended by the City Attorney until the final termination of the proceedings.
(Ord. 12-13, passed 6-10-2013)
CHAPTER 35:  TAXATION
Section
Taxes
   
35.01   Ad valorem taxes for each fiscal year
   
35.02   Telecommunications services tax
   
35.03   No discount for early payment
   
35.04   Goods-in-transit tax
Exemptions
   
35.15   Residence homestead exemption for the elderly
   
35.16   Residential gas and electric bills for residential use
   
Appendix A:  Homestead Exemption Affidavit (Form)
Cross-reference:
   Tax collection by Bowie County Appraisal District, see
TSO II
TAXES
§ 35.01  AD VALOREM TAXES FOR EACH FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   There shall be and there is levied, and there shall be assessed and
collected for each fiscal year on all taxable property located and situated
within the corporate limits of the city, an ad valorem tax of an amount to be
set by Council from time to time, on each $100 valuation of all the taxable
property of defraying the current expenses of the city.
   (B)   There shall be and there is levied, and there shall be assessed and
collected for each fiscal year on all taxable property located and situated
within the corporate limits of the city, an ad valorem debt tax rate of an
amount to be set by Council from time to time on each $100 valuation of all the
taxable property of defraying the current expenses of the city.
(Ord. 15-06, passed 9-11-2006; Am. Ord. 10-07, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord. 9-08,
passed 9-8-2008; Am. Ord. 11-09, passed 9-14-2009; Am. Ord. 8-11, passed 9-12-
2011)
§ 35.02  TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES TAX.
   (A)   (1)   A tax is hereby authorized on all telecommunications services
sold within the city.  For purposes of this section, the sale of
telecommunications services is consummated at the location of the telephone or
other telecommunications device from which the call or other communication
originates. If the point of origin cannot be determined, the sale is
consummated at the address to which the call or other communication is billed.
      (2)   The application of the exemption provided for in Tex. Tax Code §
321.210 and § 321.210(b) thereof.
      (3)   The rate of the tax imposed by this section shall be the same as
the rate imposed by the city for all other local sales and use taxes as
authorized by the legislature of the State of Texas.
      (4)   The City Secretary shall forward to the Comptroller of the State of
Texas by United States registered mail a copy of this section along with a copy
of the minutes of the City Council’s vote and discussion on this section.
      (5)   This section shall become effective as of October 1, 1999.
   (B)   The tax provided for hereunder shall not serve as an offset to, be in
lieu of, or in any way reduce any amount payable to the city pursuant to any
franchise, street use ordinance, statute or, without limitation by the
foregoing enumeration, otherwise payable by any provider of telecommunications
service; it being the express intent hereof that all the obligations,
impositions, and agreements of every kind and nature shall remain in full force
and effect without reduction or limitation hereby.
(Ord. 12-99, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 35.03  NO DISCOUNT FOR EARLY PAYMENT.
   No discounts will be given for early payment of city taxes.
(Res. R7-86, passed 6-9-1986)
§ 35.04  GOODS-IN-TRANSIT TAX.
   All goods-in-transit, as defined by Tex. Prop. Tax Code § 11.253, shall be
subject to ad valorem taxation by the city, pursuant to the city’s annual ad
valorem tax assessment, if not otherwise exempt or subject to abatement by law
other than § 11.253 and Tex. Const. Art. VIII, § 1-n.
(Ord. 12-07, passed 11-12-2007; Res. 17-11, passed 12-20-2011)
EXEMPTIONS
§ 35.15  RESIDENCE HOMESTEAD EXEMPTIONS FOR THE ELDERLY.
   (A)   Application for exemption.
      (1)   The exemption provided for by this section shall not be allowed
unless the person claiming the exemption shall file with the City Tax Assessor-
Collector, between January 1 and April 30 of the year for which the exemption
is claimed, documentary proof of age satisfactory to the Tax Assessor-Collector
and a sworn claim for the exemption, describing the property for which
exemption is sought, giving complete information as provided for on a sworn
application substantially in the form set forth in Appendix A to this chapter.
      (2)   In the event of good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Tax
Assessor-Collector, late applications may be accepted, but no later, in any
event, than ten days prior to time for submission of assessment rolls to the
Board of Equalization.  After the filing of such proof of age and claim for
exemption, the Tax Assessor-Collector may, if he or she deems it necessary,
request further information in order to determine eligibility for the
exemption, which information shall be provided by applicant as a prerequisite
to obtaining the exemption.  The application for exemption shall be made
annually for each year that the exemption is sought.
   (B)   Determination by Tax Assessor-Collector.  After the application, all
necessary proof and any other necessary information has been filed, the Tax
Assessor-Collector shall determine eligibility for the exemption.  The
determination of the Tax Assessor-Collector shall be final and the property in
question shall be placed on the tax rolls of the city in accordance with this
determination.  However, in the event the Tax Assessor-Collector should deny
the application for exemption, notice shall be given to the applicant within
ten days of the determination and in any event no later than the submission of
all assessment lists to the Board of Equalization.  However, there shall be no
appeal of the Tax Assessor-Collector’s determination.
   (C)   Limitations of exemption.  The exemption authorized hereby shall
extend only to a residential homestead as same may be defined by the laws of
the State of Texas.  The exemption shall be allowed only if the property in
question is in fact the residential homestead of the applicant and that person
has attained the age of 65 years on January 1 of the taxable year in question. 
The exemption shall be granted if one spouse has attained the age of 65 years
on the application date even though the other has not attained that age.
   (D)   Determination date for exemption.  January 1 of each tax year shall be
the determinative date for eligibility for the exemption and qualification
therefor shall be determined each year as of that date. Determination of
eligibility for the exemption shall be for only the year in question with each
subsequent year requiring application and determination of the exemption
provided for in this section for any taxable year either in the event of
qualification or disqualification of either any applicable person or property
for the exemption after January 1 of the applicable year.
   (E)   Ad valorem tax limitation on certain residential homesteads.
      (1)   Exemption, effective date.  Upon compliance with all requirements
of this section and all other applicable laws and ordinances, $10,000 of the
assessed value of residence homesteads of persons 65 years of age or older
shall be exempt from ad valorem taxes levied by the city.  This exemption shall
be effective as to such residence homesteads as may qualify hereunder from and
after January 1, 1984. Eligibility for the exemption shall be determined each
year as of January 1 of that year.
      (2)   A person who is disabled or who is 65 years of age or older shall
receive a residence homestead exemption prescribed or authorized by Article
VIII, § I-b, Subsection (h) of the Texas Constitution.  The total amount of ad
valorem taxes imposed on the residence homestead of a person who is disabled or
is 65 years of age or older shall not be increased while it remains the
residence homestead of that person or that person’s spouse who is disabled or
65 years of age or older.
      (3)   If the person who is disabled or is 65 years of age or older dies
in a year in which the person received a residence homestead exemption, the
total amount of ad valorem taxes imposed on the residence homestead shall not
be increased while it remains the residence homestead of that person’s
surviving spouse if the spouse is 55 years of age or older at the time of the
person’s death.
      (4)   Notwithstanding divisions (F)(1) and (2), taxes on the residence
homestead may be increased to the extent the value of the homestead is
increased by improvements other than repairs and other than improvements made
to comply with governmental requirements.
(Ord. 5-74, passed 3-13-1974; Ord. 15-84, passed 8-13-1984; Ord. 2-04, passed
3-8-2004)
§ 35.16  RESIDENTIAL GAS AND ELECTRIC BILLS FOR RESIDENTIAL USE.
   (A)   RESIDENTIAL USE, as that term is used in this section, refers to
family dwellings, multi-family apartments, housing complexes, and other family
uses of gas and electric services, provided that no dwelling or building that
is used for any other additional purpose is included in the term RESIDENTIAL
USE, even though a partial use of the building or dwelling is used for
residential purposes.  In order to be exempt from the city sales tax, there can
be no other use of the building or through the electric meter or gas meter
except for residential purposes.
   (B)   There is exempt from the city sales tax, all use and delivery of
electric and gas services, wherein the use is residential, as that term is
defined in this section.
   (C)   The exemption from the city sales tax shall become effective October
1, 1978, and no gas or electric services rendered after that date shall bear
the city sales tax.
(Ord. 14-78, passed 8-14-1978)
APPENDIX A:  HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION AFFIDAVIT (FORM)
HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION AFFIDAVIT
THE STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF BOWIE
      BEFORE ME, THE UNDERSIGNED AUTHORITY, on this day personally appeared the
affiant/applicant whose name is shown below, who, being by me first duly sworn
did on his or her or her oath depose and say that all of the answers given
below are true and correct and that the property described below is his or her
or her residential homestead and the only residential homestead that he or she
or she claims and made application for residential homestead ad valorem tax
exemption this year.
      (1)   NAME OF OWNER:
   Mailing Address:                                                            
                                   
   Telephone Number:                                                          
                                     
   Social Security No.:                                                       
                                         
         (If deceased, so state)
      (2)   Legal description of property:                                    
                                             
   (Attach copy of deed or other suitable proof of ownership)
      (3)   Address of property:
                                                                            
      (4)   Are you the sole owner of the above property?
                              
   Yes or No
      (5)   If the answer to No. 4 is No, then state the name and address of
the other owner or owners of the property.                                     
                                                               
      (6)   Age of owner last January 1                
   (Attach copy of birth certificate or other suitable proof of age).
      (7)   Age of owner’s spouse last January 1                
(Attach copy of birth certificate or other suitable proof of age).
      (8)   How long has the property been used as a residential homestead?   
                             
      (9)   List the name, approximate age, and the relationship to the owner
of any and all persons residing on the property.                               
                                                         
      (10)   Is any portion of the premises rented or used for commercial
purposes? (If so, explain).
      (11)   If affiant/applicant is not the owner of the property, then state
your name and address, telephone number, and relationship to the owner and
briefly state why the owner is not making this application and signing this
affidavit.
                                                                              
                                                     
                                                                            
                                 Signature of Affiant/Applicant
      SWORN TO AND SUBSCRIBED BEFORE ME, this the                    day of    
        , 20__.
                                                                              
                 
                                 Notary Public in and for Bowie County, Texas
CHAPTER 36:  CITY FINANCES; FUNDS AND FEES
Section
Funds
   
36.01   Depositories
   
36.02   Municipal Court Technology Fund
   
36.03   Special Revenue Funds
   
36.04   General Fund
   
36.05   Assignment, execution and garnishment
Fees
   
36.15   Returned check fees
   
36.16   Rental for use of public streets, alleys, easements, parks and other
public places
FUNDS
§ 36.01  DEPOSITORIES.
   (A)   (1)   Depositories for the city shall be designated by the Mayor.
      (2)   (a)   The Mayor and City Secretary jointly, or the Mayor Pro Tem
and the City Secretary, jointly, shall be and each of them hereby is authorized
to endorse for deposit or negotiation any and all checks, drafts, notes, bills
of exchange and orders for the payment of money, either belonging to or coming
into the possession of this city.  Endorsements for deposit may be by the
written or stamped endorsement of the company without designation of the person
making the endorsement. 
         (b)   This division applies to the following Funds: General Fund,
Revenue Fund, Antirecession Fiscal Assistance Fund, Utilities Reserve Fund, and
the Social Security Fund.
   (B)   The American National Bank, Texarkana, Texas, is designated as a
depository for the Community Development Block Grant Funds.  The Mayor and City
Secretary, or Mayor Pro Tem and City Secretary are authorized to sign checks
for the payment of authorized expenditures connected with the grant.
(Ord. 14-75, passed 8-11-1975; Ord. 13-75, passed 8-14-1975; Ord. passed 8-14-
1975; Ord. 3-77, passed 2-14-1977; Ord. 15-77, passed 5-24-1977;  Ord. 18-78,
passed 4-14-1978; Res. R16-81, passed 11-16-1981)
§ 36.02  MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of Municipal Court Technology Fund.
      (1)   There is hereby created and established a Municipal Court
Technology Fund, here-in-now known as the Fund, pursuant to Tex. Code of
Criminal Procedure, Art. 102.0172.
      (2)   The Fund may be maintained in an interest-bearing account and may
be maintained in the general revenue account.
   (B)   Establishment of amount of the fee and assessment and collection.
      (1)   The fee shall be in the amount of $4.
      (2)   The fee shall be assessed and collected from the defendant upon
conviction for a misdemeanor offense in the Municipal Court as a cost of
court.  A defendant is considered convicted if:
         (a)   A sentence is imposed on the person;
         (b)   The person is placed on community supervision, including
deferred adjudication community supervision; or
         (c)   The court defers final disposition of the person’s case.
      (3)   (1)   The fee shall be collected on conviction for an offense
committed on or after September 1, 1999 (or for convictions on offenses
committed on or after section is adopted).
         (2)   Fee may only be assessed and collected on offenses occurring on
or after September 1, 1999.  The fee may not be assessed or collected
retroactively if Fund is established at a later date than September 1, 1999.
      (4)   The Clerk of the court shall collect the fee and pay the fee to the
Municipal Treasurer or City Secretary of the City of Wake Village, Texas, who
shall deposit the fee into the Municipal Court Technology Fund.
   (C)   Designated use of the Fund and administration.
      (1)   The Fund shall be used only to finance the purchase of
technological enhancements for the Municipal Court of the city, including:
         (a)   Computer systems;
         (b)   Computer networks;
         (c)   Computer hardware;
         (d)   Computer software;
         (e)   Imaging systems;
         (6)   Electronic kiosks;
         (7)   Electronic ticket writers; or
         (8)   Docket management systems.
      (2)   The Fund shall be administered by or under the direction of the
City Council of the city.
   (D)   Expiration and administration of Fund.  In accordance with Tex. Code
of Criminal Procedure, Art. 102.0172, this section and the assessment and
collection of the Municipal Court technology fee expired September 1, 2005. 
The purpose of the use of any funds remaining in the Fund shall continue to be
used and administered as required by this section, and for that purpose this
section remains in effect.
(Ord. 11-99, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 36.03  SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS.
   The name of the Revenue Sharing Fund shall be changed to Special Revenue
Funds and shall incorporate the receipts and disbursements for the Community
Development Block Grant into this Special Revenue Fund account.
(Ord. 4-82, passed 5-10-1982)
§ 36.04  GENERAL FUND.
   A special fund shall be deposited in the Texarkana National Bank of
Texarkana, Texas designated as the City of Wake Village General Fund, which
fund is to be made up of a levy, in an amount to be set by Council from time to
time, on the $100 valuation of taxable property in the city, as such taxes are
collected, for the purpose of carrying on the incidental business of the city.
(Res. 13-44, passed 10-10-1944; Res. 3-46, passed 8-13-1946)
§ 36.05  ASSIGNMENT, EXECUTION AND GARNISHMENT.
   The property, real and personal, belonging to the city shall not be liable
to be sold or appropriated under any writ of execution or cost bill. The funds
belonging to the city, in the hands of any person, firm or corporation shall
not be liable to garnishment, attachment, or sequestration; nor shall the city
be liable to garnishment on account of any debt it may owe or funds or property
it may have on hand or owing to any person. Neither the city nor any of its
officers or agents shall be required to answer any such writ or garnishment on
any account whatsoever. The city shall not be obligated to recognize any
assignment of wages of funds by its employees, agents or contractors.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 10-12-2009)
FEES
§ 36.15  RETURNED CHECK FEES.
   There is hereby adopted by the City Council of the City of Wake Village,
Texas a $25 handling charge, assessed a customer should his or her check for
payment be returned to the city.  If the check is not paid within ten days, the
account may be discontinued and the collection charge will also apply. The
check will be processed through the Bowie County District Attorney’s office and
all collection fees will apply.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 36.16  RENTALS FOR USE OF PUBLIC STREETS, ALLEYS, EASEMENT, PARKS AND OTHER
PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Upon the first day of August of each and every year, every person or
entity, occupying and using the streets, highways, easements, alleys, parks or
other public places, with poles, pipes, lines, wires, cables or other similar
fixtures or equipment shall, as a condition to such further occupancy, pay to
the city annually for this privilege a minimum rental equal to 2% of the gross
receipts received by the person or entity, from its operations conducted within
the corporate limits of the city, for the preceding year, which sums shall be
paid to the city.
   (B)   Each such person or entity shall on August 1 of each year file with
the City Secretary a sworn report showing the gross receipts from its
operations conducted within the city, ending on June 30 of the same year.
   (C)   The City Council may require an audit of the books and records of any
such person or entity, as it deems necessary, and engage the services of any
such engineers, attorneys, accountants or other persons, professionals, or
experts it deems necessary, to determine the correct amount of receipts from
operations, and whether the amounts reported are correct. The cost of any such
persons, professionals and experts shall be borne by the utility, business,
person, or entity being audited.
   (D)   This section shall apply to existing cable television, gas, electric,
telephone, private water or sewer, refuse, or other companies, persons, or
entities, providing utility, quasi utility, franchised or similar services
within the city.  The city may contract with any such person or entity for
different terms for payment to the city of a fee, such as a different rate to
be collected, method of calculation, time for payment or other term, which
contract shall take precedence over the terms of this section.
   (E)   The amounts collected hereunder, or under any contract with any such
person or entity, are not a tax, but is a rental and privilege charge, for the
use of the streets, alleys, parks, easements, and other public places in the
city, and is in addition to any ad valorem, franchise, sales, use, and other
taxes collected by or paid to the city.
(Ord. 14-81, passed 9-21-1981)
CHAPTER 37:  CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Use of city equipment
Purchasing
   
37.15   Purchasing manual
   
37.16   Purchasing limits
Sexual Harassment Policy
   
37.30   General provisions
   
37.31   Sexual harassment defined
   
37.32   Intimate relationships
   
37.33   Complaint procedure
   
37.34   Retaliation
   
37.35   Training
   
37.36   Acknowledgment
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
37.50   Adoption
   
37.51   Purpose and definitions
   
37.52   Identification of red flags
   
37.53   Detecting red flags
   
37.54   Preventing and mitigating identity theft
   
37.55   Program updates
   
37.56   Program administration
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01  USE OF CITY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   City equipment shall be used only in furtherance of the business of
the city and shall not be loaned, rented, or used by developers, contractors,
or any other persons, for any purposes whatever, except in accordance with the
terms of this section.
   (B)   If the city is obligated to perform utility work under prior
agreements to developers, and the equipment is operated by city employees, and
on city payroll and during city working hours, then and in that event, work may
continue to be performed under those prior agreements.
   (C)   The city equipment may also be used, on an infrequent basis, to assist
citizens of the city in the event of an emergency, such as a sewer stoppage, or
a water or gas line breakage, or to perform other work of a non-recurring
nature on an infrequent basis, when the work to be performed is so small such
that a private contractor will not do the work.  This work will not exceed
four-hours’ duration, and will be performed by city employees who are paid by
the city.  The City Council will, from time to time, set hourly rental rates to
be charged citizens for the work to be performed, which the citizens shall pay
to the City Secretary on completion of the work.  No equipment will be used
unless its use is determined  not to interfere with the needs of the city, and
the work to be performed meets the criteria of this section. When the Mayor
deems it necessary, he or she may require the citizen to deposit an amount with
the City Secretary, in advance, sufficient to meet the estimated rental
charges.  No city equipment will be used outside the city limits under these
exceptions, except as approved in advance by the City Council.
(Res. 14-76, passed 10-11-1976)
PURCHASING
§ 37.15  PURCHASING MANUAL.
   (A)   Duties and functions of the Purchasing Agent.  The Purchasing
Department is under the supervision of the Mayor. The general duties of the
Purchasing Agent will be as follows:
      (1)   Observe and enforce the procedures outlined in this manual;
      (2)   Encourage competitive bidding at all times;
      (3)   Conduct the Purchasing Department in such a way that bidders:
         (a)   Will be aware of the fairness of the awards; and
         (b)   Will be encouraged to continue bidding, and will furnish
competition to assure the city of the highest quality merchandise at the lowest
possible cost.
      (4)   Investigate and report any possibilities of collusion among
bidders;
      (5)   Purchase or contract all supplies, materials and contractual
services for the city;
      (6)   Promote good supplier relations;
      (7)   Keep abreast of current developments in the field of purchasing,
prices, market conditions and new products. Investigate and analyze, for the
benefit of the city, research done in the field of purchasing by other
governmental agencies and by private industry;
      (8)   Explore the possibilities of quantity buying to take full advantage
of discounts;
      (9)   The Purchasing Agent has the responsibility for office supplies,
and management of the Purchasing Department.  He or she must maintain
sufficient quantities of materials in stores to satisfy the normal needs of the
city for a reasonable length of time;
      (10)   He or she joins with other governmental agencies in cooperative
purchasing plans when it is in the best interest of the city;
      (11)   The city purchasing agent is responsible for the inspection of
deliveries, although he or she may delegate this responsibility to the head of
the using department.  He or she may subject purchased articles to such tests
as he or she may deem necessary to determine their compliance with
specifications;
      (12)   The objective of the purchasing agent is to purchase at the lowest
possible price and highest quality.  However, a low price paid to an out-of-
town supplier may be outweighed by slow delivery, poor packing and crating,
resulting in having to make long-distance calls, writing letters and the like.
A low price paid for a large quantity may be outweighed by the cost of storage
and handling.  Quality should be considered before attention is given to
price.  Seller’s responsibility should be considered in determining ultimate
cost.  In competitive bidding there are other factors besides the price that
must be taken into consideration:  F.O.B. point, discount, service offered by
seller and delivery date.  The Purchasing Agent reserves the right to accept or
reject all or any part of a bid and accept the offer considered the most
advantageous to the city on items under $200. Items over $200 are referred to
the Mayor for action. Items over $5,000 are presented to the City Council for
action.
   (B)   Duties of the using department.
      (1)   The using department should plan their work so “Rush Orders” and
emergencies will be held to an absolute minimum.  Requests should be forwarded
to the Purchasing Department far enough in advance to allow the seller
sufficient time to obtain prices from their suppliers and complete the request
for quotation.  After the bid closing, a tabulation is made and the bids
evaluated with the assistance of the using department.  If the total amount
exceeds $200 the bid is presented to the Mayor for approval.  If it exceeds
$5,000, it is presented to the City Council for approval.  Considering the
seller’s delivery date, it is possible for 45 days or more to lapse before the
merchandise is actually received.
      (2)   The using department should assist the Purchasing Department by
suggesting names of sellers that have access to their particular item or items
being requested, especially items of a technical nature.  However, the
Purchasing Agent is in no way confined to the list of sellers suggested.  The
Purchasing Department will maintain a listing of vendors classified according
to materials, equipment, supplies and services.  Any responsible firm may be
placed on the lists upon application by telephone, letter or in person.
      (3)   The city is not obligated to purchase equipment or accessories that
are delivered for use on a trial basis.
      (4)   The using department is to prepare specifications for materials
that require engineering or technical background.
      (5)   Specifications should be:
         (a)   As simple as is consistent with exactness, but so specific that
no loophole will allow any bidder to evade any of the provisions and thereby
take advantage of either his or her competitors or the buyer; and
         (b)   Capable of being checked.  Specifications that cannot be checked
are of little value.
      (6)   The using department is to assist the Purchasing Agent in
establishing maximum and minimum quantities for stored items and advise the
Purchasing Agent of any abnormal usage of materials sufficiently in advance
that he or she may maintain an adequate supply.
      (7)   No city employee shall purchase supplies, materials, or equipment
of any kind through the Purchasing Department for personal use.
      (8)   Department heads should not write specifications which are
considered closed (written around one specific brand).  Brand names, catalogue
numbers, and the like, may be submitted as a guide to the seller as to the type
and quality of merchandise desired.  However, the wording “or approved equal”
will always be added as we do not want to discriminate against any seller’s
merchandise. Competition must be kept in mind throughout the writing of
specifications.  Most vendors or sellers are taxpayers and citizens of this
community and must be given equal opportunity to submit a quotation on their
merchandise.
   (C)   Purchasing policy and procedures.
      (1)   Authority.  The position of Purchasing Agent is created by §
31.04 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Minor purchases. The following rules are hereby adopted to regulate
the control and disbursement of certain funds through a petty cash system:
         (a)   The petty cash box will keep a maximum of $200;
         (b)   The City Secretary will be responsible for the disbursement of
the money by using a petty cash voucher;
         (c)   The City Secretary will be the only person allowed to access the
petty cash box at any time.  If the City Secretary is unavailable, it will be
the responsibility of the City Secretary to name a temporary substitute;
         (d)   The maximum disbursement of petty cash will be $20.  Any
purchase over $20 will be made using a properly executed Purchase Order;
         (e)   The City Secretary will be responsible for the balance of funds
in the petty cash box at all times;
         (f)   The City Secretary will assure that there are sufficient funds
in the petty cash box at all times in order to allow a smooth flow of city
purchases;
         (g)   The City Secretary will make random audits of the petty cash box
to assure the fund is being handled properly;
         (h)   No other available cash will be used for petty cash purposes;
         (i)   Any city employee wishing to make a petty cash purchase will
present a petty cash voucher to the City Secretary with their supervisor’s
signature and the amount they wish to receive.  This voucher will be used by
the City Secretary to account for the disposition of funds in the petty cash
box;
         (j)   After the purchase has been made, the purchaser will submit to
the City Secretary the proper receipt and any change back.  This will be done
the same day of the purchase, unless other arrangements are made with the City
Secretary; and
         (k)   Any employee violating any part or parts of this policy will be
subject to disciplinary action.
      (3)   Other purchases.  All purchases of more than $20 require a Purchase
Order and approval by the Purchasing Agent as to availability of funds before
order can be placed.  The Purchasing Agent will take telephone or written bids
on purchases of $20 to $200 and will place the order.  Telephone quotes will be
taken for purchases of more than $200 but less than $5,000.  Then approval to
purchase is obtained from the Mayor.  Purchases of $5,000 or more require
advertising for two weeks, then approval by the City Council.
      (4)   Emergency purchases.  Emergencies occur as a result of breakdown of
equipment which must be kept in operation or stop major programs.  If the
occasion arises during the hours of normal operation of the Purchasing Office,
the Purchasing Agent is to be contacted and he or she may make the purchase or
authorize the department head to do so, assigning a purchase order number at
that time.  A memo explaining the emergency, attached to a confirming
requisition, must be sent to the Purchasing Office no later than the following
working day.  If an emergency arises after normal hours, the department head
will make the purchase and contact the Purchasing Agent the next working
morning for a purchase order number and immediately send in a confirming
requisition with a memo explaining the emergency.
         (a)   Emergencies created through negligence. Emergencies created
through negligence must be avoided; typical examples of these situations are: 
depletion of stock due to negligence, buildings or equipment needing repairs or
painting for some time suddenly becoming emergencies overnight, orders for pipe
and similar materials for projects, most of which must be planned weeks or
months ahead, yet material is requested 12 to 24 hours before it is to be used,
and the like.
         (b)   Pricing.  Most sellers will charge a premium if labor, supplies
or printing are required at once. Better prices can always be obtained if the
material is purchased on bids.  Most sellers will go through the manufacturers
for a price which is always lower than the seller’s wholesale price.
         (c)   Only source purchases. Requisitions for any material or service
costing in excess of $20 which can only be supplied by one source should be
accompanied by a written memo explaining the conditions which make the supplier
an only source. Make sure it is an only source item, for if the memo is
questioned by the auditors or the City Council, the burden of proof will be on
the department head signing the memo. The purchasing Department will attach the
signed copy of this memo to the purchase order copy, to support the Finance
Department’s voucher disbursement of funds. Also, the memo informs the auditors
(annual outside auditors) why bids were not taken.
         1.   It must contain complete information and specifications as the
using departments are the only ones that know exactly what is needed.  All
pertinent information should be given (size, weight, and the like) and the
Purchasing Agent should be referred to certain vendors or sellers that handle
the desired material when that information is available to the department head.
         2.   Realistic delivery dates as to when the material is needed must
be used, because such notations as “RUSH”, “Soon as Possible” and the like do
not tell the Purchasing Agent anything.
         3.   All requisitions will be typed or printed when possible. Purchase
orders will be made exactly as on the original requisition.
      (5)   Time requirements.  Purchases of $20 or more will be bought on a
telephone bid basis and requisitions should be prepared far enough in advance
of the time materials are needed so as not to create an emergency.  This
enables the Purchasing Agent to secure telephone bids and allows for delivery.
         (a)   Requisitions for less than $20 may be purchased by the
department head, using the petty cash system.
         (b)   Requisitions for $20 to $5,000 should be turned over to the
Purchasing Agent a minimum of three days for local purchases and a minimum of
ten days for out-of-city purchases before delivery date.
         (c)   Requisitions for $5,000 and up, requiring prior approval by the
City Council, should be turned over to the Purchasing Agent a minimum of three
weeks before material is needed.
         (d)   Requisitions for more than $5,000 requiring advertising for 15
days and acceptance of bid by the City Council, should be submitted at least
four weeks before material is needed.
      (6)   Processing requisitions.  A copy of the requisition should be
retained by the Requisitioning Department for reference.  After a price is
determined by the regular approved purchasing procedure, the requisition goes
to the Finance Department. 
         (a)   If sufficient funds are available, a Purchase Order is then
made.  The original Purchase Order is mailed to the seller, a copy is returned
to the using department head, and a copy is retained in the Finance
Department.  On receipt of the merchandise, the department must return to
Finance a copy of the Purchase Order, properly signed by the receiving
employee, indicating that the merchandise is received in good order.  Any
damage or shortage must be noted.
         (b)   If sufficient funds are not budgeted for the purchase, the
department head will be notified, and any purchase not covered by budgeted
funds, unexpended, must be approved by the Mayor before the purchase order is
made.  It is the responsibility of the department head to see that budgeted
funds are not overspent.
   (D)   Purchase order.  The Purchase Order is the seller’s authorization to
ship and invoice the materials as specified.  The Purchase Order is a contract
and must be considered as such.  The Purchase Order is designed to expedite and
control buying for the city.
      (1)   Routing of purchase orders.  The Purchase Order set contains the
original and two copies.
         (a)   The original is mailed directly to the vendor or seller.
         (b)   A second copy (yellow) goes to the department head of the using
department and must be retained until the merchandise ordered has been
received.  Upon receipt of the merchandise, this copy is signed by the
receiving employee and returned to the Finance Office.  Any damage, shortage or
difference must be noted.  This copy is designated as a receiving copy that all
may know that the purchase has been received and by whom.
         (c)   A third copy (pink) goes to the Finance Department, that proper
encumbrance may be made on the city’s accounting records, and properly charged
to the correct budgeted account.  When the receiving order reaches the Finance
Department, indicating that the material purchased has been properly received,
a voucher is made and the seller is paid for the materials received.  Packing
slips and freight bills, when these are a part of the transaction, must be sent
to the Finance Office also.
      (2)   Cancelling purchase orders.  Upon request from the department head,
the Purchasing Agent may cancel a purchase order, with the consent of the
seller, provided the merchandise has not been shipped.
   (E)   Invoices.
      (1)   An invoice is an itemized statement of merchandise shipped by the
seller or vendor. Invoices are based upon the Purchase Orders and should
contain the same information.
      (2)   All invoices in the hands of any department head or employee of the
city must be sent immediately to the Finance Department, where they are matched
with the Purchase Order and checked for errors in quantities or extensions.  It
is very urgent that all employees send in all paperwork pertaining to each
transaction. Invoices should be signed, not initialed only.  Personnel are
requested to please not hold paperwork, but forward promptly to keep a more
efficient flow of work being processed.
   (F)   Partial receipts and damaged merchandise.  Of course there will be
times when the seller will ship an incomplete order or when the merchandise
will become damaged during shipment, therefore freight bills and packing slips
are very important.  They should be checked and signed by the individual
receiving the merchandise and turned in promptly to the Finance Office.  Each
shipment received should be carefully checked for damages and shortages.  If
there are any shortages or damages, these should be noted on the freight bill
and the delivery driver must sign noting such damage or shortage.  In the event
of concealed damage, the Purchasing Agent should be notified promptly so that
proper action may be taken.  Any damaged item must be held for inspection by
the freight company.
   (G)   Inventory control. 
      (1)   A system of procedures should be established to protect and control
the city’s property.
      (2)   An inventory record shall be maintained for each item with a value
exceeding $50. At the time an item is received by the city, a prenumbered tag
is permanently affixed to the item, and the number of the tag is entered on an
inventory form which registers a description of the item, the department to
which the item was assigned, and the place where the item is to be used or
stored.
      (3)   Property shall never be relocated or transferred to another
department without notifying the person responsible for maintaining inventory
records.  Whenever a change occurs, an immediate notation of the change shall
be made in the records.
      (4)   A complete physical inventory of all city property shall be
conducted once per year. Discrepancies between inventory records and the
findings of the physical inventory shall be investigated; adjustments then
shall be made to bring the book inventory into line with the actual properties
on hand.
   (H)   Disposition of surplus items.
      (1)   Pieces of equipment and supplies that are no longer needed shall be
disposed of through surplus or scrap.  Many surplus items retain a certain
amount of market value, and their proper disposition can result in economic
financial gains for the city.
      (2)   The following disposition options can be used to dispose of
property:
         (a)   Disposal of the items at a public auction or sale;
         (b)   Other units of government may buy the items;
         (c)   The surplus equipment or supplies can be transferred to another
department, thus avoiding the necessity for purchasing new items; and
         (d)   If there is no other alternative, the surplus items can be sold
to scrap dealers.
      (3)   Following the disposition of a surplus item, the city’s inventory
records shall be modified to reflect the change.
(Res. 11-90, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 37.16  PURCHASING LIMITS.
   (A)   items between $0 and $20 are allowed to be purchased using the Petty
Cash Box.
   (B)   Items between $20.01 and $2,500 are allowed to be purchased by the
Department Head.
   (C)   Items between $2,500.01 and $5,000 are allowed to be purchased by the
Purchasing Agent.
   (D)   Items between $5,000.01 and $10,000 are allowed to be purchased by the
Mayor.
   (E)   Items over $10,000.01 are to be presented to the City Council for
action.
   (F)   This does not propose to change the Purchasing Procedures as outlined
in §
37.15.
(Res. 6-11, passed 7-11-2011)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY
§ 37.30  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The City of Wake Village is committed to taking all reasonable steps to
prevent all forms of discrimination and harassment in the workplace. In
particular, the city strives to maintain a work environment that is free of
sexual harassment, sexual exploitation and intimidation. In addition to other
forms of discrimination, the city maintains a strict policy prohibiting sexual
(i.e., gender-based) harassment, which will not be tolerated from any employee
or supervisor at any level.
(Ord. 13-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 37.31  SEXUAL HARASSMENT DEFINED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SEXUAL HARASSMENT.  Unwanted sexual advances, requests for sexual favors,
or visual, verbal, or physical conduct of a sexual nature or based on a
person’s gender when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made a term or condition of
employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct is used as a basis
for employment decisions affecting an individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably
interfering with an employee’s work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive work environment.
   (B)   The following is a partial list of conduct that could be sexual
harassment:
      (1)   Unwanted sexual advances or propositions;
      (2)   Offering employment benefits in exchange for sexual favors;
      (3)   Making or threatening reprisals after a negative response to sexual
advances;
      (4)   Visual conduct (e.g., leering, making sexual gestures, displaying
of sexually suggestive objects, pictures, cartoons, or posters);
      (5)   Verbal conduct (e.g., making or using derogatory comments, sexually
explicit jokes, comments about an employee’s body or dress);
      (6)   Verbal abuse of a sexual nature, graphic verbal commentary about an
individual’s body, sexually degrading words to describe an individual,
suggestive or obscene letters, notes, invitations or emails; and
      (7)   Physical conduct (e.g., touching, impeding or blocking movement).
   (C)   Sexual harassment on the job is unlawful whether it involves co-worker
harassment or harassment by a supervisor or manager. All employees found to
have been engaged in sexual harassment will be subject to disciplinary action,
including possible termination.
(Ord. 13-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 37.32  INTIMATE RELATIONSHIPS.
   A manager or supervisor engaged in an intimate personal relationship (i.e.,
sexual relationship) with an employee must disclose the nature of the
relationship to upper management. A manager or supervisor engaged in such
relationships is prohibited from serving in a decision-making role for that
employee.
(Ord. 13-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 37.33  COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Employees who believe they have been sexually harassed on the job or
who are aware of the harassment of others must provide a written or verbal
complaint to the City Administrator as soon as possible. The complaint must
include details of the incident(s), names of individuals involved, and the
names of any witnesses. Supervisors and managers must immediately refer all
harassment complaints to the Human Resources Manager.
   (B)   All incidents of sexual harassment that are reported, either verbally
or in writing, will be investigated. The City Administrator or designated
representative will immediately undertake an effective, thorough, and objective
investigation of the harassment allegations. The investigation will be
completed and a determination regarding the alleged harassment will be made and
communicated to the employee(s) who complained and the accused harasser(s). If
a complaint of sexual harassment is substantiated, appropriate disciplinary
action, up to and including termination, will be taken.
   (C)   Complaints and investigations will be conducted with confidentiality
to the greatest extent possible. Anonymity is not guaranteed.
(Ord. 13-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 37.34  RETALIATION.
   City policy prohibits retaliation against any employee, by another employee
or by the city, for using this complaint procedure or for filing, testifying,
assisting, or participating in any manner in any investigation, proceeding, or
hearing conducted by the city or by a federal, state or local enforcement
agency.
(Ord. 13-9, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 37.35  TRAINING.
   All employees and supervisors are required to attend regular sexual
harassment training sessions, as scheduled by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 13-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 37.36  ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
   All employees must sign an acknowledgment indicating that they have attended
sexual harassment training and have reviewed and understand the organization’s
policy on sexual harassment. This form will be placed into the employee’s
personnel file.
   ACKNOWLEDGMENT
   SEXUAL HARASSMENT TRAINING COURSE
   I,________________________do hereby acknowledge that I have attended the
Sexual Harassment Training course as required by the Sexual Harassment Policy
of the City of Wake Village and have reviewed and understand the organizations
policy on sexual harassment.
   Dated this _______day of____________, _______.
                                 ______________________
                                 Employee
(Ord. 13-09, passed 10-12-2009)
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 37.50  ADOPTION.
   The City of Wake Village developed this Identity Theft Prevention Program
(“Program”) pursuant to the Federal Trade Commission’s Red Flags Rule (“Rule”),
which implements § 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of
2003. 16 C. F. R. § 681.2. This Program was developed for the Utility
Department of the City (“Utility”) with oversight and approval of the City
Council. After consideration of the size and complexity of the Utility’s
operations and account systems, and the nature and scope of the Utility’s
activities, the City Council determined that this Program was appropriate for
the city’s Utility, and therefore approved this Program on July 13, 2009.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 37.51  PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Establish an identity theft prevention program.  To establish an
identity theft prevention program designed to detect, prevent and mitigate
identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or an
existing covered account and to provide for continued administration of the
Program in compliance with 16 CFR Part 681 implementing §§ 114 and 315 of the
Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACTA) of 2003.
   (B)   Establishing and fulfilling requirements of the red flags rule.
      (1)   The red flags rule (“rule”) defines IDENTITY THEFT as “fraud
committed using the identifying information of another person” and a RED FLAG
(“red flag”) as a pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
      (2)   Under the rule, every financial institution and creditor is
required to establish an “identity theft prevention program” tailored to its
size, complexity and the nature of its operation. The program must contain
reasonable policies and procedures to:
         (a)   Identify relevant red flags for new and existing covered
accounts and incorporate those red flags into the program;
         (b)   Detect red flags that have been incorporated into the program;
         (c)   Respond appropriately to any red flags that are detected to
prevent and mitigate identity theft; and
         (d)   Ensure the program is updated periodically, to reflect changes
in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the creditor from
identity theft.
   (C)   Red flags rule definitions used in this program. For the purpose of
this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY.  The City of Wake Village, Texas.
      COVERED ACCOUNT.
         (a)   Any account the Utility offers or maintains primarily for
personal, family or household purposes, that involves multiple payments or
transactions; and
         (b)   Any other account the Utility offers or maintains for which
there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and
soundness of the Utility from identity theft.
      CREDITORS.  Includes finance companies, automobile dealers, mortgage
brokers, utility companies, and telecommunications companies. Where non-profit
and government entities defer payment for goods or services, they, too, are to
be considered creditors.
      IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.  Any name or number that may be used, alone or
in conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including: name, address, telephone number, social security number, date of
birth, government issued driver’s license or identification number, alien
registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer
identification number, unique electronic identification number, computer’s
internet protocol address, or routing code.
      PROGRAM.  The Identity Theft Prevention Program for the city.
      PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR.  The City Administrator is the Program
Administrator for the Program.
      UTILITY.  The Utility is the Utility Department for the city.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 37.52  IDENTIFICATION OF RED FLAGS.
   In order to identify relevant red flags, the Utility considers the types of
accounts that it offers and maintains, the methods it provides to open its
accounts, the methods it provides to access its accounts, and its previous
experiences with identity theft. The Utility identifies the following red
flags, in each of the listed categories.
   (A)   Notifications and warnings from consumer credit reporting agencies.
Red flags:
      (1)   Report of fraud accompanying a consumer credit report;
      (2)   Notice or report from a consumer credit agency of a credit freeze
on a customer or applicant;
      (3)   Notice or report from a consumer credit agency of an active duty
alert for an applicant; and
      (4)   Indication from a consumer credit report of activity that is
inconsistent with a customer’s usual pattern or activity, including but not
limited to:
         (a)   Recent and significant increase in volume of inquiries;
         (b)   Unusual number of recent credit applications;
         (c)   A material change in use of credit; and
         (d)   Accounts closed for cause or abuse.
   (B)   Suspicious documents.  Red flags:
      (1)   Identification document or card that appears to be forged, altered
or inauthentic;
      (2)   Identification document or card on which a person’s photograph or
physical description is not consistent with the person presenting the document;
      (3)   Other document with information that is not consistent with
existing customer information (such as if a person’s signature on a check
appears forged); and
      (4)   Application for service that appears to have been altered or
forged.
   (C)   Suspicious personal identifying information.  Red flags:
      (1)   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with other
information the customer provides (example: inconsistent birth dates, lack of
correlation between Social Security number range and date of birth);
      (2)   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with other
sources of information (for instance, Social Security number or an address not
matching an address on a credit report);
      (3)   Identifying information presented that is the same as information
shown on other applications that were found to be fraudulent;
      (4)   Identifying information presented that is consistent with
fraudulent activity (such as an invalid phone number or fictitious billing
address);
      (5)   Social Security number presented that is the same as one given by
another customer;
      (6)   An address or phone number presented that is the same as that of
another person;
      (7)   A person fails to provide complete personal identifying information
on an application when reminded to do so (however, by law social security
numbers must not be required) or an applicant cannot provide information
requested beyond what could commonly be found in a purse or wallet; and
      (8)   A person’s identifying information is not consistent with the
information that is on file for the customer.
   (D)   Suspicious account activity or unusual use of account.  Red flags:
      (1)   Change of address for an account followed by a request to change
the account holder’s name;
      (2)   Payments stop on an otherwise consistently up-to-date account;
      (3)   Account used in a way that is not consistent with prior use
(example: very high activity);
      (4)   Mail sent to the account holder is repeatedly returned as
undeliverable;
      (5)   Notice to the Utility that a customer is not receiving mail sent by
the Utility;
      (6)   Notice to the Utility that an account has unauthorized activity;
      (7)   Breach in the Utility’s computer system security; and
      (8)   Unauthorized access to or use of customer account information.
   (E)   Alerts from others. Red flag: notice to the Utility from a customer,
identity theft victim, fraud detection service, law enforcement or other person
that it has opened or is maintaining a fraudulent account for a person engaged
in identity theft.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 37.53  DETECTING RED FLAGS.
   (A)   New accounts. In order to detect any of the red flags identified above
associated with the opening of a new account, Utility personnel will take the
following steps to obtain and verify the identity of the person opening the
account. Detect:
      (1)   Require certain identifying information such as name, date of
birth, residential or business address, principal place of business for an
entity, driver’s license or other identification;
      (2)   Verify the customer’s identity (for instance, review a driver’s
license or other identification card);
      (3)   Review documentation showing the existence of a business entity;
      (4)   Request additional documentation to establish identity; and
      (5)   Independently contact the customer or business.
   (B)   Existing accounts.  In order to detect any of the red flags identified
above for an existing account, Utility personnel will take the following steps
to monitor transactions with an account. Detect:
      (1)   Verify the identification of customers if they request information
(in person, via telephone, via facsimile, via email);
      (2)   Verify the validity of requests to close accounts or change billing
addresses; and
      (3)   Verify changes in banking information given for billing and payment
purposes.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 37.54  PREVENTING AND MITIGATING IDENTITY THEFT.
   In the event Utility personnel detect any identified red flags, such
personnel shall take one or more of the following steps, depending on the
degree of risk posed by the red flag.
   (A)   Prevent and mitigate.
      (1)   Continue to monitor an account for evidence of identity theft;
      (2)   Contact the customer, sometimes through multiple methods;
      (3)   Change any passwords or other security devices that permit access
to accounts;
      (4)   Not open a new account;
      (5)   Close an existing account;
      (6)   Do not close the account, but monitor or contact authorities;
      (7)   Reopen an account with a new number;
      (8)   Notify the Program Administrator for determination of the
appropriate step(s) to take;
      (9)   Notify law enforcement; or
      (10)   Determine that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
   (B)   Protect customer identifying information.  In order to further prevent
the likelihood of identity theft occurring with respect to Utility accounts,
the Utility will take the following steps with respect to its internal
operating procedures to protect customer identifying information:
      (1)   Ensure that its website is secure or provide clear notice that the
website is not secure;
      (2)   Where and when allowed, ensure complete and secure destruction of
paper documents and computer files containing customer information;
      (3)   Ensure that office computers are password protected and that
computer screens lock after a set period of time;
      (4)   Change passwords on office computers on a regular basis;
      (5)   Ensure all computers are backed up properly and any backup
information is secured;
      (6)   Keep offices clear of papers containing customer information;
      (7)   Request only the last four digits of social security numbers (if
any);
      (8)   Ensure computer virus protection is up to date; and
      (9)   Require and keep only the kinds of customer information that are
necessary for utility purposes.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 37.55  PROGRAM UPDATES.
   This Program will be periodically reviewed and updated to reflect changes in
risks to customers and the soundness of the Utility from identity theft. At
least annually, the Program Administrator will consider the Utility’s
experiences with identity theft situation, changes in identity theft methods,
changes in identity theft detection and prevention methods, changes in types of
accounts the Utility maintains and changes in the Utility’s business
arrangements with other entities, consult with law enforcement authorities, and
consult with other city personnel. After considering these factors, the Program
Administrator will determine whether changes to the Program, including the
listing of red flags, are warranted. If warranted, the Program Administrator
will update the Program or present the City Council with his or her recommended
changes and the City Council will make a determination of whether to accept,
modify or reject those changes to the Program.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 35.56  PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Oversight.  Responsibility for developing, implementing and updating
this Program lies with an Identity Theft Committee for the Utility. The
Committee is headed by a program administrator who may be the head of the
Utility or his or her appointee. Two or more other individuals appointed by the
head of the Utility or the Program Administrator comprise the remainder of the
committee membership. The Program Administrator will be responsible for the
Program administration, for ensuring appropriate training of Utility staff on
the Program, for reviewing any staff reports regarding the detection of red
flags and the steps for preventing and mitigating identity theft, determining
which steps of prevention and mitigation should be taken in particular
circumstances and considering periodic changes to the Program.
   (B)   Staff training and reports.
      (1)   Initially, all Utility staff shall be trained either by or under
the direction of the Program Administrator in the detection of red flags, and
the responsive steps to be taken when a red flag is detected. Thereafter, all
Utility staff shall undergo update training not less than annually.
Additionally, all new Utility employees shall undergo training.
      (2)   All Utility staff shall submit reports monthly concerning the
Utility’s compliance with the program, the training that has been given and the
effectiveness of the policies and procedures in addressing the risk of identity
theft, including recommendations for changes to the Program. While incidents of
identity theft are to be reported immediately to the Program Administrator, the
monthly reports shall contain a recap of the incident and include the steps
taken to assist with resolution of the incident.
   (C)   Service provider arrangements.  In the event the Utility engages a
service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more
accounts, including but not limited to franchise utility providers, the Utility
will take the following steps to ensure the service provider performs its
activity in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures designed to
detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft.
      (1)   Require, by contract or contract amendment, that service providers
have such policies and procedures in place; and
      (2)   Require, by contract or contract amendment, that service providers
review the Utility’s Program and report any red flags to the Program
Administrator.
   (D)   Specific Program elements and confidentiality.  For the effectiveness
of identity theft prevention programs, the red flag rule envisions a degree of
confidentiality regarding the Utility’s specific practices relating to identity
theft detection, prevention and mitigation. Therefore, under this Program,
knowledge of such specific practices are to be limited to the Identity Theft
Committee and those employees who need to know them for purposes of preventing
identity theft. Because this Program is to be adopted by a public body and thus
publicly available, it would be counterproductive to list these specific
practices here. Therefore, only the Program’s general red flag detection,
implementation and prevention practices are listed in this document.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 7-13-2009)
CHAPTER 38:  PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual, adopted
   
38.02   Cafeteria plan
   
38.03   Notification of property damage, personal injury, death
   
38.04   Volunteer employment and personnel, adopted
   
38.05   Per diem meals and mileage compensation
   
38.06   Drug abuse policy adopted
   
38.07   Affirmative action plan adopted
   
38.08   Unemployment benefits; method of payment
   
38.09   Posting of inappropriate or unprofessional material
   
38.10   Longevity pay policy
Police Procedures
   
38.20   Racial profiling policy adopted
   
38.21   Holiday pay
Health Benefits
   
38.35   Health benefits coverage for city retirees
   
38.36   Temporary employees
   
38.37   Payment of health premiums
Texas Municipal Retirement System (TMRS)
   
38.50   Participation in TMRS
   
38.51   Supplemental Benefits Fund
   
38.52   Supplemental Death Benefits Fund
   
38.53   Texas Statewide Emergency Services Personnel Retirement System
Cross-reference:
   Authorizations to execute contracts, agreements with respect to personnel
policies, see also
TSO II of this code of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01  PERSONNEL POLICY AND PROCEDURES MANUAL, ADOPTED.
   The City Personnel Policy and Procedures Manual is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein.  Copies are available through city
offices.
(Res. 5-82, passed 3-8-1982; Res. 12-90, passed 12-20-1990; Res. 7-91, passed
7-8-1991; Res. 8-92, passed 6-8-1992; Res. 12-92, passed 11-2-1992; Res. 13-92,
passed 12-14-1992; Res. 12-95, passed 9-11-1995; Ord. 11-97, passed 6-9-1997;
Ord. 15-11, passed 12-12-2011; Res. 6-12, passed 2-13-2012; Res. 7-12, passed
2-13-2012; Ord. 13-12, passed 11-12-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 11-12-2012; Res.
17-13, passed 8-12-2013; Res. 18-13, passed 8-12-2013; Res. 19-13, passed 8-12-
2013; Ord. 1-14, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 38.02  CAFETERIA PLAN.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to execute a Cafeteria Plan document
under I.R.C. § 125.
   (B)   This document will provide for pretaxing accident and health insurance
premiums only.
(Res. 7-88, passed 4-11-1988)
§ 38.03  NOTIFICATION OF PROPERTY DAMAGE, PERSONAL INJURY, DEATH.
   (A)   The City of Wake Village, Texas, shall never be liable for any claim
for property damage or for personal injury, whether the personal injury results
in death or not, unless the person damaged or injured, or someone in his or her
behalf, or in the event the injury results in death, the person or persons who
may have a cause of action under the law by reason of the death or injury,
shall, within 60 days or within six months for good cause shown from the date
the damage or injury was received, give notice in writing to the Mayor and City
Council of the following facts:
      (1)   The date and time when the injury occurred and the place where the
injured person or property was at the time when the injury was received;
      (2)   The nature of the damage or injury sustained;
      (3)   The apparent extent of the damage or injury sustained;
      (4)   A specific and detailed statement of how and under what
circumstances the damage or injury occurred;
      (5)   The amount for which each claimant will settle;
      (6)   The actual place of residence of each claimant by street, number,
city, and state on the date the claim is presented;
      (7)   In the case of personal injury or death, the names and addresses of
all persons who, according to the knowledge or information of the claimant,
witnessed the happening of the injury or any part thereof and the names of the
doctors, if any, to whose care the injured person is committed; and
      (8)   In the case of property damage, the location of the damaged
property at the time the claim was submitted, along with the names and
addresses of all persons who witnessed the happening of the damage or any part
thereof.
   (B)   No suit of any nature whatsoever shall be instituted or maintained
against the City of Wake Village, Texas, unless the plaintiff therein shall
aver and prove that, previous to the filing of the original petition, the
plaintiff applied to the City Council for redress, satisfaction, compensation,
or relief, as the case may be, and that the same was by vote of the City
Council refused.
   (C)   All notices required by this section shall be effectuated by serving
them upon the City Secretary at the following location:  624 Burma Road, Wake
Village, Texas, and all such notices shall be effective only when actually
received in the office of the person named above.
   (D)   Neither the Mayor, a City Council member, or any other officer or
employee of the city shall have the authority to waive any of the provisions of
this section.
   (E)   The written notice required under this section shall be sworn to by
the person claiming the damage or injuries or by someone authorized by him or
her to do so on his or her behalf. Failure to swear to the notice as  required
herein shall not render the notice fatally defective, but failure to so verify
the notice may be considered by the City Council as a factor relating to the
truth of the allegations and to the weight to be given to the allegations
contained therein.
(Ord. 8-86, passed 4-28-1986)
§ 38.04  VOLUNTEER EMPLOYMENT AND PERSONNEL, ADOPTED.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts by reference the rules and regulations attached
to Resolution R12-86 as establishing the policies of the city to be followed by
the city and its volunteer employees, in the course of their employment with
the city.
   (B)   The rules and regulations do not created vested rights in any
employee, person, or entity, and do not create continued expectation of
employment for any employee or person, whether currently employed or not, and
these rules and regulations may be changed from time to time, as deemed
necessary by the City Council.
(Res. R12-86, passed 10-13-1986; Ord. 8-98, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 38.05  PER DIEM MEALS AND MILEAGE COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Vehicle regulations.
      (1)   A mileage rate equal to the Internal Revenue Service allowable rate
per mile shall be paid to members of the City Council and employees of the city
who drive their personal vehicles to out-of-town functions which are related to
city business.
      (2)   The city’s gasoline credit cards will not be used to purchase
gasoline for private vehicles.
   (B)   Meals.
      (1)   A per diem rate of $40 for meals shall be allowed to members of the
City Council and employees of the city who attend out-of-town functions which
are related to city business.
      (2)   Each person traveling to out-of-town functions shall be required to
return to the City Treasurer any hotel receipts for payment or reimbursement.
(Res. R6-80, passed 5-12-1980; Res. R7-80, passed 6-9-1980; Res. 9-92, passed
7-13-1992; Res. 5-98, passed 9-8-1998; Res. 8-03, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 38.06  DRUG ABUSE POLICY ADOPTED.
   The drug abuse policy attached to Resolution 8-91 is hereby adopted by
reference, as if set out in full herein, and set forth as the city’s official
policy regarding drug and substance abuse.
(Res. 8-91, passed 7-8-1991)
§ 38.07  AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The affirmative action plan attached to the resolution establishing this
section is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
(Res. 2-76, passed 1-12-1976; Res. R6-82, passed 3-8-1982)
§ 38.08  UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS; METHOD OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   The city shall provide federally approved unemployment benefits to its
employees of the city effective January 1, 1978, as required by the Federal
Unemployment Tax Act, being 26 U.S.C. §§ 3301 et seq.
   (B)   The city shall utilize the taxation method of providing unemployment
benefits by paying unemployment taxes as set by the State of Texas.
   (C)   The City Secretary is directed to register with the Texas Employment
Commission and to initiate a program that complies with the Federal
Unemployment Tax Act.
(Res. passed 11-14-1977)
§ 38.09  POSTING OF INAPPROPRIATE OR UNPROFESSIONAL MATERIAL.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines
prohibiting the use of electronic media which brings discredit or embarrassment
to the employee or agency.
   (B)   Effective immediately, no city employee will post for public, private,
or restricted viewing, any image, document, or other media format on any public
or private electronic internet or intranet hosted site that may tend to bring
either the  employee or the city into disrepute. Any currently posted material
that may tend to bring either the employee or the city into disrepute will
immediately be removed from the public, private, or restricted electronic
internet or intranet hosted site. No posting shall be made that has the
potential to be in any negative manner against any employee of the city, or the
city itself. All city employees are further prohibited from posting any
information referring to their affiliation, or inferred affiliation with the
city, without the express consent of a supervisor. This policy is enacted to
protect both the employee and the city from unintended negative consequences
associated with the subjective nature of internet-based comments intended to be
taken in jest, or in factual subjective commentaries. All city employees shall
be held accountable for their actions, conduct, and speech when their behaviors
conflict with city policies. Employees who cause undue embarrassment, damage
the reputation of the city, and/or erode the public’s confidence in the city
shall be deemed to have violated this policy.
   (C)   Any employee found to be in violation of the policy will be subject to
disciplinary action in accordance with the city’s personnel policy.
(Ord. 1-10, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 38.10  LONGEVITY PAY POLICY.
   (A)   A longevity pay policy is hereby established beginning January 1,
2012.
   (B)   Every full time paid employee (except for Department Heads) will
receive longevity pay as a lump sum payment on the Friday before Thanksgiving
Day, equal to their biweekly paycheck as follows.
      (1)   The amount shall be based upon the number of years the employee has
worked.
      (2)   Beginning year one, the amount shall be equal to 20% of the
biweekly paycheck.
      (3)   All subsequent years the amount shall be based upon an additional
20% up to a maximum of 100% of the biweekly paycheck.
      (4)    The number of years shall be determined by the number of years
worked in whole year increments by December 31, of that current year.
(Res. 16-11, passed 12-12-2011)
POLICE PROCEDURES
§ 38.20  RACIAL PROFILING POLICY ADOPTED.
   The racial profiling policy attached as Exhibit A to Ordinance 02-02 is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein, as an amendment and
addition to the Police Procedure section of the Personnel/Police Procedure
Manual.  Copies are available through city offices.
(Ord. 02-02, passed 2-12-2002)
§ 38.21  HOLIDAY PAY.
   Police Department employees shall be compensated for holidays in accordance
with Chapter 4, Section 1, Paragraph C of the Personnel Policy and Procedures
Manual adopted by Resolution 5-82 in §
38.01.
(Res. 4-90, passed 3-12-1990)
HEALTH BENEFITS
§ 38.35  HEALTH BENEFITS COVERAGE FOR CITY RETIREES.
   (A)   The city hereby elects to provide health benefits coverage to its
retirees through Texas Municipal League Group Benefits Risk Pool under the
Pool’s interlocal agreement.
   (B)   The city hereby adopts the following definition of retiree for the
purpose of this section:
      RETIREE.  Having been employed and participated in the health insurance
plan for ten years by the city, being 62 years of age, and is eligible for
benefits.
   (C)   The city hereby adopts the following benefits plans to be provided to
its retirees through the Texas Municipal Group League Benefits Risk Pool:  The
medical plan adopted for retirees and their dependents and Retiree Life.
   (D)   The interlocal agreement in effect between the City of Wake Village
and the Texas Municipal League Group Benefits Risk Pool provides that the Board
of Trustees may adopt rules and regulations. The rules and regulations of the
Texas Municipal League Group Benefits Risk Pool allow the participating member
entity to provide retiree medical coverage at the same contribution as charged
to active employees or to select a contribution level which is 150% of the
active employee contribution. The City of Wake Village elects to have the
retiree medical contribution be 150% of the active employee contribution for as
long as the TML-GBRP offers this rate structure for retiree medical coverage. 
The City of Wake Village elects to pay 100% of the employee only medical
coverage for retirees until the retiree becomes eligible for Medicare or
reaches age 65.  Other coverages will be as established annually by the Texas
Municipal Group Benefits Risk Pool Board of Trustees.
   (E)   This section will only apply to individuals retiring in good standing
after its effective date. For individuals retiring after the effective date of
this section to qualify, they must enroll for this coverage within 30 days of
their retirement.
   (F)   This section may be repealed or modified at any time, but will remain
in effect for any employee retiring while it is in effect.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 38.36  TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The personnel policy of the city is amended insofar as the terms of
this section are inconsistent with the personnel policy.
   (B)   The City Council hereby approves the right of temporary employees who
work as much as 30 hours per week to enroll for health and accident insurance
coverage under the group plan(s) available to the regular city employees, but
without the city’s participation in the payment of the premium(s).
(Ord. 6-88, passed 1-25-1988)
§ 38.37  PAYMENT OF HEALTH PREMIUMS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall be authorized to withhold the premiums for
disability insurances from employees’ checks on a weekly basis, then make
payment to Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Company on a monthly basis.
   (B)   The city will pay health coverage programs for all eligible full-time
employees, effective with the first premium due for the period beginning July
15, 1984.
(Res. 8-79, passed 6-14-1979; Res. R10-84, passed 6-11-1984)
TEXAS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM (TMRS)
§ 38.50  PARTICIPATION IN TMRS.
   (A)   Election to participate.  The City Council hereby exercises its option
and elects to have the city and all of the employees of all departments, except
for the Fire Department, now existing or hereafter established participate in
the Texas Municipal Retirement System as provided in Tex. Gov’t Code §§ 851.001
et seq., as amended; and all of the benefits and obligations of the System are
hereby accepted.
   (B)   Further regulations.  Ordinances effecting the plan for participation
in the TMRS, employee contributions, updated service credits, increases in
benefits and retirement annuities and any other applicable legislation of the
city and state are adopted by reference into this code of ordinances as if
fully set forth herein and shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Secretary.
(Ord. 3-49, passed 9-12-1949; Ord. 6-60, passed 10-10-1960; Ord. 5-64, passed
8-11-1964; Ord. 10-69, passed 9-10-1969; Ord. 18-71, passed 9-8-1971; Ord. 16-
77, passed 8-8-1977; Ord. 11-81, passed 9-14-1981; Ord. 12-82, passed 7-12-
1982; Ord. 30-82, passed 12-13-1982; Ord. 28-83, passed 10-24-1983; Ord. 23-84,
passed 11-12-1984; Ord. 21-85, passed 10-14-1985; Ord. 24-86, passed 10-13-
1986; Ord. 21-87, passed 9-14-1987; Ord. 22-87, passed 9-14-1987; Ord. 20-88,
passed 9-12-1988; Ord. 13-89, passed 8-28-1989; Ord. 8-90, passed 8-13-1990;
Ord. 15-91, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 16-91, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 23-94, passed 9-
12-1994; Ord. 02-11, passed 2-14-2011)
§ 38.51  SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS FUND.
   (A)   The city by its City Council elects to have the employees of all
participating departments of the city participate in and be covered by the
Supplemental Benefits Fund of the TMRS, as provided by Chapter 312, Acts
Regular Session, 56th Legislature; and all the benefits and obligations of
participation in that Fund are hereby accepted by the city as to those
employees.
   (B)   Each person who becomes an employee of any participating department on
or after the effective  date of his or her employment shall be covered into the
Supplemental Benefits Fund of the System.  The city may in the future refuse to
add new departments or new employees to the Fund, but shall never discontinue
as to any members who are covered into the Fund.
   (C)   Effective date of this section is January 1, 1978.
(Ord. 14-77, passed 8-1-1977)
§ 38.52  SUPPLEMENTAL DEATH BENEFITS FUND.
   The city hereby elects to participate in the Supplemental Death Benefits
Fund of the TMRS beginning with the date the Fund shall be made operational,
for the purpose of providing in-service death benefits in the amounts and on
the terms provided for in § XIX of the TMRS Act (Art. 6243h, Vernon’s Tex. Civ.
Stats, as amended) for each of the city’s employees who are members of the
System.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 38.53  TEXAS STATEWIDE EMERGENCY SERVICES PERSONNEL RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Election to participate in the Texas Statewide Emergency Service
Personnel Retirement System through the Fire Fighter’s Pension Commission in
Austin, Texas is hereby authorized by the City Council of the city.
   (B)   Participation in the Retirement System begins June 1, 2006.
(Res. 9-06, passed 5-8-2006)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   CITY UTILITIES
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   ELECTRICITY REGULATIONS
      
53.   GAS SERVICE REGULATIONS
      
54.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
55.   SEWER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50:  CITY UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Organization of utilities
   
50.02   Furnishing of water, sewer, or other city services outside the city
limits to cease
Cross-reference:
   Sewer tap fees, see §
55.02
   Water tap fees, see §
54.02
§ 50.01  ORGANIZATION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Effective May 1, 1969, the Utility Superintendent of the city
will operate the Water Pumping and Distribution System, the Sewage Collection
and Disposal System and the Garbage and Waste Disposal System.
      (2)   The Mayor and the City Secretary are authorized to contract with
Southwestern Electric Power Company for the collection of, and deposit in a
bank designated by Southwestern, any accounts due to Southwestern by residents
of the city, provided, however, that city assumes no liability to Southwestern
for nonpayment of bills or in any other manner except for the safekeeping and
accounting for such funds as may be collected.  The City Secretary may
authorize any employee of the city to receive and receipt for such funds of
Southwestern as may be collected and to prepare and have deposited such funds
as are in his or her care in the usual course of business.  For this service
city is to receive a sum as provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City
Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time, per month from
Southwestern.
   (B)   From and after May 1, 1969 the City Secretary is authorized to collect
from all residents requiring the utility services of the city a deposit to
secure prompt payment of bills for such services in the sum of as provided by a
fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from
time to time.
(Ord. 4-59, passed 4-9-1969)
§ 50.02  FURNISHING OF WATER, SEWER, OR OTHER CITY SERVICES OUTSIDE THE CITY
LIMITS TO CEASE.
   (A)   The expressed policy of the City Council is not to provide any
additional city-furnished services to include water or sewer services outside
of the city limits, and to terminate those services being furnished in a prompt
and equitable manner.  This section shall not apply to the firefighting or
police services provided outside of the city, pursuant to inter-city and county
agreements presently existing.
   (B)   The City Council has expressly agreed with the City of Texarkana,
Texas to provide water and sewer services to the Belmont Addition and to the K-
Mart Store, both within the city limits of the City of Texarkana, Texas, and
will continue to do so under those agreements. Those customers are specifically
excepted from the terms and conditions of this section, but remain subject to
all other ordinances of the City of Wake Village, Texas concerned with the
supply of utility and quasi-utility services.
   (C)   In the case of any existing services being rendered, or the agreement
by the City Council to a variance to this section, the city will require
inspections by the City Inspector of all plumbing, electrical and other
services, and the issuance of permits, and shall require as a further condition
that all of the structures and improvements adhere to the city codes and
ordinances in all respects, and continue to adhere to such codes and
ordinances, unless additional variances are granted.
   (D)   All water and sewer customers located outside of the city limits are
to be notified of the passage of this section, and of its contents, by
certified mail, return receipt requested, by the City Secretary, but shall be
bound by the terms of this section from the date of its passage.
   (E)   Any agreements, customs, understandings, contracts, or other methods
under which water or sewer services are being furnished outside of the city
limits or have been furnished, or are proposed to be furnished, shall terminate
on the following:
      (1)   Any change in ownership, rental, lease, or occupancy of any
premises served;
      (2)   Any change in use of the premises served, whether the change in use
increases, decreases or does not affect the amount of water served;
      (3)   Any failure of the property owner or occupier to adhere to the
terms of this section, or voluntarily to allow the enforcement of the terms of
this section;
      (4)   Failure to pay any bills, assessments, or other amounts due the
City of Wake Village for any reason;
      (5)   Any use of water or sewer services in connection with, attributable
to, in support of, or that otherwise contributes to the violation of any
ordinance, resolution, law, statute, or other requirement of the City of Wake
Village, Texas, the State of Texas, or the United States, on the premises,
whether enforceable by the city or not;
      (6)   Any nuisance, misuse of water or sewer, unsanitary conditions,
illegal activities or excess use of water; or
      (7)   Any other act or omission under which city customers’ services are
terminated; and all meters, taps, hookups and other methods of obtaining
services shall be removed in accordance with the ordinances regarding the
termination of services within the city.
   (F)   It is the further expressed policy that the provision of water and
sewer services outside of the city limits is a privilege and had been in the
past extended to residences and to businesses providing beneficial,
advantageous, and necessary services and goods, who cannot otherwise obtain
satisfactory water and sewer services or be annexed to the City of Wake
Village.
   (G)   The provision of such services shall be reviewed on a continual basis,
and may be terminated for violations of this section and policy on notice to
the customer, with a provision for a reasonable time to obtain alternate
sources of water or sewer services, not to exceed 30 days.
   (H)   Rates for all such water and sewer services provided outside of the
city shall be set by resolution of the City Council as for rates within the
city, and may differ from the in-city rates.
(Ord. 13-81, passed 9-14-1981)
CHAPTER 51:  SOLID WASTE
Section
General Regulations
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Certificate of need
   
51.03   Requirement to use city services
   
51.04   Duties of contractor
   
51.05   Frequency of collection
   
51.06   Changes in contract require Council approval
   
51.07   Placement of waste by citizens
Rates and Charges
   
51.15   Rates, adopted
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Specific waste hauling and collection contracts, see
TSO II
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY.  The City of Wake Village, Texas.
   CONTRACTOR(S).  Persons or entities contracting to handle refuse under this
subchapter and granted a contract by the city to do so.
   HANDLING.  All collection, hauling, and disposal of garbage, refuse, and
trash.
   REFUSE.  All garbage, refuse, and trash.
(Ord. 7-85, passed 4-8-1985)
§ 51.02  CERTIFICATE OF NEED.
   (A)   No person or entity shall operate a business or system to handle
refuse from or in the city, except after applying to the City Council and
receiving a certificate of need and proof that the city’s requirements for
refuse handling are not being reasonably met by current ordinances, contracts,
and approved contractors.
   (B)   As a prerequisite to applying for a certificate of need and being
granted a contract or right to handle refuse, each such proposed contractor
will submit certified financial statements showing assets and resources,
financial and non-financial, sufficient to satisfy the City Council that the
proposed contractor is able to perform the contract; proof of compliance with
all federal and state laws and regulations; certificates of proposed services
and rates; a statement of experience in handling refuse; certificates of
workers’ compensation insurance and public liability insurance with minimum
limits of as provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary,
adopted by the City Council from time to time, for personal injury and as
provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the
City Council from time to time, for property damage; agreement to hold the city
harmless from any liability for operations of the contractor; agreement to
provide such services as are ordered by the city; and sufficient proof that the
refuse handling needs of the city are not being met by the current contractor
(s).
(Ord. 7-85, passed 4-8-1985)
§ 51.03  REQUIREMENT TO USE CITY SERVICES.
   Every household, business, apartment complex, governmental institution, and
other person or entity generating refuse in the city is required to utilize the
services provided and pay the rates charged under this subchapter as it may be
amended.  No person or entity will bring or allow the placing of refuse on
their premises for collection unless that refuse is generated on those
premises.  This provision does not prohibit a person or entity from handling
refuse generated by that person or entity to a state approved landfill or
disposal site.
(Ord. 7-85, passed 4-8-1985)
§ 51.04  DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR.
   (A)   The contractor(s) approved hereunder will handle all refuse generated
and left for collection at residences, businesses, or other premises within the
boundaries of the City of Wake Village, Texas and shall furnish such labor,
materials, equipment, and supplies as necessary for the performance of these
duties.  The contractor(s) will collect all such refuse from each place,
whether the same is separated or combined in containers, and all handling of
refuse will be conducted in a good, clean, thorough, and workmanlike manner.
   (B)   The contractor(s) will dispose of all collected refuse at its own
expense and pay all costs incurred or attributable to the handling of the
refuse, except as is specifically noted in this subchapter.
(Ord. 7-85, passed 4-8-1985)
§ 51.05  FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   The contractor(s) will collect all refuse at a frequency and times of day as
specified by the city, with equipment sufficient to handle the refuse, and to
handle any emergencies which may arise.  Contractor(s) will have sufficient
employees available at reasonable times to respond to all reasonable requests
by the city pertaining to the handling of refuse.
(Ord. 7-85, passed 4-8-1985)
§ 51.06  CHANGES IN CONTRACT REQUIRE COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   The contractor(s) selected pursuant to this subchapter may not assign, sell,
convey, sublet or otherwise transfer to any other person or entity, any of its
obligations hereunder or its interest in the terms of any contract with the
city without the express written consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 7-85, passed 4-8-1985)
§ 51.07  PLACEMENT OF WASTE BY CITIZENS.
    All refuse will be placed at curbside by customers on collection days,
except for those using dumpster, roll-off containers provided by the contractor
(s), or when agreed to by the contractor(s).  All loose or non-containerized
refuse will be placed in refuse bags selected and distributed by the city, or
bags of equal or better specifications, or demisters or roll-off containers
provided by the contractor(s).
(Ord. 7-85, passed 4-8-1985)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.15  RATES, ADOPTED.
   The rates for refuse collection services are as set forth in Exhibit A
attached to Ordinance 3-81, as amended, and are hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in full herein.  Copies are available through city offices.
(Ord. 3-81, passed 4-13-1981; Ord. 20-84, passed 10-8-1984; Ord. 17-87, passed
7-13-1987; Res. 5-90, passed 2-12-1990)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person or entity should violate any term of §§
51.01 though
51.07, that person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and will be punishable by
the Municipal Court of Wake Village, Texas, as it may direct, in an amount not
to exceed $1,000.  Each act or omission, and each day of violation shall
constitute a separate offense.  This punitive provision will not apply to
contractual violations by the contractor(s).
(Ord. 7-85, passed 4-8-1985)
CHAPTER 52:  ELECTRICITY REGULATIONS
Section
Miscellaneous
   
52.01   Radio frequency meter installation
   
52.02   Electrical code, adopted
Rates
   
52.15   Rates and tariffs, adopted
Outdoor Lighting
   
52.30   Municipal street lighting, mercury vapor
   
52.31   Public highway lighting service
   
52.32   Area lighting system, metal halide, and/or high-pressure sodium
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 52.01  RADIO FREQUENCY METER INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The Radio Frequency Meter Installation Rider proposed by AEP
Southwestern Electric Power Company (AEP-SWEPCO), and approved by the Public
Utility Commission (Commission), shall be approved by the city.
   (B)   The Radio Frequency Meter Installation Rider approved by the
Commission is hereby approved and shall apply effective October 14, 2003.  AEP-
SWEPCO shall be authorized to thereafter render radio frequency meter
installation service and to collect charges from its customers for that
installation within the corporate limits of the city until such time as the
rider may be changed, modified, amended, or withdrawn, with the approval of the
City Council.
   (C)   The action of the City Council of the city enacting this section
constitutes, on the date of its final passage, a final determination of rate
for radio frequency meter installations by AEP-SWEPCO within the city in
accordance with § 33.001 of the Public Utilities Regulatory Act, being Tex.
Utilities Code § 33.001.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 52.02  ELECTRICAL CODE, ADOPTED.
   The Electrical Ordinance of the City of Wake Village, Texas, as amended, is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.  Copies are available
through city offices.
(Ord. 1-64, passed 1-14-1964; Ord. 17-77, passed 8-8-1977; Ord. 16-82, passed
9-13-1982; Ord. 9-85, passed 4-8-1985)
RATES
§ 52.15  RATES AND TARIFFS, ADOPTED.
   The rates filed by SWEPCO with its statement of intent to increase rates
hereby are established as just and reasonable, and SWEPCO hereby is authorized,
directed and permitted to charge said rates from and after the date of this
section.  The rates as approved are hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in full herein. Copies are available through city offices.
(Ord. 18-76, passed 8-9-1976; Ord. 8-81, passed 8-6-1981; Ord. 21-82, passed
10-6-1982;  Ord. 24-82, passed 10-25-1982; Ord. 26-82, passed 11-22-1982; Ord.
1-84, passed 1-6-1984)
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
§ 52.30  MUNICIPAL STREET LIGHTING, MERCURY VAPOR.
   Southwestern Electric Power Company (formerly Southwestern Gas & Electric
Company) is hereby authorized and empowered to put into effect the municipal
street lighting rate for mercury vapor service identified as Schedule No. MV,
Code No. 76, 865 filed with the City Secretary on August 3, 1965 effective for
all new mercury vapor street lighting units installed after August 1, 1965. 
The rate schedule herein authorized is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in full herein.
(Res. R4-65, passed 8-3-1965)
§ 52.31  PUBLIC HIGHWAY LIGHTING SERVICE.
   (A)   Southwestern Electric Power Company (formerly Southwestern Gas &
Electric Company) is hereby authorized and empowered to make the following
electric rate schedules available for operation of publicly owned highway
lighting systems in Wake Village, Texas effective as of March 7, 1967.
   (B)   The following rate schedules are hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in full herein:
      (1)   Schedule No. PHL, Code No. 76, Public Highway Lighting Service.
Where the company will furnish electric service for operation of publicly owned
highway lighting systems using mercury vapor luminaires mounted at heights not
to exceed 40 feet above ground level.  The company will be responsible for
relamping and will replace glassware to be furnished by customer.
      (2)   Schedule No. PHL-E, Code No. 76, Public Highway Lighting Service -
Energy Only.  Under this rate schedule the company will provide electric
service only for operation of mercury vapor luminaires that are installed in a
publicly owned highway system.
(Res. 5-67, passed 3-7-1967)
§ 52.32  AREA LIGHTING SYSTEM, METAL HALIDE, AND/OR HIGH-PRESSURE SODIUM.
   (A)   Southwestern Electric Power Company is hereby authorized and empowered
to make the following electric rate schedule available for operation of area
lighting - (outdoor) in Wake Village Texas effective as of July 15, 1972.
   (B)   Schedule No. AL-O (1), Code No. 89, Area Lighting - (Outdoor).  Where
Company will furnish, install, own, operate, and maintain a complete area
lighting system utilizing metal halide and/or high-pressure sodium lamps.  The
lights will be controlled to burn from dusk to dawn.  The rate schedule is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
(Res. 8-72, passed 7-12-1972)
CHAPTER 53:  GAS SERVICE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Charges established
Standard Service Rules and Regulations of ARKLA
   
53.15   Applications for or discontinuance of service
   
53.16   Customers’ facilities and equipment
   
53.17   Refusal to serve customers
   
53.18   Discontinuance of service
   
53.19   Customer deposits
   
53.20   Billing
   
53.21   Connections and extensions
   
53.22   General
   
53.23   State and municipal taxes
   
53.24   Levelized payment plan
Rates and Charges
   
53.35   Rates for natural gas and gas service, adopted
   
Appendix A: Extension Surcharge Agreement
   
Appendix B: Calculations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01  CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   ARKLA, it successors and assigns, shall make charges for the sale of natural
gas and natural gas services to its residential and general service consumers
who use gas within the city limits of the City of Wake Village, Texas, as
provided by the rate schedules, supplements and service charges set forth in
Appendices
A and
B of this chapter and the Exhibits attached to Ordinance 2-95, which are hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.  The rate schedules,
supplements, and service charges are hereby adopted, established and authorized
as the proper, reasonable and lawful rates for the natural gas and natural gas
service.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 5-8-1995)
STANDARD SERVICE RULES AND REGULATIONS OF ARKLA
§ 53.15  APPLICATIONS FOR OR DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The company shall require all customers to execute a deposit-service
agreement upon application for gas service or upon the filing of a petition for
relief under the United States Bankruptcy Code.  Such agreements are not
transferable.  All customers accepting gas service from the company shall be
subject to the rules, regulations and rate schedules applicable.
   (B)   When gas service is inaugurated or transferred from one location to
another, or upon the filing of a petition for relief under the United States
Bankruptcy Code, the company shall make a nonrefundable service initiation
charge as provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted
by the City Council from time to time.
   (C)   When a customer requests the initiation or restoration of service
which requires overtime work after normal daily working hours or on weekends
and holidays, the customer will be advised of an additional charge which will
be based on actual overtime costs involved.  An overtime charge shall not apply
to work required through no fault of the customer.
   (D)   No customer may temporarily discontinue service and thereafter request
restoration and continuation of service under his or her old service agreement
but must execute a new agreement.  If service is discontinued at the request of
the customer and service is suspended during all or a portion of the non-
heating season and thereafter restored at the same location for the same
occupant, a reconnect charge will become due and payable when service is
restored.  This charge will be computed on the basis of the applicable customer
charge for each month or fraction thereof that service is discontinued.  Such
charge shall be in addition to the regular service initiation fee as provided
by a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council
from time to time.  Any commercial or industrial customer who discontinues
service for any period of time must be considered a new customer for state and
federal regulatory policy purposes when application is made for restoration of
service.
   (E)   The company will not accept orders to discontinue service other than
from the person in whose name the account is billed.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 5-8-1995)
§ 53.16  CUSTOMERS’ FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every consumer to use gas in an efficient
manner and in efficient appliances.  Gas should not be burned in an appliance
designed for coal or other fuel and not efficient for burning gas, nor in
fireplaces with open chimney flues wasteful of the heat, cooking ranges with
solid tops, or cooking or laundry stoves with burners more than one and one-
half inches below the bottom of the cooking utensil, or wasteful or improperly
adjusted or clogged machines, or in any water heater or other appliance or
furnace not reasonably efficient.  Vent pipes should be used on water heaters,
cook stoves, enclosed type space heaters, or other appliances especially
designed to be vented.
   (B)   The consumer shall provide a system of piping within his or her
premises for connection to gas appliances.  Consumer’s piping should not re-
enter the ground after once reaching the surface.  Consumer shall provide an
outlet side for the meter loop in a suitable location.  The normal gauge
pressure, at which gas will be supplied through the company’s meter to the
customer’s piping, will be approximately 5.3 ounces PSIG.  A pressure higher
than that may be supplied to an individual customer who so requests.
   (C)   The company under previously existing regulations has provided service
through one master meter to private distribution lines for multiple federal,
municipal, or private housing projects and mobile home parks, and has in some
cases provided individual meters for such facilities.  Bills will be rendered
on an individual basis to the individual metered customers, but the customer(s)
owning the private distribution line or being served by the private
distribution line will be responsible for payment of any differences between
gas delivered through the master meter and gas delivered through the sum total
of individual meters.  All such construction within the above mentioned
projects and mobile home parks must meet the requirements of all federal,
state, and local piping laws before the company will connect the customer.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 5-8-1995)
§ 53.17  REFUSAL TO SERVE CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The company may decline to serve a customer or prospective customer
until he or she has complied with the state and municipal regulations governing
the service applied for and the reasonable rules and regulations of the
utility.
   (B)   Until adequate facilities can be provided, the company may decline to
serve an applicant for service or to change materially the service of any
customer if, in its judgment, it does not have adequate facilities to render
the service applied for or if the desired service is of a character that is
likely to affect unfavorably the service to other customers.
   (C)   The company may refuse to serve a customer if, in its best judgment,
the customer’s installation or equipment is regarded as hazardous or of a
character that satisfactory service cannot be given.
   (D)   The company may refuse to serve individual mobile homes and house
trailers if the trailer does not have a firm foundation which will not permit
it to rock or move, thereby cracking or parting the connecting pipe or
facilities.  None of the weight of the trailer may be carried on the wheels or
springs. All piping and appliance installations in trailers must be made in
compliance with applicable laws, codes, and ordinances governing such
installations.
   (E)   The company may decline to serve any applicant who is indebted to the
company for gas utility service; provided, however, that in the event the
indebtedness of the applicant for service is in dispute, applicant shall be
served upon complying with the deposit requirement and, in addition thereto,
making a special deposit in an amount equal to the net balance in dispute. 
Upon settlement of a disputed account, the balance, if any, due the applicant
shall be promptly repaid, together with interest thereon from the date of the
deposit until repaid at the rate prescribed by law or order of the Commission.
   (F)   The company shall also have the right to refuse service or to
discontinue the supply of gas to a customer at a location until payment shall
be made of delinquent bills for gas utility service for the customer at other
premises.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 5-8-1995)
§ 53.18  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The company reserves the right to shut off the gas at any time and to
remove its property from the premises for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   For tests or repairs;
      (2)   For non-payment of bills for gas utility service when due, after
required notice has been given;
      (3)   For incorrect representation of facts in application for service,
after required notice has been given;
      (4)   For failure to make or increase the cash deposit when required by
the company, after required notice has been given;
      (5)   For reselling gas in violation of the company’s Standard Rules and
Regulations, after required notice has been given;
      (6)   For placing or permitting the placing of any by-pass around any
meter or service line; or for tampering; or permitting tampering with same;
      (7)   For permitting pipes, or appliances owned or used by the customer
to leak or otherwise permit the escape or waste of gas, after required notice
has been given;
      (8)   For failure to comply with the Rules and Regulations of the
company, after required notice has been given;
      (9)   Failure to pay the applicable connect charge, after required notice
has been given;
      (10)   On order of municipal authorities having jurisdiction; or
      (11)   When checks received from customer for amounts past due or for the
required deposit are repeatedly not honored when presented to the bank for
payment, then service may be discontinued without advance notice.
   (B)   The company shall not discontinue service to any customer for
violation of its rules or regulations nor for nonpayment of bills without first
having diligently tried to induce the customer to comply with its rules and
regulations, or to pay amounts due the company.  Service may be discontinued
after five-days’ written notice shall have been given to the customer by the
company in the manner provided for in division (D) below.  Prior notice of
disconnection shall not be required for fraudulent, negligent, or unlawful use
of the commodity or service detected, or where a dangerous condition is found
to exist on a customer’s premises.
   (C)   The customer shall have the privilege of paying any delinquent account
at any time prior to the actual disconnection or turning off of service;
provided, however, that payment at company’s office within four hours of the
time of actual disconnection or turning off of service shall not affect the
right to disconnect or turn off service for nonpayment.  Whenever the company
dispatches an employee to the premises of any customer for the purpose of
discontinuing service for nonpayment, and such payment arrangements are made
that do not result in actually disconnecting or turning off of service, a fee
as provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary that is adopted
by the City Council from time to time, shall be added to and collected as a
part of the delinquent account to cover, in part, the cost to the company of
dispatching the employee to the customer’s premises.  A charge as provided by a
fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from
time to time, may also be added to an account and collected to recover cost for
reprocessing any check that has been returned to the company by the bank by
reason of insufficient funds on deposit.  Whenever service has actually been
disconnected on account of the failure of the customer to pay the delinquent
account, or for any other reason without fault of the utility if the customer
desires the service to be reconnected, the company shall require the customer
to pay a reconnection charge as provided by a fee schedule maintained by the
City Secretary that is adopted by the City Council from time to time.
   (D)   Notice of delinquency shall be construed to be given to the customer
when a copy of the notice is left with the customer, or left at the premises
where service is required, or posted in the United States mail addressed to the
customer’s last known post office address, except as specified in divisions (H)
and (I) below.
   (E)   The company shall not be liable for any damage to persons or property
resulting from the discontinuance of gas service after having given the
required notice.  Arrangement satisfactory to the company for the continuance
of service on account of serious illness or other causes shall be made by the
customer prior to the expiration of the notice period.
   (F)   When, at the customer’s request, the company changes the location at
which service is rendered, the gas consumed at the new and old locations, for
the purposes of billing, shall be combined.  The change of the location to
which service is rendered shall not be deemed to affect the rights of the
company with regard to the application of deposit or discontinuance of service
for nonpayment of the account.
   (G)   The fact that the company has a cash deposit from a customer shall not
in any manner affect the right of the company to discontinue service to that
customer for the nonpayment of amounts past due, regardless of the fact that
the deposit is in excess of the amount past due.
   (H)   Termination of service to elderly persons, handicapped persons, and
persons with serious  illnesses.
      (1)   Definitions.  Disputes as to the existence of elderly or
handicapped status shall be resolved pursuant to Subpart 8J.
         (a)   ELDERLY.  An ELDERLY person is any residential customer aged 65
or older whose total gross income is less than or equal to the median income
for Texas families categorized as “65 years and over” in Table 19A or successor
tables reported in Consumer Income: Money  Income and Poverty Status in 1975
of  Families and Persons in the United States  and the South Region, By
Divisions and States (Spring 1976 Survey of Income and Education) published by
the Bureau of the Census of the United States Department of Commerce, as most
recently published.
         (b)   HANDICAPPED. Any residential customer:
            1.   Who has any permanent severe physical or mental impairment
which substantially limits his or her ability to pay for utility service; and
            2.   Who is certified as being physically or mentally disabled by a
physician, licensed psychologist, by the United States Veterans Administration,
the Social Security Administration, the appropriate governmental agency, or a
local regional mental health center.
         (c)   SERIOUS ILLNESS.  Includes serious injury not amounting to a
handicap.
      (2)   Special provision for the elderly and handicapped. 
         (a)   Each utility shall file with the Commission, for its approval,
procedures the utility will follow to insure the protection of elderly and
handicapped customers.  In addition, each utility shall keep records of ail
delinquent accounts of elderly or handicapped customers and the disposition of
these accounts.  Protection procedures shall include:
            1.   Identification of eligible households;
            2.   Personal contact by telephone or in person by utility
personnel to arrange installment of deferred payment of any delinquency;
            3.   Notification of right to third-party notice before termination
of service; and
            4.   Assistance to customers wishing to make arrangements with
state or local social service agencies for payment for service.
         (b)   The procedures may require elderly and handicapped persons to
disclose information and furnish documents in connection with the status
claimed on an annual basis.  If a customer provides false information to the
utility in order to claim an exemption under this rule, it shall be grounds for
termination.  Customers establishing eligibility to claim an exemption as
elderly or handicapped shall be presumed to retain this status for one year
after the date eligibility is established.  Eligibility related to income level
and ability to pay for utility service shall be reestablished annually.
      (3)   Delay of termination on grounds of serious illness.
         (a)   1.   A utility shall postpone termination of service to a
residential customer, or reconnect previously terminated service, for a
reasonable time up to 30 days if the customer presents a certificate from a
physician stating it is likely that termination of service will either
aggravate a serious illness or give rise to a substantial risk of death or a
grave impairment of the health of the customer, of a member of the customer’s
family, or of another permanent resident of the premises where service is
rendered.  The certificate shall identify the medical emergency, specify the
effect of termination of service, and specify the time during which termination
of service will aggravate the illness.  The utility may, at its expense, obtain
an additional medical report or certificate from a physician of its choice and
may rely on that opinion and in reliance on that opinion terminate service five
days after mailing an additional notice of termination to the customer. 
Failure of customer without good cause to attend the company-scheduled medical
appointment shall be sufficient reason for termination of service by the
utility.
            2.   A customer, his or her physician, or a nurse, nurse
practitioner, physician’s assistant, or a public or private agency providing
physical or mental health care services may notify the utility of a serious
illness in person, by telephone, or by letter.  The customer shall have seven
days from the date of notification to present the certificate.  Notice by
telephone shall be subject to verification by the utility.
         (b)   The 30-day postponement may be extended one time by renewal by
notice as above and renewal of the certificate by a physician as above.
         (c)   Disputes over the existence or seriousness of the illness shall
be resolved under Subpart 8J.
         (d)   Continuation or reconnection of service under this rule shall
not in any way relieve the customer of liability incurred for utility services.
      (4)   Delay of termination for elderly and handicapped persons.
         (a)   Residential utility service shall not be terminated and, if
previously terminated, shall be reconnected, during the months of November
through March for elderly and handicapped customers of the utility, provided
that service may be terminated if the customers fail to pay at least one-half
of the amount billed for service either as they fall due or pursuant to delayed
payment agreement.  Any balance due for service during these months shall be
made in the months of April through October in installments agreed upon by the
customer and the utility.  If, during the months of April through October, a
customer fails to pay the deferred balance due for service from November to
March, the utility shall not be obligated to refrain from terminating or to
reconnect service during the next November through March time period. 
Residential gas air condition service to these customers shall not be
terminated on a day when the National Weather Service forecasts between 5:00
a.m. and 8:00 a.m. a maximum temperature for that day of 95 °  Fahrenheit, or
higher.
      (b)   At least 72 hours prior to the proposed termination of residential
service to an elderly or handicapped person, a utility shall personally contact
the customer, a person living in this household, or any other person or agency
designated by the elderly or handicapped person to receive notice in person or
by telephone during the utility’s normal working hours or between 9:00 a.m. and
4:00 p.m. on Saturdays and holidays that termination of service is imminent and
that steps can be taken to avoid termination.  This notice shall include an
explanation of the procedures available under this or other applicable rules. 
If none of these parties is contacted on the first attempt, a second attempt
shall be made and may take place between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      (c)   Continuation or reconnection of service under this rule shall not
in any way relieve the customer of liability incurred for utility services.
   (I)   Notice of termination to tenants.
      (1)   For the purposes of this rule, LANDLORD means the owner, agent,
manager, or lessor of premises intended primarily for residential use for which
he or she receives lease or rent payments which include amounts for utility
service.
      (2)   Each utility shall file with the Commission procedures for
identifying accounts where service is rendered at an address different from the
mailing address of the bill.  Such procedures may include requiring landlords
to identify themselves as such and to identify their tenants by name, address,
and account number.  Absent this identification, the utility shall not be
required to treat a customer as a tenant unless it has actual knowledge or
information that reliably indicates that the person to whom service is rendered
is a tenant.
      (3)   The utility shall not disconnect service to such an account for
nonpayment of the bill until the following actions have been taken:
         (a)   When a termination notice has been sent to the landlord, if no
response is received by the utility within seven days, notice shall also be
sent to the affected tenants or shall be posted in conspicuous locations such
as near mail boxes, building entrances and exits, and other areas of common
usage.
         (b)   If a landlord fails to pay for service to a tenant a utility
shall not terminate service to the tenant until at least 30 days have elapsed
from the date of the delinquency, and, after being notified of the delinquency,
the tenant has not paid for service provided after the date of notification or
made arrangements with the utility to do so.
         (c)   Where feasible, the utility shall offer the tenant the
opportunity to apply for service in his or her own name. If this service is not
feasible or if the tenant declines to apply for such service, the utility may
terminate service as provided in Subpart 8E(3)(b).  If the tenant chooses to
take service in his or her own name, termination shall thereafter be governed
by other appropriate provisions of this rule.
         (d)   Where premises are master-metered and a tenant and the utility
are unable to agree upon payments to be made by the tenant for service, the
utility shall petition the Commission for an immediate informal resolution or
formal hearing to resolve the dispute.
      (4)   A utility shall not attempt to recover from a tenant or condition
service to a tenant on the payment of any amounts owed by the landlord to the
utility.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 5-8-1995)
§ 53.19  CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The company may require, with each service application from any
customer or any prospective customer, a cash deposit to guarantee payment of
bill.  This required deposit shall not exceed an amount equivalent to two
estimated average bills when payment is due after the service is rendered.  The
company shall pay interest on the deposit at the rate prescribed by law or
order of the Commission.  When service is discontinued by the company for any
reason other than for repairs, the company may apply such deposit to the
payment of all charges authorized under these Rules and Regulations.  Interest
will not accrue on deposits when they become inactive.  The company shall pay
interest on deposits annually in January of each year and upon return of the
deposit to the customer.
   (B)   Interest shall not accrue on any cash deposit after the date the
company has made a bona fide effort to return the deposit to the depositor. 
The company shall keep in its records evidence of its efforts to return the
deposit.
   (C)   A new or additional deposit may be required upon reasonable written
notice of the need of such a requirement in any case where a deposit has been
refunded or is found to be inadequate as above provided for, or as provided by
the applicable provisions of the Commission’s General Service Rules, as they
may be in effect from time to time.  The service of any customer who fails to
comply with these requirements may be disconnected upon five-days’ written
notice.
   (D)   All charges authorized under these Rules and Regulations shall be due
and payable on the same terms and conditions as charges made for gas service
and the same procedure for discontinuance of service for such charges may be
applied against refunds, if any, due on the customer’s deposits.
   (E)   Upon the filing of a petition for relief under the United States
Bankruptcy Code, the customer will be required to provide a cash deposit in an
amount not to exceed two times the maximum estimated bill for the service
location.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 5-8-1995)
§ 53.20  BILLING.
   (A)   Gas supplies will be charged for from the time of turn on until the
company discontinues the supply.  Failure on the part of the customer to
properly notify the company when their responsibility for the payment for gas
at a premises ceases, shall not relieve the customer from the obligation of
paying all bills accruing up to the time proper notification is received by the
company.  The customer shall pay for all gas passing through the meter, whether
the same be used or wasted through leaks in pipes, apparatus, or otherwise and
shall be bound by the true reading of the meter, provided it is in good repair
and working order.
   (B)   Bills rendered for service for less than the standard monthly billing
period shall be calculated as follows:
      (1)   Where meter reading indicates no consumption and the period
involved is less than 15 days, no charge will be made.  If the period involved
is 15 days or more, applicable monthly minimum will be charged.
      (2)   Where meter reading indicates any consumption, regular rate
schedules will apply, regardless of period involved.  Meter will be read to the
nearest hundred cubic feet and bills computed on this basis.
      (3)   Where consumer changes location within the same distribution plant,
the consumption at both locations will be combined for the monthly billing.
   (C)   All customers of company which are either 60 years of age or older and
depend upon a pension or Social Security check as their primary source of
income, or are dependent solely upon a disability income, regardless of age,
are eligible to participate in the company’s FLEX-DATE Payment Plan.  This Plan
will extend the due date for payment to the earlier of:  25 days after the
current month’s bill date, or three work days before the next month’s bill
date.  Only the extended due date provided by FLEX-DATE will appear on eligible
customers’ bills.  In addition, the company will waive any otherwise applicable
late penalty.  Customers shall become Plan participants either upon telephone
or form notification to company, and their participation will be effective for
each month of each calendar year thereafter.
   (D)   Monthly statements will be delivered to the location at which gas is
supplied, by an employee of the company, or posted in the United States mail,
unless the customer has directed the company in writing to send statements to
another address.  The terms DELIVERED or RENDERED shall not be construed as an
obligation on the part of the company to deliver or render statements to the
customer in person, or to other occupants of the premises.  Duplicate copy of
statements will be furnished upon request, and failure to receive statements
for any reason whatsoever, will not entitle customer to further time to pay
account, or to a continuation of gas supply if account is overdue.
   (E)   Customers whose facilities are located on pipeline taps which are not
centrally odorized will receive monthly statements based on the customer’s
reading of the meter.  If the meter is not read by the customer, bills will be
estimated.  The company will read these meters at least every six months and
the difference between the customer readings or the estimated consumption will
be billed or credited to the customer’s account.
   (F)   A RESIDENTIAL APARTMENT shall be defined as a room or group of rooms
which contain a sink and/or cooking facilities and shall be considered a
separate apartment for metering and billing purposes.  House trailers shall
also be considered separate apartments for metering and billing purposes.
   (G)   Individual residential customer premises shall be metered and billed
separately even if under common ownership, and combined metering or billing
shall not be permitted.  Commercial and industrial premises shall be considered
separate when not on the same tract or contiguous tracts of land, or when each
is a complete unit not physically integrated with, or essentially a part of,
the other or others, and each renders a complete service or produces a finished
product.  Tracts of land separated by public streets, roads, or alleys shall be
considered noncontiguous tracts.
   (H)   The commercial rate schedule of the company will be applied to the gas
used in two or more individual flats or apartments in a dwelling which was
originally constructed as, or which has been converted into, a multiple-family
building and where the owner has not elected to separately meter the gas used
in each individual flat or apartment.  Rooming houses without cooking
facilities, tourist homes for transients and hotels will be metered and billed
as single unit on the commercial rate.
   (I)   The company may make a charge as provided by a fee schedule maintained
by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time, for any
special meter reading which it is called upon to make other than on the regular
reading date.  Where interim meter readings are furnished the owner of premises
the company accepts no responsibility as to the distribution of the monthly
bill as between tenants.
   (J)   Claims for error in statements rendered should be made by the customer
as soon as discovered; if the claim is found to be meritorious, the company
will make proper adjustment on the customer’s subsequent bills, or make refund
to the customer within a reasonable time.
   (K)   The company shall make a test of the accuracy of registration of a
meter upon request of a customer.  If such test shows the meter to be slow or
within the tolerance limit as to accuracy of registration, the customer may be
required to pay a charge as provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City
Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time, for each test so
made.  If the test shows the meter to be fast and in excess of the tolerance
limit of accuracy, the test shall be made at the expense of the company and an
adjustment shall be made with the customer.  If no such test has been performed
within the previous four years for the same customer at the same location, the
test is to be performed without charge.
   (L)   In case a meter ceases to register, the quantity consumed will be
estimated from the amount consumed during the corresponding period for the
previous year, giving due consideration to weather and other pertinent factors,
or by such other method that will be equitable.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 5-8-1995)
§ 53.21  CONNECTIONS AND EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The company will make, own, and maintain all necessary connections
with its street mains, and install a service line to the customer’s location at
company’s expense for installation for up to 75 feet.  Installation costs
beyond 75 feet will be borne by the customer.  The company will own, maintain,
and specify the route of the piping.  Access must be granted on customer’s
property for replacement or repairs of these facilities.  The company may at
its option install a service cock and box.  The meter location will be
determined by the company.  The company will also set and own the meter and
regulator, but all other piping, connections, and appliances for the purpose of
utilizing gas shall be furnished and installed by the house owner or consumer
at his or her risk and expense.
   (B)   Extensions from the company’s distribution lines will be made under
the following conditions and circumstances:
      (1)   In considering main extensions in distribution plants, main
extensions in rural areas, and extensions from pipeline taps, the company shall
construct these extensions from its existing facilities to serve new customers
where the cost of the company’s capital investment is economically feasible. 
If the construction cost of the extension exceeds the company’s allowable
capital investment, as determined in accordance with
Appendix B to this chapter, then the customer will be required to pay the
amount above the allowable capital investment referred to as Above Threshold
Investment (ATI).  On such an advance, the company will enter into an agreement
with the customer to refund his or her contribution.  Refunds will be based
only on the amounts in excess of annual stated load under which the original
investment costs were calculated.  The company shall establish, when capital
funds are available, such new distribution service where the company will be
reasonably assured of a sufficient number of customers and an annual revenue to
justify the capital expenditure.
      (2)   When the company is requested to extend its distribution facilities
to an area with existing potential users where no contributory capital is
available and the estimated annual usage exceeds 4,250 Mcf or the estimated
service connections exceed 50, then the company has the option to provide the
necessary capital in the amount equal to the ATI cost of the project to be
recovered by a surcharge rate applied to each MCF of gas sold within the
boundaries of the project for up to five years [special conditions may warrant
extending this period based on economic conditions], or until the ATI is
recovered by the company, whichever comes first.  Under this option, the
company will construct and finance the facilities and recover the ATI cost
through surcharge rates in addition to an appropriate interest (or debt service
charge) assigned to the capital required to fund the ATI construction costs. 
If ATI costs are not recovered during the special pay-back period, the
remaining amount of ATI will be added to and included in the company’s overall
rate base from that point forward.  To ensure sufficient customer commitment to
each project, each customer will be required to sign an Extension Surcharge
Agreement and to pay a customer deposit at the time service is initiated. 
Surcharge areas are defined as those areas in which the required number of
existing potential customer connections are agreed upon to establish the
surcharge areas.  After the initial installation of facilities to serve the
surcharge area, all subsequent connections which utilize mains from the
original surcharge area installation will be subject to same rates and
surcharge rate to be applied to each Mcf of gas for the remaining period of the
surcharge agreement.
      (3)   When new extensions from the surcharge area are requested, the
person(s) requesting an extension from these facilities will be required to
execute an extension agreement stated under division (B)(1) above for ATI costs
if applicable and, in addition, will be subject to the surcharge rate for the
remaining period of the surcharge rates.
      (4)   When a subsequent area (50 customers, or 4,250 Mcf or more)
requests service utilizing the facilities of an existing surcharge area, the
following regulations will apply:
         (a)   When a subsequent surcharge area is established after the
installation of an existing surcharge area and the subsequent surcharge area’s
ATI results in a surcharge rate in excess of the surcharge rate applicable to
the established surcharge area, then the subsequent surcharge area will bear
only the cost of their new facilities.
         (b)   When a subsequent surcharge area is established after the
installation of an existing surcharge area and the subsequent surcharge area’s
ATI results in a surcharge rate which is less than the surcharge rates
applicable to the established surcharge area, then the subsequent surcharge
area will bear a portion of the remaining unpaid ATI balance of the established
surcharge area in addition to its own surcharge allocation as follows:
      The cost of the mainline established for the existing surcharge area
shall be shared by the subsequent surcharge area up to an amount equal to the
existing area surcharge rate if their computed surcharge is lower than the
surcharge for the existing area.  This shall be achieved by assigning an
unamortized portion of mainline investment which was required for the existing
surcharge area to the subsequent surcharge area in order to fairly equate the
surcharges.  The amount of investment cost assigned to the subsequent surcharge
area will then be credited to the unamortized amount payable by the existing
surcharge area customers.
   (C)   The company will not be required to enlarge its system of mains to
meet the demand for gas of a prospective customer or to provide for an
appreciable increase in the demands of a present customer unless in the
judgment of the company a reasonable rate of return is assured as a result of
the expenditure required.
   (D)   When the company extends its main to serve new customers, the company
will extend that main which, in its judgment, will be most advantageous for
rendering service.
   (E)   Where the customer requires that his or her meter be placed
underground in a curb box, the company will make a reasonable charge to cover
the additional cost of the underground meter, the cost of the curb box and lid
and the added installation cost.  The installation shall become and remain the
property of the company.
   (F)   (1)   A standard rural gas contract must be executed by each customer
requesting a pipeline tap.  The company will not make or serve a tap on any
federally certificated transmission line, unless, in the judgment of the
company, a reasonable rate of return can be earned as a result of the
expenditure required to construct the tap and serve the customer, without
unreasonable consequences to other customers.  In addition, the company will
not make a tap on any other transmission line, field gathering pipeline, or
lines to wells which, in the company’s opinion, presently contain or may in the
foreseeable future contain undehydrated gas, liquid hydrocarbons, sour gas, or
gas that is otherwise not merchantable.
      (2)   For purposes of computing a reasonable rate of return, ARKLA will
apply the above threshold investment (ATI) calculation according to the class
of customer but make adjustments to the non-gas cost to represent the
incremental cost associated with this customer outside the common distance of
our service area (approximately 20 miles).  ARKLA will reduce the non-gas costs
in the ATI by a representative factor of cost per mile.  The adjusted non-gas
cost will not be allowed to go below the return on investment (ROI) included in
the original non-gas cost.  If the adjusted non-gas cost less the ROI is less
than or equal to zero, the proposed tap will be identified as not economically
feasible and will negate ARKLA’s obligation to serve.  If the adjusted non-gas
costs are greater than zero, then the ROI should be added to the balance and
adjusted for depreciation and state and federal taxes.  The result is
multiplied by the present value ordinary annuity factor to establish a new ATI
for that potential pipeline customer.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 5-8-1995)
§ 53.22  GENERAL.
   (A)   The consumer shall use the gas delivered hereunder for his or her
purposes only, and shall not, under any circumstances, resell or share with
others any gas delivered hereunder.  No changes, extensions, or replacement of
service pipe without written consent of the company shall be made, and no
extension whatsoever of customer owned piping shall be made for the purpose of
supplying gas to adjacent property, or other person or concerns residing or
operating on premises of consumer.
   (B)   The foregoing natural gas resale prohibition shall not apply to
distributors selling compressed natural gas as a motor vehicle fuel.
   (C)   The authorized agent of the company shall have the right and
permission and invitation of the customer to enter upon the premises of the
customer to inspect or test lines and appliances, to read, change or remove the
meter, or to shut off the gas.  This right shall not be construed as placing
any responsibility on the company to inspect and test the lines or equipment of
the customer.
   (D)   The place of delivery of all gas purchased shall be at the outside
wall of the first structure being served if the company has installed or
replaced the service line to that point.  In all other cases, the place of
delivery of all gas purchased shall be at the point of connection to the
consumer’s service line from which point all gas delivered shall become the
property of the consumer, who shall thereafter be responsible for its passage
through the meter and for all damage caused by the gas.
   (E)   The company shall not be liable for any injury to person or property
from any cause arising inside of the consumer’s curb or property line.  The
company does not guarantee to supply gas at a uniform pressure, nor that the
supply will be adequate at all times.  In case the supply of gas should fail,
whether from natural causes, bursting of pipes or accident in any way, the
company shall not be liable for damage by reason of that failure.
   (F)   Meters and pipes are likely to freeze in cold weather, and it shall be
the duty of each consumer to protect the pipes and the meter or meters from the
action of the elements.
   (G)   These Rules and Regulations are made a part and condition of all rate
schedules of the company and all customers served under such schedules shall be
subject to these Rules and Regulations.
   (H)   These Rules and Regulations are in addition to rules and regulations
now established by the regulatory body having jurisdiction over these matters.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 5-8-1995)
§ 53.23  STATE AND MUNICIPAL TAXES.
   Whenever the state or a municipality imposes upon the company any sales
privilege, occupation, meter, or other special tax, except ad valorem taxes,
the company shall pass the tax on to customers within the jurisdiction of the
taxing authority in accordance with provisions set forth in the tax law or
ordinance.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 5-8-1995)
§ 53.24  LEVELIZED PAYMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Choice of billing for residential customers.  Residential customers
shall have the option (provided they meet certain qualifications) of adopting
the Levelized Payment Plan (LPP) for billing purposes as opposed to the normal
billing procedure.
   (B)   Operation of the Levelized Payment Plan. 
      (1)   Under the LPP a customer’s bill will be computed by summing the
most recent 12-months’ historical volumes and dividing by 12 to arrive at an
average consumption level.  This average consumption level is used to calculate
an average bill by applying a pre-calculated factor and applicable tax factor
and rounding to the nearest dollar.  The average bill amount thus derived will
be the monthly payment amount for each of the succeeding six months.
      (2)   Actual billings will continue to be based upon the applicable rates
and meter readings obtained to determine consumption.  The amount due under the
LPP will be indentified as a separate item on the customer’s bill so the
customer will know the amount to pay.  The actual bill amount will also be
reflected on the bill as a memo item for the customer’s information.  At such
time as an account on the LPP becomes delinquent, a late payment charge may be
assessed against the delinquent amount due under the LPP.
      (3)   The cumulative difference between actual billings and the levelized
billings under the LPP will be carried in a deferred balance that will
accumulate both debit and credit differences.
      (4)   The monthly payment amount will be automatically reviewed and
adjusted six months after the anniversary date.  This adjustment will be made
to assure that the difference between actual payments and average payments
under the LPP will be minimal.  The new LPP payment amount will be computed by
averaging the sum of the most recent six months actual billings and a projected
amount for the next six months.  The projected amount will be derived by
applying the current residential rate, cost-of-gas adjustment, and applicable
tax factor to each of the most recent year’s historical volumes for the
corresponding months.  This amount will be rounded to the nearest dollar and
will be the monthly LPP payment amount for the next six months.
      (5)   On the initial and subsequent anniversary dates a new levelized
payment amount is calculated by averaging the nearest dollar, the amount of the
deferred balance and the amount derived by applying the current residential
rate, cost-of-gas adjustment, and applicable tax factor to each of the most
recent 12-months’ historical volumes.  This new LPP amount will then be in
effect until the time of the next six-months review.  On each subsequent
anniversary date a new levelized payment amount will be calculated in this
manner.
      (6)   In those instances where sufficient billing history is not
available, a 12-month billing history will be estimated by the local manager. 
The estimated history will be based on actual billings for those months in
which actual billing data is available and estimated for those months in which
no such actual billing is available.
      (7)   Participation in the LPP will have no effect on the company’s
approved rate schedules or other billing charges used to calculate the
customer’s actual monthly billing.
   (C)   Customer qualification for Levelized Payment Plan.
      (1)   The LPP shall be made available to residential customers only.  The
LPP is optional and will be available only on customer request, after an
appropriate application for the LPP is completed and submitted to the company’s
local business office and subsequently approved.
      (2)   At the time a customer elects to participate in the LPP, his or her
account must be in current status.  This means that the current billings must
not be past due and no unpaid balance exists on his or her account.
      (3)   A customer who is unable to bring his or her account to current
status may be placed on the LPP upon approval by the local manager by using the
LPP average billing amount plus an additional amount over a specific period of
time.
      (4)   Customer may discontinue LPP at any time by notifying the company. 
If a customer requests termination, if an account is final billed, or if the
customer is terminated by the company as a result of past due amounts on an
account, any outstanding balance owed to the company at the time, including any
differences between billings under the LPP and billings which would have been
rendered under normal billing procedures shall be immediately due and payable. 
Likewise, any credit due customer shall be applied to the next bill.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 5-8-1995)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.35  RATES FOR NATURAL GAS AND GAS SERVICE, ADOPTED.
   (A)   ARKLA is hereby ordered to issue and file with the City Secretary of
the City of Wake Village, Texas, tariff sheets containing residential and
commercial rate schedules identical to those rate schedules attached to
Ordinance 9-02 as Exhibit A, and that those rate schedules are hereby adopted,
established and authorized as the proper, reasonable and lawful rates for such
natural gas service.  Exhibit A is herewith adopted by reference as if set out
in full herein.
   (B)   The rates, set out on the rate schedules filed pursuant to division
(A) hereof, are to be observed by ARKLA, its successors and assigns until
changed as provided by the Gas Utility Regulatory Act, Tex. Util. Code Ch. 101
et seq.
   (C)   This order, determining the level of rates to be charged and apply by
ARKLA, shall be served upon ARKLA by United States mail.
   (D)   The tariff sheets approved by this section shall become effective with
bills rendered on and after September 21, 2002.
(Ord. 9-02, passed 9-9-2002)
APPENDIX A:  EXTENSION SURCHARGE AGREEMENT
   EXTENSION SURCHARGE AGREEMENT
The undersigned promises to pay to ARKLA a monthly surcharge on his/her/their/
its gas usage in consideration of the company’s extension of its facilities
into the surcharge area in which the undersigned resides.  The surcharge amount
will be as provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary that is
adopted by the City Council from time to time per Mcf.  The surcharge will be
applied to all gas consumed by the undersigned until                     ,
20__, or until the company recovers its Above Threshold Investment for the
surcharge area, whichever comes first.  The surcharge amount will appear as a
separate line item on the undersigned’s bill.
The terms of this Extension Surcharge Agreement shall be subject to the
provisions of the company’s rate schedules and Rule VII (Connections and
Extensions) of the company’s Standard Rules and Regulations.
                                                              
                                                              
Accepted this                      day of                     , 20    .
ARKLA
a division of NORAM ENERGY CORP.
By                                         
(Ord. 2-95, passed 5-8-1995)
APPENDIX B:  CALCULATIONS
Editor’s note:
   All calculations shall be as provided by a schedule maintained by the City
Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time.
CHAPTER 54:  WATER REGULATIONS
Section
Connections
   
54.01   Connection to city water required
   
54.02   Tap fees for water mains
   
54.03   Irrigation meter
   
54.04   Extensions require permit
   
54.05   Tap to be made by city employees
   
54.06   Violations, fine
   
54.07   Cutoff of unlawful extension
   
54.08   Appeal
Water Use/Service
   
54.20   Water meters required
   
54.21   Meter installation
   
54.22   Bills; when payable
   
54.23   Deposit
   
54.24   Rates
   
54.25   Effective date
Drought Contingency Plan
   
54.40   Declaration of policy, purpose and intent
   
54.41   Public information
   
54.42   Public education
   
54.43   Coordination with regional water planning groups
   
54.44   Authorization
   
54.45   Application
   
54.46   Definitions
   
54.47   Criteria for initiation and termination of drought response stages
   
54.48   Drought response stages
   
54.49   Enforcement
 
   
54.99   Penalty
CONNECTIONS
§ 54.01  CONNECTION TO CITY WATER REQUIRED.
   All residences, businesses, and other users of water within the city shall
be connected to and use city supplied water.  This shall include but not be
limited to all consumption or contact with humans whether inside or outside of
any structure.  No wells or other methods of obtaining water may be installed
or used within the city limits, except after application to and permit granted
by the City Council, and then for no other purpose, except as is granted by the
City Council.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 54.02  TAP FEES FOR WATER MAINS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the builder, developer, and home owner to
deposit with the City Secretary at the time a building permit is issued, the
tap fees for water mains, as follows.
   (B)   (1)   If the water mains have been installed by a developer or
previously installed by the city and no special tap fee has been determined by
the City Council for the lot or tract in issue:
 
Water Tap:
                                          As provided by a fee schedule
   For 5/8" by 3/4" meter              maintained by the City Secretary,
                                          adopted by the City Council from time
                                          to time
   For all meters over 5/8" by 3/4" in Actual cost of materials, plus labor
size                                      charges as is determined by the City
                                          Superintendent
Irrigation Meter:
                                          As provided by a fee schedule
   For 5/8" by 3/4" meter              maintained by the City Secretary,
                                          adopted by the City Council from time
                                          to time
   For all meters over 5/8" by 3/4" in Actual cost of materials as is
size                                      determined by the City Superintendent
 
      (2)   If the water mains have not been installed by a developer, and the
city is bearing the cost of installing the water mains and providing service to
the user, the City Engineer shall calculate the estimated cost of the service,
along with the number and identity of the potential lots to be served, and
present that information along with his or her recommendation to the City
Council.  The City Council shall consider the City Engineer’s recommendation,
the desirability of serving the user with water, and the proposed cost to the
user of obtaining alternate sources of water, and shall determine an equitable
amount of the cost to assess each lot or tract for its water tap fee.  That
determination shall be made by resolution of the City Council and shall
thereafter be the tap fee charged to the lot or tract for making the water tap.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 5-9-1983; Ord. 4-84, passed 3-12-1984)
§ 54.03  IRRIGATION METER.
   No sewer charge will be assessed against the water measured through the
irrigation meter.
(Ord. 4-84, passed 3-12-1984)
§ 54.04  EXTENSIONS REQUIRE PERMIT.
   (A)   No user of water shall extend or provide any water or water service
from his or her service without a permit properly issued under the ordinances
of the City of Wake Village.  No user of water shall extend or provide any
water or water service from his or her service to any other user inside or
outside of the city without the permission of the City Council.
   (B)   All existing water taps and extensions of services that have been
heretofore approved by the Mayor, City Council or City Superintendent are
hereby approved by this City Council and shall not be violative of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 54.05  TAP TO BE MADE BY CITY EMPLOYEES..
   The builder, developer, or owner who desires water services shall notify the
City Secretary and City Superintendent of his or her or her requirement for a
tap to the city water mains.  The water tap will only be made by city employees
under the supervision of the City Superintendent.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 54.06  VIOLATIONS, FINE.
   Any person or entity who omits or refuses to comply with this subchapter, in
any part, or participates in the violation hereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by the Municipal Court of Wake Village, Texas, and upon
conviction shall be subject to the provisions of §
54.99.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 5-9-1983)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.07  CUTOFF OF UNLAWFUL EXTENSION.
   In addition to the penalty cited in §
54.06, the City Superintendent shall cut off all water services to any lot,
tract, person, or entity from whose water service, water or services is being
provided another person, entity or premises, or has been extended in violation
of this subchapter, until the person removes the violative service, after which
the violator shall pay a reconnect fee to the city.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 54.08  APPEAL.
   Any person appearing aggrieved by any decision of the City Superintendent
may appeal his or her decision to the City Council, by placing the issue on the
agenda for the next available meeting, in accordance with the law of the State
of Texas as to notice, and his or her failure to do so within that time shall
make the decision of the City Superintendent final.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 5-9-1983)
WATER USE/SERVICE
§ 54.20  WATER METERS REQUIRED.
   All water hereafter furnished to the consumers in the city shall be measured
by meters installed and maintained by the city.
(Ord. 21-96, passed 12-9-1996; Am. Ord. 16-09, passed 12-14-2009; Am. Ord. 2-
12, passed 3-12- 2012)
§ 54.21  METER INSTALLATION.
   The Utilities Superintendent of the city is hereby authorized and directed
to install such meters on the property of the consumers where the meters may be
accessible for reading and repairs at all times, and shall prepare a record
card of such meter showing the number of the meter, and the address at which it
is installed, the date of the first reading, and he or she shall thereafter
read such meter at least once each month and furnish the City Clerk with a
record of each reading and the amount due from each consumer for that month. 
The City Clerk shall notify the consumer on a standard billing form of the
amount due for water between the meter reading dates.
(Ord. 21-96, passed 12-9-1996; Am. Ord. 5-08, passed 4-14-2008; Am. Ord. 16-09,
passed 12-14-2009; Am. Ord. 2-12, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 54.22  BILLS; WHEN PAYABLE.
   All bills shall be due and payable within ten days after the first of each
month.  If the bill is paid or postmarked by the tenth, the customer may pay
the net bill amount.  If the tenth falls on a holiday observed by the city
office or on a weekend, customers will be given the next full working day in
which to pay their bill.  If not paid on or before that date, the bill shall be
delinquent and the customer shall pay the gross bill amount.  A reminder will
be mailed to each customer on the delinquent list stating the date their water
is scheduled to be turned off.  This reminder is the final notice any customer
will receive from the city.  The City Administrator may order the water service
discontinued for non-payment of or delinquency of any part of the water,
refuse, or sewer bills.  In the event a consumer’s service is ordered
terminated by the City Administrator, then there shall be added to the
outstanding bill a charge of $20, which shall be paid in addition to the said
bill prior to the service being resumed.  This charge shall be added
notwithstanding the fact that the service may not actually be disconnected if
the service has been ordered terminated by the Utilities Superintendent.  If
the service has been disconnected and the customer desires service be restored
after normal working hours, which is between 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday
through Friday, an additional fee of $10 will be charged on the next bill.
(Ord. 5-08, passed 4-14-2008; Am. Ord. 16-09, passed 12-14-2009; Am. Ord. 2-12,
passed 3-12- 2012)
§ 54.23  DEPOSIT.
   A deposit securing the prompt payment of water bills shall be made by each
consumer as follows:
   (A)   From business and commercial customers, the sum of $150 to secure the
payment of the water bills.
   (B)   From domestic residential consumers, the sum of $100.  A consumer
moving his or her residence within the city may transfer his or her deposit to
his or her new residence by paying any delinquent amount due and a transfer fee
of $10.  Should the service be currently disconnected for nonpayment of city
bills, the city shall apply the deposit to the outstanding balance.  In this
event, the consumer shall make a new deposit before obtaining water service to
the new address.
   (C)   From apartments, duplexes, or other multi-family dwellings wherein
there is more than one household, living unit, or apartment, all utilizing one
meter, the deposit shall be equal to the largest estimated monthly water bill,
but in no case shall it be less than an amount equal to the minimum charge per
billing period times the total number of living units, households, or
apartments in the project or complex.
   (D)   If any water service is ordered terminated for nonpayment of city
bills, and it is found that the deposit with the city is not in an amount
prescribed by this subchapter, then the service shall remain discontinued until
in addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the consumer deposits
with the City Secretary an amount equal to the deposit that would be required
of a new consumer as of the date of the termination of service, or an amount
determined by the City Administrator, to be sufficient to secure the payment of
the water bills.
   (E)   Each consumer who has made a deposit in accordance with the
requirement of this subchapter shall not be paid any interest on this deposit.
(Ord. 21-96, passed 12-9-1996; Am. Ord. 5-08, passed 4-14-2008; Am. Ord. 16-09,
passed 12-14-2009; Am. Ord. 2-12, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 54.24  RATES.
   (A)   The rates to be charged for water furnished by the City of Wake
Village, Texas shall be computed as follows:
   (B)   (1)   Residential consumers within the city.
 
Quantity Used/Minimum                     Rate
The minimum bill shall be $10.50 per month, for which 2,000 gallons shall be
allowed.
   For the next 3,000 gallons per month$4.75 per thousand gallons
   For the next 5,000 gallons per month$4.50 per thousand gallons
   For the next 20,000 gallons per mont$3.00 per thousand gallons
   For all over 30,000 gallons per mont$2.75 per thousand gallons
 
      (2)   Residential consumer outside the City of Wake Village and
Texarkana, Texas.
 
Quantity Used/Minimum                     Rate
The minimum bill shall be $11.50 per month, for which 2,000 gallons shall be
allowed.
   For the next 3,000 gallons per month$4.85 per thousand gallons
   For the next 5,000 gallons per month$4.60 per thousand gallons
   For the next 20,000 gallons per mont$3.10 per thousand gallons
   For all over 30,000 gallons per mont$2.85 per thousand gallons
 
      (3)   Rates to match Texarkana rates.  Water rates for residents of the
City of Texarkana, Texas, shall be in accordance with the rates set by
Texarkana, Texas, if higher than those charged by the City of Wake Village,
Texas, for its residents.
      (4)   Multiple units per meter; less than four.  Where there is a single
meter serving several apartments, living units, or households, but less than
four, the rates to be charged shall be divided by the number of units and the
rates shall be applied to each unit as though each unit had individually used
an equal pro rata share of the water.  The total of the individual bills or
computed charges shall be added together, and one bill per meter will be mailed
to the person responsible for paying the water bill.  Regardless of the amount
of water used in the billing period, there will be charged at least the minimum
charge for each unit.
      (5)   Four or more units per meter.
         (a)   Where there is a single meter serving several households,
apartments, or living units, at least four or more, the total bill shall be
computed as follows:
            1.   Total monthly consumption divided by the number of apartment
units equals the average consumption per unit. The water bill will be based on
the residential rate for average consumption per unit multiplied by the number
of units multiplied by .90.
            2.   Example: monthly reading = 299,000 gallons; number of units =
54; average consumption per unit - 299,000 divided by 54 = 5,537 gallons (round
off above 500 to next 1,000 gallons; round off below 500 to same number of
1,000 gallons).
            3.   Six thousand gallons equals average consumption per unit:
residential rate for 6,000 gallons = $29.25; water bill equals 54 x $29.25 x
.90 = $1,421.55.
         (b)   One bill per meter will be mailed to the person responsible for
paying the water bill.  Regardless of the amount of water used in the billing
period, there will be charged at least the minimum charge for the number of
units presumed occupied (90%).
   (C)   (1)   Commercial rates within the city.  The rates to be charged
commercial consumers within the corporate limits of the city for water
furnished by the City of Wake Village, Texas, shall be computed as follows:
 
Quantity Used/Minimum                      Rate
The minimum bill shall be $11.50 per month, for which 2,000 gallons shall be
allowed.
   For the next 3,000 gallons per month,$5.05 per thousand gallons
   For the next 5,000 gallons per month,$4.80 per thousand gallons
   For the next 20,000 gallons per month$3.30 per thousand gallons
   For the next 70,000 gallons per month$3.05 per thousand gallons
   For all over 100,000 gallons per mont$2.80 per thousand gallons
 
      (2)   Rates to match Texarkana rates.  The rates to be charged commercial
consumers within the City of Texarkana, Texas, for water furnished by the City
of Wake Village, Texas, shall be in accordance with the rates set by Texarkana,
Texas, if higher than those charged by the City of Wake Village, Texas, for its
commercial customers.
      (3)   Standby fire protection service rates. The rates to be charged
commercial consumers for water furnished for standby fire protection service
shall be computed as follows:
 
                                     $.015 per sprinkler head per month,
                                     payable quarterly, except that systems
Fire sprinkler heads                 having less than 200 heads shall be
                                     charged a minimum of $3 per month payable
                                     quarterly
Inside hose rack connections         $1.50 per connection per month, payable
                                     quarterly
Siamese (dual) two and one-half inch $3 per pair of connections per month,
connections                          payable quarterly
Fire hydrants                        $3 each per month, payable quarterly
The maximum monthly charge for treated water furnished to a customer’s fire
protection system, cumulating the total charges based on the rates in this
schedule, shall be $100 payable quarterly.
 
(Ord. 21-96, passed 12-9-1996; Ord. 15-03, passed 12-8-2004; Am. Ord. 5-08,
passed 4-14-2008; Am. Ord. 16-09, passed 12-14-2009; Am. Ord. 2-12, passed 3-
12-2012)
§ 54.25  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter, and all of its sections, and the rates set in §
54.24 shall be effective with the billing for the month of March 2012, and
shall continue until modified by the City Council of the city.
(Ord. 21-96, passed 12-9-1996; Am. Ord. 15-03, passed 12-8-2004; Am. Ord. 5-08,
passed 4-14-2008; Am. Ord. 16-09 passed 12-14-2009; Am. Ord. 2-12, passed 3-12-
2012)
DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
§ 54.40  DECLARATION OF POLICY, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   In order to conserve the available water supply and protect the integrity of
water supply facilities, with particular regard for domestic water use,
sanitation, and fire protection, and to protect and preserve public health,
welfare, and safety and minimize the adverse impacts of water supply shortage
or other water supply emergency conditions, the City of Wake Village hereby
adopts the following regulations and restrictions on the delivery and
consumption of water. Water uses regulated or prohibited under this Drought
Contingency Plan (the Plan) are considered to be nonessential and continuation
of such uses during times of water shortage or other emergency water supply
condition are deemed to constitute a waste of water which subjects the offender
(s) to penalties as defined herein.
(Ord. 9-10, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 54.41  PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   Opportunity for the public to receive information regarding the plan will be
provided by the city by providing copies of the Plan at city offices.
(Ord. 9-10, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 54.42  PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The city will periodically provide the public with information about the
Plan, including information about the conditions under which each stage of the
Plan is to be initiated or terminated and the drought response measures to be
implemented in each stage. This information will be provided by means of
mailouts.
(Ord. 9-10, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 54.43  COORDINATION WITH REGIONAL WATER PLANNING GROUPS.
   The service area of the city is located within the Region D Regional Water
Planning Group and the city will provide a copy of this Plan to the Region D
Regional Water Planning Group.
(Ord. 9-10, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 54.44  AUTHORIZATION.
   The City Administrator or his/her designee is hereby authorized and directed
to implement the applicable provisions of this Plan upon determination that
such implementation is necessary to protect public health, safety, and welfare.
The City Administrator or his/her designee shall have the authority to initiate
or terminate drought or other water supply emergency response measures as
described in this Plan.
(Ord. 9-10, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 54.45  APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this Plan shall apply to all persons, customers, and
property utilizing water provided by the city. The terms PERSON and CUSTOMER as
used in the Plan include individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
and all other legal entities.
(Ord. 9-10, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 54.46  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE.  Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such
as fountains, reflecting pools, and water gardens.
   COMMERCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE.  Water use which is integral to the
operations of commercial and non-profit establishments and governmental
entities such as retail establishments, hotels and motels, restaurants, and
office buildings.
   CONSERVATION.  Those practices, techniques, and technologies that reduce the
consumption of water, reduce the loss or waste of water, improve the efficiency
in the use of water or increase the recycling and reuse of water so that a
supply is conserved and made available for future or alternative uses.
   CUSTOMER.  Any person, company, or organization using water supplied by the
city.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE.  Water use for personal needs or for household or
sanitary purposes such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation, or
for cleaning a residence, business, industry, or institution.
   LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION USE.  Water used for the irrigation and maintenance of
landscaped areas, whether publicly or privately owned, including residential
and commercial lawns, gardens, golf courses, parks, and rights-of-way and
medians.
   NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE.  Water uses that are not essential nor required for
the protection of public, health, safety, and welfare, including:
      (1)   Irrigation of landscape areas, including parks, athletic fields,
and golf courses, except otherwise provided under this Plan;
      (2)   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat, trailer,
airplane or other vehicle;
      (3)   Use of water to wash down any sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts, or other hard-surfaced areas;
      (4)   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for purposes
other than immediate fire protection;
      (5)   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in any
gutter or street;
      (6)   Use of water to fill, refill, or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools or jacuzzi-type pools;
      (7)   Use of water in a fountain or pond for aesthetic or scenic purposes
except where necessary to support aquatic life;
      (8)   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a reasonable period
after having been given notice directing the repair of such leak(s); and
      (9)   Use of water from hydrants for construction purposes or any other
purposes other than fire fighting.
(Ord. 9-10, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 54.47  CRITERIA FOR INITIATION AND TERMINATION OF DROUGHT RESPONSE STAGES.
   The City Administrator or his/her designee shall monitor water supply and/or
demand conditions on a monthly basis and shall determine when conditions
warrant initiation or termination of each stage of the Plan, that is, when the
specified triggers are reached.
   (A)   Stage 1 triggers; mild water shortage conditions.
      (1)   Requirements for initiation.  Customers shall be requested to
voluntarily conserve water and adhere to the prescribed restrictions on certain
water uses, defined in §
54.46, when the city determines the need for the initiation of stage 1 of the
Drought Contingency Plan.
      (2)   Requirements for termination.  Stage 1 of the Plan may be rescinded
when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for
a period of three consecutive days.
   (B)   Stage 2 triggers; moderate water shortage conditions.
      (1)   Requirements for initiation.  Customers shall be required to comply
with the requirements and restrictions on certain nonessential water uses
provided in §
54.48 when the city determines the need for the initiation of Stage 2 of the
Drought Contingency Plan.
      (2)   Requirements for termination.  Stage 2 of the Plan may be rescinded
when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for
a period of three consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 2, Stage 1
becomes operative.
   (C)   Stage 3 triggers; severe water shortage conditions.
      (1)   Requirements for initiation.  Customers shall be required to comply
with the requirements and restrictions on certain nonessential water uses for
Stage 3 of this Plan when the city determines the need for the initiation of
Stage 3 of the Drought Contingency Plan.
      (2)   Requirements for termination.  Stage 3 of the Plan may be rescinded
when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for
a period of three consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 3, Stage 2
becomes operative.
(Ord. 9-10, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 54.48  DROUGHT RESPONSE STAGES.
   The City Administrator, or his/her designee, shall monitor water supply and/
or demand conditions on a daily basis and, in accordance with the triggering
criteria set forth in §
54.47, shall determine that a mild, moderate, or severe emergency or water
shortage condition exists and shall implement the following notification
procedures.
   (A)   Notification.
      (1)   Notification of the public.  The City Administrator or his/ her
designee shall notify the public by means of publication in a newspaper of
general circulation.
      (2)   Additional notification.  The City Administrator or his/ her
designee shall notify directly, or cause to be notified directly, the Mayor and
members of the City Council.
   (B)   Stage 1 response; mild water shortage conditions. Target: achieve a
voluntary 5% reduction in total water use.
      (1)   Best management practices for supply management. Reduced or
discontinued flushing of water mains.
      (2)   Voluntary water use restrictions for reducing demand.
         (a)   Water customers are requested to voluntarily limit the
irrigation of landscaped areas to Sundays and Thursdays for customers with a
street address ending in an even number (0, 2, 4, 6 or 8), and Saturdays and
Wednesdays for water customers with a street address ending in an odd number
(1, 3, 5, 7 or 9), and to irrigate landscapes only between the hours of
midnight and 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. to midnight on designated watering days.
         (b)   All operations of the city shall adhere to water use
restrictions prescribed for Stage 2 of the Plan.
         (c)   Water customers are requested to practice water conservation and
to minimize or discontinue water use for non-essential purposes.
   (C)   Stage 2 response; moderate water shortage conditions.  Target: Achieve
a 7.5% reduction in total water use.
      (1)   Best management practices for supply management.  Reduced or
discontinued flushing of water mains and reduced or discontinued irrigation of
public landscaped areas.
      (2)   Water use restrictions for demand reduction.  Under threat of
penalty for violation, the following water use restrictions shall apply to all
persons.
         (a)   Irrigation of landscaped areas with hose-end sprinklers or
automatic irrigation systems shall be limited to Sundays and Thursdays for
customers with a street address ending in an even number (0, 2, 4, 6 or 8), and
Saturdays and Wednesdays for water customers with a street address ending in an
odd number (1, 3, 5, 7 or 9), and irrigation of landscaped areas is further
limited to the hours of 12:00 midnight until 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m.
and 12:00 midnight on designated watering days. However, irrigation of
landscaped areas is permitted at anytime if it is by means of a hand-held hose,
a faucet filled bucket or watering can of five gallons or less, or drip
irrigation system.
         (b)   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle is prohibited except on designated watering
days between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m.
and 12:00 midnight. Such washing, when allowed, shall be done with a hand-held
bucket or a hand-held hose equipped with a positive shutoff nozzle for quick
rises. Vehicle washing may be done at any time on the immediate premises of a
commercial car wash or commercial service station. Further, such washing may be
exempted from these regulations if the health, safety, and welfare of the
public is contingent upon frequent vehicle cleansing, such as garbage trucks
and vehicles used to transport food and perishables.
         (c)   Use of water to fill, refill, or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools, wading pools, or Jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited except on
designated watering days between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. and
between 8 p.m. and 12:00 midnight.
         (d)   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a recirculation system.
         (e)   Use of water from hydrants shall be limited to fire fighting,
related activities, or other activities necessary to maintain public health,
safety, and welfare, except that use of water from designated fire hydrants for
construction purposes may be allowed under special permit from the city.
         (f)   All restaurants are prohibited from serving water to patrons
except upon request of the patron.
         (g)   The following uses of water are defined as non-essential and are
prohibited:
            1.   Wash down of any sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots,
tennis courts, or other hard-surfaced areas;
            2.   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for purposes
other than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Use of water for dust control;
            4.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street; and
            5.   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a reasonable
period after having been given notice directing the repair of such leak(s).
   (D)   Stage 3 response; severe water shortage conditions.  Target: Achieve a
10% reduction in total water use.
      (1)   Best management practices for supply management.  Reduced or
discontinued flushing of water mains and reduced or discontinued irrigation of
public landscaped areas. Discontinued use of water for construction purposes.
      (2)   Water use restrictions for demand reduction.  All requirements of
Stage 2 shall remain in effect during Stage 3 except:
         (a)   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to designated
watering days between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. and between 8
p.m. and 12:00 midnight and shall be by means of hand-held hoses, hand-held
buckets, drip irrigation, or permanently installed automatic sprinkler system
only. The use of hose-end sprinklers is prohibited at all times; and
         (b)   The use of water for construction purposes from designated fire
hydrants under special permit is to be discontinued.
(Ord. 9-10, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 54.49  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally allow the use of water from
the city for residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, governmental,
or any other purpose in a manner contrary to any provision of this Plan, or in
an amount in excess of that permitted by the drought response stage in effect
at the time pursuant to action taken by City Administrator, or his/her
designee, in accordance with provisions of this Plan.
   (B)   Any person who violates this Plan the City Administrator shall, upon
due notice to the customer, be authorized to discontinue water service to the
premises where such violations occur. Services discontinued under such
circumstances shall be restored only upon payment of a re-connection charge,
hereby established at $20, and any other costs incurred by the city in
discontinuing service. In addition, suitable assurance must be given to the
City Administrator that the same action shall not be repeated while the Plan is
in effect.  Compliance with this plan may also be sought through injunctive
relief in the district court.
(Ord. 9-10, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or entity who omits or refuses to comply with §§
54.01 through
54.08, in any part, or participates in the violation hereof, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, punishable by the Municipal Court of Wake Village, Texas, and
upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200.  Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense hereunder.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 5-9-1983)
CHAPTER 55:  SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
Sewer Connections
   
55.01   Connections to city sewer required
   
55.02   Tap fees for sewer mains
   
55.03   No extension without permit
   
55.04   Tap to be made by builder
   
55.05   Violations
   
55.06   Service cutoff to unlawful extensions
   
55.07   Appeal
General Regulations
   
55.20   Sewer Use Ordinance, adopted
   
55.21   Sewer rates
   
55.22   Separate meter for nonsewage use
 
   
55.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Plumbing code, see
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances
   Sewage pretreatment per contract with Texarkana, see
TSO II
SEWER CONNECTIONS
§ 55.01  CONNECTIONS TO CITY SEWER REQUIRED.
   All residences, businesses and other producers of sewage within the City of
Wake Village, Texas, shall be connected to and use city-provided sewage
services.  This shall include but not be limited to residences and businesses. 
No septic tanks, sewage treatment plants, or other methods of disposing of or
treating sewage may be installed or used within the city limits, except after
application to and permit granted by the City Council, and then for no other
purpose, except as is granted by the City Council.
(Ord. 8-83, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 55.02  TAP FEES FOR SEWER MAINS.
   It shall be the duty of the builder, developer, and homeowner to deposit
with the City Secretary at the time a building permit is issued, the tap fees
for sewer mains, as follows:
   (A)   If the sewer mains and all lift stations and other special or required
equipment has been installed by a developer or previously installed by the
city, and no special tap fee has been determined by the City Council for the
lot or tract in issue, the sewer tap shall be $50.
   (B)   There will be no charge for a tap fee where a new service line is
connected to an existing service tap that was installed as the sewer main was
constructed.
   (C)   If the sewer mains have not been installed by a developer, or there is
any increased cost of sewer mains, lift stations or other special equipment to
the city to serve the lot or tract, or the city is bearing the cost of
installing the sewer mains and providing service to the user, the City Engineer
shall calculate the estimated cost of the service, along with the number and
identity of the potential lots to be served, and present that information along
with his or her recommendation to the City Council.  The City Council shall
consider the City Engineer’s recommendation, the desirability of serving the
user with sewer services, and the proposed cost to the user of obtaining
alternate methods of disposing of and treating sewage, and shall determine an
equitable amount of the cost to assess each lot or tract for its sewer tap
fee.  That determination shall be made by resolution of the City Council and
shall thereafter be the tap fee charged to the lot or tract for making the
sewer tap.
(Ord. 8-83, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 55.03  NO EXTENSION WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, entity, or owner of any lot or tract, connected to the
city-provided sewer service, shall extend or provide any sewer service from his
or her service without a permit properly issued under the ordinances of the
City of Wake Village.  No person, entity, or owner of any lot or tract shall
extend or provide any sewer service or connection to his or her sewer service
to any other user inside or outside of the city without the permission of the
City Council. 
   (B)   All existing sewer taps and extensions of services that have been
heretofore approved by the Mayor, City Council, or City Superintendent are
hereby approved by this City Council and shall not be violative of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 8-83, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 55.04  TAP TO BE MADE BY BUILDER.
   The builder, developer, or owner who desires the use of city provided sewer
services, shall notify the City Secretary and City Superintendent of his or her
requirement for a tap to the city sewer mains.  The sewer tap may be made by
the builder, with the permission of the City Superintendent and under the
instructions, inspections, and supervision of the City Superintendent.
(Ord. 8-83, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 55.05  VIOLATIONS.
   Any person or entity who omits or refuses to comply with this subchapter, in
any part, or participates in the violation hereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to the provisions of §
55.99.
(Ord. 8-83, passed 5-9-1983)  Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.06  SERVICE CUTOFF TO UNLAWFUL EXTENSIONS.
   In addition to the penalty in §
55.05, the City Superintendent shall cut off all water and sewer services to
any lot, tract, person or entity from whose sewer service, or connection
thereto is being provided another person, entity, or premises, or has been
extended in violation of this subchapter, until the person removes the
violative service, after which the violator shall pay a reconnect fee to the
city.
(Ord. 8-83, passed 5-9-1983)  Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.07  APPEAL.
   Any person appearing aggrieved by any decision of the City Superintendent
may appeal his or her decision to the City Council, by placing the issue on the
agenda for the next available meeting, in accordance with the law of the State
of Texas as to notice, and his or her failure to do so within that time shall
make the decision of the City Superintendent final.
(Ord. 8-83, passed 5-9-1983)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 55.20  SEWER USE ORDINANCE, ADOPTED.
   The sewer use ordinance attached to Ordinance 3-01 as Exhibit A is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.  Copies are available
through city offices.
(Ord. 3-01, passed 3-13-2001)
§ 55.21  SEWER RATES.
   (A)   A monthly fee of $21.25 per month shall be charged residential and
commercial customers inside the corporate city limits, and a monthly fee of
$22.25 per month shall be charged residential and commercial customers outside
the city.
   (B)   The sewer rate for persons residing inside the city limits of
Texarkana, Texas, will be the rate currently charged by the City of Texarkana,
Texas, to its residents.
   (C)   The sewer bill for apartments will be based on the single-family
residential rate per unit multiplied by the number of units multiplied by .90. 
   (D)   One bill per meter will be mailed to the person responsible for paying
the sewer bill.  The charge will be for the number of units presumed occupied
(90%).
   (E)   The rates in this section shall be effective with the billing for the
month of January 1, 2014 and shall continue until modified by the City Council
of the City of Wake Village, Texas.
(Ord. 14-84, passed 8-13-1984; Ord. 12-89, passed 7-24-1989; Ord. 20-91, passed
12-9-1991;  Ord. 6-92, passed 9-14-1992; Ord. 12-93, passed 9-13-1993; Ord. 21-
00, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. 14-03, passed 12-8-2004; Ord. 17-09, passed 12-14-
2009; Ord. 10-11, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 19-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 55.22  SEPARATE METER FOR NONSEWAGE USE.
   Anyone wishing to pay for a separate meter and tapping fee for a use which
does not produce sewage (such as lawn sprinklers) can do so and no sewage rates
will be applied to that particular meter reading.
(Ord. 3-84, passed 1-9-1984; Ord. 14-84, passed 8-13-1984)
§ 55.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or entity who omits or refuses to comply with §§
55.01 through
55.07, in any part, or participates in the violation hereof, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, punishable by the Municipal Court of Wake Village, Texas, and
upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200.  Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense hereunder.
(Ord. 8-83, passed 5-9-1983)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
Traffic Control Devices Generally
   
70.01   Conformance with state manual
   
70.02   Obedience of driver
   
70.03   Authorized emergency vehicle
   
70.04   Prohibited signs, signals, markings, or devices
   
70.05   Alteration of official signs, signals, or markings
   
70.06   Installation of signs, signals, and markings
   
70.07   Traffic Engineer alone authorized to install signs, signals, and
markings
Specific Regulations
   
70.20   Stop intersections
   
70.21   Speed in school zones
   
70.22   Speed limits in the city
   
70.23   Traffic circle
   
70.24   Prohibiting motor vehicles on private and public property
   
70.25   Driving over sidewalks
   
70.26   One-way streets
   
70.27   Use of hand-held mobile telephones in school zones
Truck Regulations
   
70.35   Through truck traffic
All-terrain Vehicle Regulations
   
70.50   Definitions
   
70.51   Operation of all-terrain vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Recreational vehicles in parks and ballfield, see
Chapter 96 of this code of ordinances
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES GENERALLY
§ 70.01  CONFORMANCE WITH STATE MANUAL.
   All traffic control devices including signs, signals and markings pavement
and/or curb installed or used for the purpose of directing and controlling
traffic within the City of Wake Village shall conform to the manual and
specifications which is adopted by the Texas Transportation Commission for a
uniform system of traffic control devices consistent with the laws of the State
of Texas and that correlates with and to the extent possible conforms to the
system approved by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Official.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transp. Code § 544.001
§ 70.02  OBEDIENCE OF DRIVER.
   The driver of any vehicle, motor vehicle, or animal shall obey the
instructions of any official traffic control device, sign, signal, or marking
applicable thereto placed in accordance with this section, the Manual and any
ordinance directing that the traffic control device, sign or signal shall be
installed or erected unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle permitted
by this subchapter.
(Ord. 6-76, passed 2-9-1976)
§ 70.03  AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, as the term authorized
emergency vehicle is defined by state law, when responding to an emergency call
or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, or when
responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may exercise the
privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the conditions herein
stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this subchapter or
any ordinance;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any vehicle in motion sounds audible signal by
bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and when the
vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of the vehicle, except that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a
police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light visible from in
front of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Ord. 6-76, passed 2-9-1976)
§ 70.04  PROHIBITED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS, OR DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway, street, or alley any unauthorized signs, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts or direct the
movement of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway, street, or alley any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways, streets, or alleys of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official
signs.
   (D)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, and the Chief of Police is hereby empowered to remove the
same or cause it to be moved without notice.
(Ord. 6-76, passed 2-9-1976)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05  ALTERATION OF OFFICIAL SIGNS, SIGNALS, OR MARKINGS.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device, sign
or signal or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or
insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
(Ord. 6-76, passed 2-9-1976)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06  INSTALLATION OF SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS.
   (A)   The City Council of the City of Wake Village shall by ordinance direct
that the Traffic Engineer or duly authorized representative shall have the duty
of erecting or installing upon, over, along, or beside any highway, street, or
alley signs, signals, and markings, or cause the same to be erected, installed,
or placed in accordance with this section and consistent with the manual.  The
traffic control devices shall be installed immediately, or as soon as the
specific device, sign, or signal can be procured.
   (B)   Whenever the Traffic Engineer has erected and installed any official
traffic control device, signal or sign at any location in the City of Wake
Village, or has caused the same to be done under his or her direction, in
obedience to this section, the Manual, or another ordinance directing the
erection of the device, signal, or sign shall thereafter file a report with the
City Secretary in writing and signed officially by the Traffic Engineer,
stating the type of traffic control device, sign, or signal, and when and where
the same was erected or installed.  The City Secretary Shall file and maintain
the report of the Traffic Engineer among the official papers of the office of
the City Secretary.
(Ord. 6-76, passed 2-9-1976)
§ 70.07  TRAFFIC ENGINEER ALONE AUTHORIZED TO INSTALL SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND
MARKINGS.
   It being unlawful for any person other than the Traffic Engineer, acting
pursuant to an ordinance of the city, to install or cause to be installed any
signal, sign, or device purporting to direct the use of the streets or the
activities on those streets of pedestrians, vehicles, motor vehicles, or
animals, proof, in any prosecution for a violation of this subchapter or any
traffic ordinance of the city, that any traffic control device, sign, signal,
or marking was actually in place on any street shall constitute prima facie
evidence that the same was installed by the Traffic Engineer pursuant to the
authority of this section and of the ordinance directing the installation of
the device, signal, or marking.
(Ord. 6-76, passed 2-9-1976)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.20  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The intersections designated in
Chapter 72, Schedule V are designated as stop intersections.  The Public Works
Department is directed to erect stop signs at the designated stop intersections
to control the traffic.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or a traffic
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk, shall stop
at a clearly marked stop line, or in the event there is no clearly marked stop
line, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersection roadway before entering the
intersection.
   (C)   All traffic required to stop above shall remain stopped until all
traffic on the intersecting street or roadway has passed and it is safe to
proceed into the intersection.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction in the Municipal Court of this city shall be
fined in any sum not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 1-96, passed 2-12-1996; Am. Ord. 4-09, passed 5-11-2009; Am. Ord. 10-09,
passed 9-14-2009; Am. Ord. 6-11, passed 8-8-2011)   Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21  SPEED IN SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   All streets adjacent to any public or private school are hereby
designated as school zones, for at least a distance of one block in each
direction from the school.  In addition, the areas listed in
Chapter 72, Schedule II are hereby designated as school zones.
   (B)    It is unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in a
designated school zone greater than that which is reasonable considering the
circumstances, to include weather, congestion, visibility and the presence of
children.  In addition, it is unlawful for vehicles to be operated in excess of
20 miles per hour in the designated and marked school zones, between the hours
of 7:30 a.m. and 8:30 a.m., and between the hours of 2:30 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. on
school days.
   (C)   The Chief of Police is hereby directed to place at the entrances to
the school zones, and in such school zones, such signs as have been approved by
the State of Texas, notifying drivers of vehicles of the maximum speed in the
area, and the time and days that the maximum speed law is in effect.
(Ord. 5-05, passed 6-20-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22  SPEED LIMITS IN THE CITY.
   Unless otherwise indicated in
Chapter 72, Schedule IV, it shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to drive
or operate a motor vehicle on the public streets within the incorporated limits
of the city at a greater rate of speed than 30 miles per hour.
(Ord. 1-48, passed 1-13-1948)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23  TRAFFIC CIRCLE.
   (A)   All traffic approaching, entering, traversing, or otherwise at or in
the intersection of Redwater Road and Burma Road in the city will be controlled
as follows:
      (1)   Traffic will flow around the traffic circle in a counter-clockwise
direction;
      (2)   Traffic already within the circle will have the right-of-way over
traffic entering the traffic circle; and
      (3)   Traffic approaching the intersection will yield and grant the
immediate use and right-of-way of the intersection and traffic circle to
vehicles already in the intersection or traffic circle, and will proceed only
when it may do so safely without interference or collision with traffic in the
circle or intersection.
   (B)   Yield signs, indicating the requirement that traffic approaching the
intersection yield to the traffic in the intersection will be placed facing the
entering streets at the corners of those streets with the traffic circle,
according to the plat attached to Ordinance 27-85 as Exhibit A.
   (C)   Traffic flow signs, consisting of arrows depicting the correct flow of
traffic, and “KEEP RIGHT” signs directing entering traffic around the traffic
circle will be erected on the circular median according to the plat attached to
Ordinance 27-85 as Exhibit A.
(Ord. 27-85, passed 10-14-1985)
§ 70.24  PROHIBITING MOTOR  VEHICLES ON PRIVATE AND PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   MOTOR VEHICLES shall include automobiles, trucks, motor homes,
trailers, motorbikes, motorcycles, minibikes, motor scooters, and all other
motor-driven machinery or conveyances.
   (B)   No motor vehicle shall be driven on any private property without the
permission of the owner, lessor, tenant or other person rightfully in charge,
or bearing the authority to allow the same.
   (C)   No motor vehicle shall be driven on non-traveled portions of public
parks, or any other public property, either owned by, rented to, or leased to
the City of Wake Village.  Motor vehicles may use roads, streets, or designated
parking areas only, and may not drive or park on play areas, baseball fields,
or other areas not intended to be used by motor vehicles.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to motor vehicles being used with the
permission of the city, to perform repairs, building, or other work that
necessitates the motor vehicle being driven on or over the public property.
(Ord. 15-75, passed 10-13-1975)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25  DRIVING OVER SIDEWALKS.
   After the passage of this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to
drive, operate or propel or cause to be driven, operated or propelled any motor
or other vehicle across sidewalks within the city limits of the City of Wake
Village, Texas; provided, however, this section shall not apply to persons
driving across sidewalks into their driveway, or into any business place where
there is a drive-in ramp servicing the place or places.
(Ord. 6-48, passed 9-17-1948)
§ 70.26  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Certain streets shall be one-way streets during certain hours, as set forth
in
Chapter 72, Schedule I.
(Ord. 8-73, passed 5-9-1973)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27  USE OF HAND-HELD MOBILE TELEPHONES IN SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   Use of a hand-held mobile telephone is prohibited while operating a
motor vehicle in a school zone, on official school days and during hours when
the school zone is in effect.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
apply:
      ENGAGING IN A CALL. Talking into, dialing or listening on a hand-held
mobile telephone, but shall not include holding a mobile telephone to activate
or deactivate such telephone.
      HAND-HELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile telephone with which a user engages
in a call using at least one hand (or prosthetic device or aid in the case of a
physically disabled person).
      HANDS-FREE MOBILE TELEPHONE. Mobile telephone that has an internal
feature or function, or that is equipped with an attachment or addition,
whether or not permanently part of such mobile telephone, which a user engages
in a call without the use of either hand (or prosthetic device or aid in the
case of a physically disabled person), whether or not the use of either hand
(or prosthetic devices) is necessary to activate, deactivate, or initiate a
function of such telephone.
      MOBILE TELEPHONE. The device used by subscriber and other users of
wireless telephone service to access such service and shall include personal
digital assistants.
      PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT. A device operated using a wireless
telecommunications service that provides for data communication other than by
voice.
      WIRELESS TELEPHONE SERVICE. Two-way real time voice telecommunications
service that is interconnected to a public switched telephone network commonly
referred to as cellular service or personal communication service.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided below, it shall be unlawful for a person
to drive or operate a motor vehicle in a school zone, on official school days,
during the hours when school zones are in effect, and when school zone signs
and signs prohibiting hand-held mobile telephone use are posted in place, while
using a hand-held mobile telephone to engage in a call or to create, send or
read message.
   (D)   An operator of a motor vehicle who holds a mobile telephone to, or in
the immediate proximity of his or her ear while such vehicle is in motion is
presumed to be engaging in a call within the meaning of this section. IMMEDIATE
PROXIMITY shall mean that distance as permits the operator of a mobile
telephone to hear telecommunications transmitted over such mobile telephone,
but shall not require physical contact with such operator's ear.
   (E)   Division (C) shall not apply to:
      (1)   The use of a mobile telephone for the sole purposes of
communicating with any of the following regarding an emergency situation: an
emergency response operator, a hospital, a physician's office or health clinic;
      (2)   Any law enforcement, public safety or police officers, emergency
services officials, first aid, emergency medical technicians and personnel, or
any fire safety officials in the performance of duties arising out of and in
the course of their employment as such; or
      (3)   The use of a hand-free mobile telephone when being used in a hands-
free manner.
   (F)   The violation of this section is a strict liability offense.
(Ord. 4-15, passed 7-13-2015)
TRUCK REGULATIONS
§ 70.35  THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   (1)   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means a motor vehicle, except a school
bus, the operator of which is required to possess a Class A or B Texas driver’s
license in accordance with Tex. Transportation Code, Chapter 522.
      (2)   (a)   A person commits an offense if he or she drives or operates a
commercial motor vehicle upon a public street in a residential area.
         (b)   RESIDENTIAL AREA, as used in this section, is defined to mean
any area where family dwelling units, homes, and apartments prevail in the
neighborhood or area, and where there is no commercial or industrial
establishment located in the area that regularly uses such vehicles in its
normal and usual course of business.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution hereunder if the
vehicle was being driven or operated to or from the place of employment of the
driver or to fulfill a local commercial obligation to a buyer or seller at a
given destination, evidenced by a bill of sale or invoice, and the route taken
was the shortest route along such public street in a residential area.
   (B)   The City Administrator is hereby authorized to post signs on any or
all public streets in residential areas to designate the prohibition of
commercial motor vehicles from such streets.
(Ord. 16-00, passed 10-10-2000)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Locations where truck traffic is prohibited, see
Chapter 72, Schedule III
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE REGULATIONS
§ 70.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle that is:
      (1)   Equipped with a saddle for the use of:
         (a)   The rider; and
         (b)   A passenger, if the motor vehicle is designed by the
manufacturer to transport a passenger;
      (2)   Designed to propel itself with two, three or four tires in contact
with the ground;
      (3)   Designed by the manufacturer for off-highway use by the operator
only; and
      (4)   Not designed by the manufacturer for farming or lawn care.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY.  Property owned or leased by the state or a political
subdivision of the state.
(Ord. 3-09, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 70.51  OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   A person may not operate an all-terrain vehicle on drainage ditches,
drainage easements, utility rights-of-way not situated on property owned by the
person operating the all-terrain vehicle and on public property except as
provided by this section.
   (B)   The operator of an all-terrain vehicle may drive the vehicle on a
drainage ditch, drainage easement, utility rights-of-way, and on public
property if:
      (1)   The transportation is in connection with utility work performed by
a utility;
      (2)   The operator attaches to the back of the vehicle on top of an
eight-foot-long pole a triangular orange flag;
      (3)   The vehicle’s headlights and taillights are illuminated; and
      (4)   The operator holds a driver’s license, as defined by Tex.
Transportation Code § 521.001.
   (C)   The Director of the Texas Department of Public Safety shall adopt
standards and specifications that apply to the color, size, and mounting
position of the flag required under divisions (B)(2) and (E)(2) of this
section.
   (D)   Except as provided in division (E), this section does not apply to the
operation of an all-terrain vehicle that is owned by the state, a county, or a
municipality by a person who is an authorized operator of the vehicle.
   (E)   A peace officer may operate an all-terrain vehicle on a drainage
ditch, drainage easement, utility right-of-way or public property only if:
      (1)   The transportation is in connection with the performance of the
officer’s official duty;
      (2)   The officer attaches to the back of the vehicle on top of an eight-
foot-long pole a triangular orange flag;
      (3)   The vehicle’s headlights and taillights are illuminated;
      (4)   The officer holds a driver’s license, as defined by Tex.
Transportation Code § 521.001; and
      (5)   The operation of the all-terrain vehicle does not exceed a distance
of 25 miles from the point of origin to the destination.
(Ord. 3-09, passed 4-13-2009)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this title an act is prohibited or is made or declared to
be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or wherever in this title the doing
of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful,
and no specific penalty is otherwise provided in this code of ordinances, the
violation shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, provided, however,
that no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same
or a similar offense of the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day a violation of this code or of any ordinance continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person violates a provision of §§
70.50 through
70.51.
   (D)   An offense under §§
70.50 through
70.51 is a Class C misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3-09, passed 4-13-2009; Am. Ord. 4-09, passed 5-11-2009; Am. Ord. 10-09,
passed 9-14-2009)
CHAPTER 71:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   No parking around fire plugs
   
71.02   Bus loading zones
Commercial Vehicle Regulations
   
71.15   Large trucks; parking in residential areas
   
71.16   Commercial vehicle parking in residential areas
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01  NO PARKING AROUND FIRE PLUGS.
   (A)   There shall be a no parking zone marked off with painted lines around
each fire plug within the corporate limits of the City of Wake Village, Texas,
a distance of six feet on each side of the hydrant, and a distance of eight
feet away from the plug in the street, provided where hydrant is on corner of
block then the distance be 12 feet, and there shall be a no parking zone marked
off with painted lines in front of the Fire Station in the City of Wake
Village, Texas, commencing on each side of the ramp leading into the station
and the street curb intersection and running into the street at 45-degree
angle, a distance of eight feet.
   (B)   Hereafter it shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor
or other vehicle to park same within the no parking space designated around
each fire hydrant and in front of the City Fire Station within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 8-50, passed 11-13-1950)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02  BUS LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The City Council establishes by this section a school bus loading zone
adjacent to the Wake Village Elementary School.  The school bus loading zone
shall be located on the southernmost side of Rozzell Avenue, as further
described in
Chapter 73, Schedule II, and as shown by the plat attached to Ordinance 1-82. 
The zone shall be prominently marked at each end, with signs indicating that no
parking shall be allowed between the signs and that it is a school bus loading
zone.
   (B)   No cars, trucks, or other vehicles shall be parked in the school bus
loading zone on school days, except for Bowie County school buses.
   (C)   Any unauthorized vehicle that is parked in the school bus loading zone
on a school day shall be in violation of this section, and on conviction for
such violation shall be subject to the provisions of §
70.99.  Each separate day or part of a day in excess of four hours that any
such vehicle is parked in the school zone shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (D)   The Police Department of the City of Wake Village, Texas is authorized
to order the removal and impoundment of any vehicle found parked in violation
of this section, by driving or ordering the towing of the vehicle.  After
removal, the Police Department shall take all reasonable means available to
ascertain the name and address of the owner of the vehicle and notify the owner
that the vehicle has been removed and impounded and the method of obtaining the
vehicle. No police officer, towtruck contractor or other towing contractor
shall be liable under this section, or by driving or towing the vehicle away. 
The owner and any other person claiming a right to ownership or possession to
the vehicle shall be required to pay all towing and impoundment fees in
addition to any fines assessed as a condition of obtaining possession of the
vehicle.  Any vehicle not claimed from impoundment for a period of ten days
shall be considered abandoned under the abandoned vehicle ordinances of this
city and statutes of this state and shall be subject to sale under those
ordinances and statutes.
(Ord. 1-82, passed 2-8-1982)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Junked and abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 93 of this code of ordinances
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE REGULATIONS
§ 71.15  LARGE TRUCKS; PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL AREA.  Any area, neighborhood, or street, where
dwelling units, homes, and apartments are the prevailing use, either by actual
utilization or zoning, in the area.
      (2)   VEHICLES OF ONE-TON SIZE.  Such vehicles as described by the Texas
Revised Civil Statutes denoting size of vehicles for licensing by the State
Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Regulations. 
      (1)   No vehicle exceeding one ton in size will be parked on the public
streets or rights-of-way of the city in a residential area, except for the
purpose of pickup and delivery of merchandise by the vehicle. 
      (2)   Any person who parks such a vehicle, or allows such a vehicle to be
or remain parked will be guilty of violating this section.
   (C)   Limitation of applicability.  This section will not apply to the
parking of otherwise prohibited vehicles, in front of business establishments,
that own or regularly utilize the vehicles in the course of their business.
(Ord. 14-87, passed 7-13-1987)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16  COMMERCIAL VEHICLE PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   COMMERCIAL VEHICLES, for the purpose of this section, shall include
all trucks and buses, except for pick-up trucks and vans not exceeding one-ton
capacity, and motor homes.
   (B)   No commercial vehicle shall be parked on any unpaved portion of any
right-of-way in the city, except for the temporary purpose of loading and
unloading, provided the time for unloading and loading shall be reasonable.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be parked at any place designated “No Parking” by
signs erected by the City Police Department.
   (D)   City vehicles are not subject to this section so long as they are
engaged in city activities or are parked on city-owned property.
   (E)   Each day a vehicle is parked in violation of this section shall be
deemed a separate violation. If the driver of a vehicle parked in violation of
this section cannot be ascertained, it shall be presumed that the owner is the
violator and the owner may be charged with the violation, for allowing his or
her vehicle to be so parked.
(Ord. 5-77, passed 5-9-1977)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   One-way streets
   
II.   School zones
   
III.   Truck routes
   
IV.   Speed limits
   
V.   Stop intersections
Cross-reference:
   Traffic circle, see §
70.23
SCHEDULE I.  ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
Street  Restriction Detail                                                    Ord. Date
                                                                              No.  Passed
Arizona From Midway Drive north to Redwater Road, during the hours of 2:30    8-73 5-9-
Avenue  p.m. to 3:30 p.m. on school days                                           1973
Wake    North portion of the “Y” at intersection with Burma Road, one-way 15-  8-22-
Avenue  southbound                                                            88   1988
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II.  SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   In addition to the areas described in §
70.21, the following areas are designated as school zones:
 
Location          Restriction              Ord. No.    Date Passed
                  From the intersection
Arizona Avenue    with Redwater Road to    5-05        6-20-2005
                  the intersection with
                  Burma Road
Burma Road        624 Burma Road to 823    9-88; 5-05  3-14-1988; 6-20-2005
                  Burma Road
                  From the intersection at
Memorial Drive to Wildcat Drive, to
Autumn Circle     Johnson Street from the  5-05        6-20-2005
                  intersection at Wildcat
                  Drive
                  From the intersection
Redwater Road     with McArthur to the     11-77; 5-05 7-11-1977; 6-20-2005
                  intersection with Piney
                  Street
 
   (B)   Speed restrictions for these areas are set forth in §
70.21 and
Chapter 72, Schedule IV.
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III.  TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   In addition to the general restrictions set forth in
Chapter 70, the following restrictions apply to through truck traffic.
   (B)   THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC shall be defined as traffic not originating on
the streets listed below and not ending on those streets, and shall not include
trucks belonging to residents living on those streets who are leaving or
returning to their homes or to trucks engaged in delivery or pickup services
from the residents on those streets.
   (C)   This schedule specifically prohibits the use of the streets listed
below as shortcuts or throughfares to traffic that otherwise would not use the
street for the purposes defined in division (A) above.
 
Street           Restriction   Ord. No. Date Passed
Guam Street      Entire street 11-75    8-11-1975
Shellwood Street Entire street 11-75    8-11-1975
 
   (D)   Trucks and truck traffic regulations. These regulations shall apply
for all explosive, corrosive, hazardous materials, and flammable liquid and gas
carriers and any vehicles required to display placards.
   (E)   There is hereby adopted that the following streets are hereby
designated as hazardous material truck routes, and the hazardous material truck
route designations are exclusive. Any carrier as herein defined in division (D)
above, shall use only those routes specified herein or additional temporary
routes as shall be established by City Council, either by written permission
upon application to deviate from the truck route, or by the posting of
temporary road signs during the period of temporary or alternate truck routing.
Any vehicle driven on any other streets than those herein designated, which are
controlled by these regulations, shall be deemed in violation of this section
and the driver thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as defined under the
traffic ordinances of Wake Village and the State of Texas.
   (F)   The following areas are designated truck routes:
 
Street             Ord. No. Date Passed
U.S. Highway 67    07-15    10-12-2015
Farm to Market 989 07-15    10-12-2015
Interstate 369     07-15    10-12-2015
 
   (G)   Parking. It shall be unlawful for any vehicle transporting hazardous
materials or substances to be parked within 1,000 feet of any school, church,
playground, park or other public area of the city; such vehicles may be parked
overnight only upon property adjoining a hazardous material truck route which
is not closer than 1,000 feet to any of the above described areas.
   (H)   Exceptions. The above carrier routes shall not apply to trucks
delivering to or returning from construction sites where it is not possible to
use a designated truck route, or to trucks delivering merchandise to or from
local businesses or local residences, or traveling to or from garages, if said
travel or delivery is made by the most direct route, and deviation from the
designated routes must be for legitimate business or work related purpose.
(Ord. 07-15, passed 10-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV.  SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to drive the
vehicle within this section in the direction stated at a speed in excess of the
following:
Street Direction Speed Limit (MPH) Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                 Direction       Speed Limit (MPH) Ord. No. Date Passed
Burma Road, from its
beginning at its
intersection with the  -               30                9-88     3-14-1988
traffic circle to the
intersection with Guam
Street
Burma Road, within the
school zone, on school -               20                9-88     3-14-1988
days when lights are
flashing
Carroll Street, from
its intersection with
Berry to its           Both directions 20                26-88    12-12-1988
intersection with
Redwater Road
Farm to Market Road
989, from the north
city limit to the      Southerly and   55                3-74     2-13-1974
south city limit, a    northerly
point 0.106 miles
south
FM 989, from the north
city limits to the     Southerly and   45                8-16     10-10-2016
south city limits,     northerly
0.469 miles
Hickerson, from its
beginning to its       Both directions 20                26-88    12-12-1988
intersection with
Carroll Street
Jeffrey Lane, from its
intersection with      both directions 20                4-89     3-13-1989
Westwood to its dead
end on Jeffrey Lane
Loop 151 (East
Frontage Road), from
south city limits      Northerly       50                2-80     1-14-1980
north for a distance
of 0.448 miles, the
north city limits
Loop 151 (West
Frontage Road), from
the north city limits  Southerly       50                2-80     1-14-1980
south for a distance
of 0.448 miles, the
south city limits
Redwater Road, from
its beginning at
intersection with the
Texas and Pacific
Railroad track (east
city limit) and ending
at south intersection
with traffic circle
intersection at Burma
Road; then beginning   -               40                11-77    7-11-1977
again at north
intersection with the
traffic circle
intersection with
Burma Road and
including all of
Redwater Road to its
intersection with
Kings Highway at Farm
to Market Road 989
Redwater Road within
the school zone,
between the hours of
7:30 a.m. and 9:00
a.m., and between 2:00 -               20                11-77    7-11-1977
p.m. and 4:00 p.m.,
Monday through Friday,
from August 15 through
June 1
Redwater Road and
Burma Road (the        -               20                11-77    7-11-1977
traffic circle)
Wake Village Road,
from intersection with
Guam to intersection   Both directions 40                3-83     3-14-1983
with Texas State
Highway 67
 
(Ord. 22-94, passed 9-12-1994; Ord. 8-16, passed 10-10-2016) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   School zones, see
Chapter 72, Schedule II
SCHEDULE V.  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Street Location Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street Location                  Direction                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Arizona at its intersection with Eastbound and westbound   1-96     2-12-1996
Burma Road
Arizona at its intersection with All                       4-09     5-11-2009
Hickam Drive
Arizona at its intersection with Northbound and southbound 1-96     2-12-1996
Redwater Road
Ashleigh Circle at its           Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with Brown
Autumn at its intersection with  Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Westwood
Berry at its intersection with   Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
FM 989
Bluebird at its intersection     Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Greenfield
Bluebird at its intersection     3 Way                     6-11     8-8-2011
with Greenfield
Bluebird at its intersection     Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Redwater Road
Brown Circle at its intersection Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Brown Drive
Brown Drive at its intersection  Eastbound and westbound   1-96     2-12-1996
with Edgewood Lane
Brown Drive at its intersection  All                       6-11     8-8-2011
with Loma Linda
Brown Drive at its intersection  Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Phillips Drive
Brown Drive at its intersection  Eastbound and westbound   1-96     2-12-1996
with Arizona Avenue
Candlewood at its intersection   Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Bluebird
Carroll at its intersection with Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Berry Drive
Carroll at its intersection with Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Redwater Road
Cavite at its intersection with  Northbound and southbound 1-96     2-12-1996
Redwater Road
Cavite Place at its intersection Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Macarthur
Central at its intersection with Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Redwater Road
Cody at its intersection with    Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Northwest Drive
Cody at its intersection with    Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Redwater Road
Dawn at its intersection with    Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Woodmont
Dawn St. at its intersection     Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Arizona Avenue
Diane at its intersection with   Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Cavite Place
Edgewood Lane at its             Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with Loma Linda
Elaine at its intersection with  Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Cavite Place
Ellen at its intersection with   Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Wake Village Road
Forestburg at its intersection   Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Woodbriar
Geneva at its intersection with  Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Cavite
Geneva Street at its             Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with Diane
Geneva Street at its             Northbound and southbound 1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with Elaine
Greenfield at its intersection   Eastbound and westbound   1-96     2-12-1996
with Arizona Avenue
Greenfield at its intersection   Eastbound and westbound   1-96     2-12-1996
with Piney
Greenfield Drive at its          Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with FM 989
Greenfield Drive at its
intersection with Loma Linda     Eastbound and westbound   1-96     2-12-1996
Street
Guam St. at its intersection     Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Arizona Avenue
Guam St. at its intersection     Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Burma Road
Guam St. at its intersection     All                       10-09    9-14-2009
with Hickam Drive
Hawkins at its intersection with Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Cavite Place
Hawkins at its intersection with Northwestbound            1-96     2-12-1996
Diane
Hickam at its intersection with  Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Guam Street
Hickam at its intersection with  Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Hawkins Street
Hickam at its intersection with  Northbound and southbound 1-96     2-12-1996
Redwater Road
Hickam Drive at its intersection Northbound and southbound 1-96     2-12-1996
with Arizona
Hickerson at its intersection    Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Carroll
Hildalgo Circle at its           Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with Lampassas Way
Horseshoe Drive at its
intersection with Bluebird       Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Street
Horseshoe Drive at its south
intersection with Bluebird       Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Street
Horseshoe Drive at its north
intersection with Bluebird       Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Street
Japonica at its intersection     Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Wake Village Road
Jeffrey Lane at its intersection Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Westwood
Johnson at its intersection with Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Redwater Road
Kelly at its intersection with   Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Arizona
Kelly at its intersection with   Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
MacArthur
Kimball at its intersection with Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Piney
Kimball Circle at its            Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with Kimball Drive
Kimball Drive at its             Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with Loma Linda
LaGrange at its intersection     Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with FM 989
Lampasas at its intersection     Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Presidio
Lampassas Way at its             Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with LaGrange Drive
Larkspur at its intersection     Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Eastline Road
Larkspur at its intersection     Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Westline Road
Loma Linda at its intersection   Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Mitchell Ryan
Loma Linda at its intersection   Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Redwater Road
Louise at its intersection with  Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Wake Village Road
MacArthur at its intersection    Eastbound and westbound   1-96     2-12-1996
with Burma Road
MacArthur at its intersection    Eastbound and westbound   1-96     2-12-1996
with Hickam Drive
MacArthur at its intersection    Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Redwater Road
Manila at its intersection with  Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Burma Road
Manila Drive at its intersection Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Arizona
Mariana at its intersection with Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Esther Street
Mariana at its intersection with Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Wake Village Road
Midway at its intersection with  Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Arizona
Midway at its intersection with  Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
MacArthur
Mimosa at its intersection with  Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Wake Village Road
Nevada Cr. at its intersection   Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Northwest Drive
North Wake Avenue at its         Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with Wake Avenue
Northcrest at its intersection   Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Loma Linda
Northcrest at its intersection   Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Village Lane
Northwest Drive at its           Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with Redwater Road
Parkview at its intersection     Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Shellwood
Parkview Lane at its             Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with Hwy. 67
Phillips at its intersection     Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Arizona
Piney at its intersection with   Northbound and southbound 1-96     2-12-1996
Brown Drive
Piney at its intersection with   Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Redwater Road
Pioneer at its intersection with Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Arizona
Quail Lane at its intersection   Eastbound and westbound   1-96     2-12-1996
with Eastline Road
Quail Lane at its intersection   Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with FM 989
Quail Lane at its intersection   Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Westline Road
Redwater Road at its             Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with FM 989
Rozzell at its intersection with Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Arizona
Rozzell at its intersection with Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Redwater Road
Shellwood at its intersection    Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Hwy 67
Shellwood at its intersection    3 Way                     1-12     2-13-2012
with Parkview
Singapore at its intersection    Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Arizona
Singapore at its intersection    Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Burma Road
Talisman at its intersection     Eastbound and westbound   1-96     2-12-1996
with Tiffany
Telka at its intersection with   Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
East Greenfield
Tiffany at its intersection with Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Mimosa
Tracey at its intersection with  Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Redwater Road
Trailwood at its intersection    Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Eastline Road
Trailwood at its intersection    Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Westline Road
Tropicana at its intersection    Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Tiffany
Tropicana at its intersection    Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Wake Village Road
Utah at its intersection with    Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
Northwest Drive
ValVerde at its intersection     Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with LaGrange
Victory at its intersection with Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Singapore
Village Lane at its intersection Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Brown Drive
Village Lane at its intersection Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Greenfield Drive
Wake Avenue at its intersection  Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Burma Road
Wake Avenue at its intersection  Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Victory
Wake Forest at its intersection  Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Forestburg
Wake Forest at its intersection  Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Redwater Road
Wake Village Road at its         Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with U.S Highway 67
West Pioneer Street at its
intersection with Greenfield     Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
Drive
West Pioneer Street at its
intersection with Loma Linda     Eastbound and westbound   1-96     2-12-1996
Street
Westline at its intersection     Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Pine Forest
Westline Crt at its intersection Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Eastline
Westpoint at its intersection    Eastbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Woodmont
Westwood at its intersection     Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
with Central Avenue
Westwood at its intersection     Eastbound and  westbound 1-96     2-12-1996
with Johnson Avenue
Whipoorwill at its intersection  Northbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Brown Drive
Woodbriar Way at its             Westbound                 1-96     2-12-1996
intersection with Wake Forest
Woodmont at its intersection     Southbound                1-96     2-12-1996
with Redwater Road
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking locations
   
II.   Restricted parking locations
SCHEDULE I.  NO PARKING LOCATIONS.
 
Street Location            Restriction                   Ord. No. Date Passed
                           No parking any time;
                           Each four-hour period a
Candlewood Drive           vehicle is parked in          17-88    8-22-1988
                           violation of this entry shall
                           constitute a separate
                           violation
Carroll Avenue, from
Redwater Road to the north No parking                    4-90     6-11-1990
entrance to King Park
                           No parking any time;
                           Each four-hour period a
Redwater Road              vehicle is parked in          17-97    7-28-1997
                           violation of this entry shall
                           constitute a separate
                           violation
 
Cross-reference:
   Junked and abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 93 of this code of ordinances
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II.  RESTRICTED PARKING LOCATIONS.
Street Location Restriction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street        Restriction                                                                 Ord. Date
Location                                                                                  No.  Passed
Bluebird
Lane, between
its
intersections No parking on either west or east side of the street                        4-78 3-13-
with Redwater                                                                                  1978
Road and with
Mockingbird
Lane
Carroll
Avenue        Except as restricted in                                                     4-90 6-11-
adjacent to   Ch. 73, Schedule I, parking limited to residents and their guests only           1990
King Park
Mockingbird   No vehicle parking on the north side                                        22-  10-11-
Lane          Each four-hour period a vehicle is parked in violation shall constitute a   76   1976
              separate violation
Mockingbird   No parking on the south side of Mockingbird Lane.
Lane from its
intersection
with Bluebird
Lane to a     If a vehicle is continually left parked, each successive hour that it is
point 60 feet left parked shall constitute a separate violation;
westerly from
the
intersection.
Momentary
stopping a
vehicle for
the entry or
discharge of
passengers,
or stopping   Any vehicle left parked in excess of three hours in violation may be
in response   ordered towed away and stored by any commissioned police officer of the          3-13-
to traffic    city. In the event the vehicle is towed away and stored, all the towing and 4-78 1978
control       storage expenses shall be charges to the owner of the vehicle and shall
devices or    constitute a lien on the vehicle;
the direction
of a police
officer shall
not be
considered
parking
              Any vehicle not reclaimed within three days of having been towed away and
              the last owner and/or lien holder notified,  shall constitute an abandoned
              vehicle, and shall be disposed of under
              Chapter 93 of this code of ordinances.
              Each separate violation shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $25
Rozzell
Avenue, from
42 feet from
the corner or
Rozzell
Avenue and
Arizona
Avenue, and   School bus loading zone; parking on school day prohibited;  each separate
extending     day or part of a day in excess of four hours that any such vehicle is       1-82 2-8-
west and      parked in the school zone shall constitute a separate violation                  1982
north around
Rozzell
Avenue,
adjacent to
school
property, for
additional 54
feet
                                                                                          7-   5-9-
Singapore     North side: parking limited to residents and guests only;                   73;  1973;
Drive                                                                                     3-90 6-11-
                                                                                               1990
              South side between the intersections of Burma Road and the west boundary of
              Vernon B. Green Ballpark: no parking;
              South side from the west boundary of Vernon B. Green Ballpark to the
              intersection of Victory Place:  limited to residents and guests only
Tracey Avenue Parking on west side prohibited                                             10-  4-26-
                                                                                          76   1976
 
Cross-reference:
   For hazardous materials routes, and parking, see
Chapter 72, Schedule III of this code of ordinances
   Junked and abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 93 of this code of ordinances
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND REGULATIONS
      
92.   NUISANCES, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
      
93.   JUNKED AND ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
94.   SMOKING PROHIBITIONS
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
      
96.   STREETS AND PARKS
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Exemptions
   
90.03   License fees; tags, kennel operation
   
90.04   Kennels
   
90.05   Confinement of dog on premises of owner
   
90.06   Confinement other than on premises of owner
   
90.07   Running at large
   
90.08   Barking and howling
   
90.09   Abandonment; condition of pen and premises
   
90.10   Restraint; criminal penalty
   
90.11   Rabies clinic
   
90.12   Licensing outside of rabies clinic; proof of vaccination
   
90.13   Revocation of license for dangerous or nuisance dog or cat
Livestock and Fowl
   
90.25   Definitions
   
90.26   Distance from buildings
   
90.27   Suitable enclosure
   
90.28   Running at large
   
90.29   Waste removal
Dangerous Animals
   
90.40   Requirements for owner of dangerous dog or dangerous animal
   
90.41   Determination that dog or animal is dangerous
   
90.42   Hearing
   
90.43   Registration
   
90.44   Attack by dangerous dog
   
90.45   Destruction of dog or dangerous animal
   
90.46   Violations
   
90.47   Defense
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.60   Animal Control Department
   
90.61   Impounding of dogs; destroying of dogs; release of animals
   
90.62   Reclaiming animals; fees
   
90.63   Rabies control
   
90.64   Notice of offenses and violations; arrest, duty and power of Animal
Control Department
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL.  a non-human, animate being which is endowed with the power of
voluntary motion.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.  A municipal or county animal control office with
authority over the area in which the dog is kept or the municipal police
department of the county sheriff’s office in an area that does not have an
animal control office.
   AT LARGE.  Any animal not confined as required in this chapter.
   CAT.  A member of the feline family normally considered to be the
domesticated type.
   COLLECTOR.  The City Revenue Collector, or his or her duly authorized agent.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  An animal that:
      (1)   Makes an unprovoked attack on a person that causes bodily injury
and occurs in a place other than an enclosure in which the animal was being
kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the animal from leaving the
enclosure on its own;
      (2)   Commits unprovoked acts in a place other than an enclosure in which
the animal was being kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the animal
from leaving the enclosure on its own and those acts cause a person to
reasonably believe that the animal will attack and cause bodily injury to that
person; or
      (3)   Commits unprovoked attacks in a place other than an enclosure in
which the animal is being kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the
animal from leaving the enclosure on its own and those acts result in an
injury, damage to, or death of another animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG.  A dog that:
      (1)   Makes an unprovoked attack on a person that causes bodily injury
and occurs in a place other than an enclosure in which the dog was being kept
and that was reasonably certain to prevent the dog from leaving the enclosure
on its own;
      (2)   Commits unprovoked acts in a place other than an enclosure in which
the dog was being kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the dog from
leaving the enclosure on its own and those acts cause a person to reasonably
believe that the dog will attack and cause bodily injury to that person; or
      (3)   Commits unprovoked attacks in a place other than an enclosure in
which the dog is being kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the dog
from leaving the enclosure on its own and those acts result in an injury,
damage to, or death of another dog or animal.
   DOGS.  Animals of all ages, both female and male, which are members of the
canine or dog family.
   ENCLOSURE.  A fenced area or structure that is:
      (1)   Locked;
      (2)   Capable of preventing the entry of the general public, including
children;
      (3)   Capable of preventing the escape or release of a dog; and
      (4)   In conformance with the requirements for an enclosure established
by the local animal control authority.
   EPIZOOTIC.  The occurrence in a given geographic area of population of cases
of a disease clearly in excess of the expected frequency.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES.  An animal which has been bitten by or been exposed to
any animal known to have been infected with rabies.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  The Police Chief of the city or his or her duly authorized
agent.
   KENNEL.  Any person, owning, keeping or harboring more than five adult dogs
or cats, for the business of breeding such animals for the sale of their
offspring shall be considered as owning a kennel requiring registration with
the city as herein provided.
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN.  A veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary
medicine in one or more of the 50 states.
   LIVESTOCK.  Animals in the equine, bovine, caprine, avian, ovine, or porcine
families.
   MUZZLE.  A device of appropriate material with sufficient strength to
restrain the dog from biting. No such muzzle shall be made from any material or
maintained on the dog in such a manner so as to not cut or injure the dog.
   OWNER.  Every person owning, keeping or harboring a dog within the city.
   PERSON.  An individual, group or groups of individuals, corporations or
other entities.
   QUARANTINE.  Strict confinement of any animal specified in an order of the
local rabies control authority or its designee:
      (1)   On the private premises of the animal’s owner or at a facility
approved by the local rabies control authority or its designee; and
      (2)   Under restraint by closed cage or paddock or in any other manner
approved by local rabies control authority rule.
   RABIES.  An acute viral disease of man and animal affecting the central
nervous system and usually transmitted by an animal bite.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE.  A fenced area or structure that is:
      (1)   Locked;
      (2)   Capable of preventing the entry of the general public, including
children;
      (3)   Capable of preventing the escape or release of a dog;
      (4)   Clearly marked as containing a dangerous dog; and
      (5)   In conformance with the requirements for an enclosure established
by the local animal control authority.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY.  An injury characterized by severe bite wounds or
severe ripping and tearing of muscle that would cause a reasonably prudent
person to seek treatment from a medical professional and would require
hospitalization without regard to whether the person actually sought medical
treatment.
   SPAYED FEMALE.  Any female animal which has been operated upon to prevent
conception.
   STRAY.  Roaming with no physical restraint beyond the premises of an
animal’s owner or keeper.
   VACCINATION.  An injection of any vaccine for rabies approved by the state
veterinarian and administered by a licensed veterinarian or agent of the health
officer.
   WILD ANIMALS.  Animals which are not normally recognized as domesticated
animals of any species.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.02  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Hospitals, clinics and other premises operated by licensed
veterinarians for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter, except where otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   The licensing requirements of this chapter shall not apply to any dog
belonging to a nonresident of the city and kept within the city for not longer
than 30 days, provided all such dogs shall at all times while in the city be
kept within a building or enclosure or vehicle or be confined by the owner as
herein provided.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.03  LICENSE FEES; TAGS; KENNEL OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, to own, keep or harbor a dog or
cat within the city without having first paid to the city, at City Hall, an
initial license fee of an amount as established by the City Council from time
to time for each dog or cat. The license fee required by this section shall be
due and payable as soon as the dog or cat attains three months of age and the
dog or cat receives a rabies vaccination as required herein.
   (B)   Upon payment of the license fee required by this section, it shall be
the duty of the city to furnish the owner of the dog with a metal tag of
distinctive design, on one side of which shall be stamped the words “City of
Wake Village” and the serial number of the dog or cat. Every dog or cat covered
by this chapter must have and wear a collar of such type that the city license
tag may be firmly attached to the collar. Such tag, when issued, shall at all
times be securely attached to the dog’s or cat’s collar or harness, and failure
to keep the tag on the dog’s or cat’s collar shall be unlawful.
   (C)   The license as referred to in this section shall be effective for the
year after its issuance and must be renewed in each subsequent year in the same
month it was originally issued. The fee for each annual renewal license shall
be paid to the City Secretary. Failure to renew a license in any year
subsequent to its initial issuance shall cause the license to lapse. The fee
for the issuance of a license as required by this division after the lapse of a
previously issued license shall be the same as that of an annual license. The
fees and fee schedule shall be prescribed by the City Council and shall be made
available at city hall.
   (D)   This license shall be nontransferable and must be returned to the
Animal Control Department or City Secretary upon the death of the dog.
   (E)   Every person, group of persons or corporation engaged in the
commercial business of buying, selling, breeding or boarding and who own,
harbor or keep five or more dogs in maintaining a kennel as defined in §
90.01 shall pay an annual fee to the collector in an amount as established by
the City Council.
   (F)   The owner may obtain a duplicate tag, if the tag is lost, by payment
of an amount as established by the City Council.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  KENNELS.
   Any person who operates a kennel, as defined in §
90.01, shall not only pay those fees that are required but in addition shall
maintain such animals in an enclosure as defined in §
90.01.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.05  CONFINEMENT OF DOG ON PREMISES OF OWNER.
   (A)   Any person owning, possessing or keeping animals, whether vaccinated
or unvaccinated, licensed or unlicensed, shall confine such animal within an
enclosure or within a house, garage or other building on the premises of the
owner.
   (B)   The confining of such animal by attaching one end of a chain, rope or
similar device to a collar or other device attached to the animal and attaching
the other end of the chain, rope or similar device to a fixed stationary object
is strictly prohibited.
   (C)   If any person is found to be in violation of this section, either by
the entering a plea of guilty or no contest or by final adjudication of any
court, the person shall be ordered to fully comply with this section within
five days of the disposition of the matter. If, after five days, the person
fails to confine the animal or animals in violation of this chapter, the Animal
Control Officer, or any law enforcement officer, of the city, upon the finding
of probable cause by the Municipal Judge, shall be authorized to seize and
detain the animal or animals. Such officer shall attempt to notify the person
of the seizure and detention by reasonable methods and the person shall be
summoned to court, within 14 days from the date of seizure of the animal or
animals, to determine at a hearing, the disposition of the animal or animals
and/or to face further penalties, fines, restrictions or the like.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.06  CONFINEMENT OTHER THAN ON PREMISES OF OWNER.
   At all times when not confined as stated in §
90.05, the owner of any animal shall confine such animal within an automobile
or by having one end of a rope or leash held by some person competent to
control such animal.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.07  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person owning, possessing or keeping an animal shall allow the same to
run at large within the city.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08  BARKING AND HOWLING.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep
on his or her premises or under his or her control any dog which by loud and
frequent barking and howling shall disturb the peace and quiet of any person
who may reside within reasonable proximity of the place where the dog is kept.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09  ABANDONMENT; CONDITION OF PEN AND PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any animal within the
city. Any person with the city desiring to in any way abandon an unwanted
animal may take such animal to the Animal Control Department and upon payment
of the required fee to the Animal Control Department or its assignee, and upon
relinquishment of ownership, full and complete authority is given the Animal
Control Department to make such disposition of the animal as the Animal Control
Department may deem satisfactory.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to board, own, harbor or keep more
than a total of either three adult dogs or cats within the city limits except
for the operation of a kennel. An adult dog or cat is defined as being three
months of age or older.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person keeping or harboring dogs or other
animals to fail to keep the premises where such dogs or other animals are kept
free from offensive odors and contagious disease to the extent that the odors
or contagious diseases are disturbing or a health threat to any person residing
within reasonable proximity of the premises.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to allow premises where such dogs or other
animals are kept to become unclean and a threat to the public health by failing
to diligently and systematically remove all animal waste from the premises.
   (E)   No animal or fowl of any kind shall be kept confined in any place
where water, shelter, ventilation and food are not sufficient and wholesome for
the preservation of their health, safe condition and wholesomeness.
   (F)   It shall be illegal for any person to keep or maintain within the
limits of this city any swine, goats, sheep or poultry under conditions which
are unsanitary, odorous or which constitute a nuisance, either public or
private.
   (G)   No animals in the equine, bovine, ratite, procine, or ovine families
shall be kept or maintained within the limits of this city in concentration of
more than one head per acre.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10  RESTRAINT; CRIMINAL PENALTY.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if:
      (1)   The person fails or refuses to restrain an animal owned by the
person; and
      (2)   The animal is required to be restrained under this chapter.
   (B)   An offense under this section is a Class C misdemeanor. Each day that
a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.11  RABIES CLINIC.
   Special days will be set aside by the city for a licensing and rabies
vaccination clinic.  Cost of rabies vaccination will be included in licensing
fee during rabies clinic only.  Any dog or cat being subject to §
90.03 shall be licensed immediately, by the owner, keeper, custodian, or other
person in possession or feeding or bringing the animal into the city,
notwithstanding the annual licensing set forth in §
90.03.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 90.12  LICENSING OUTSIDE OF RABIES CLINIC; PROOF OF VACCINATION.
   If a license is obtained at any other time, the person seeking the license
shall submit proof of rabies vaccination prior to being issued a license.  The
price of the license shall be the same, whether issued during the rabies
vaccination program or after.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 90.13  REVOCATION OF LICENSE FOR DANGEROUS OR NUISANCE DOG OR CAT.
   (A)   Any license issued in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter may be revoked if a dog or cat is found to be dangerous, or if the
dog or cat is found to continually make disturbing noises, so as to be a
nuisance to citizens of the city.  Complaints should be made to the animal
control officer or Wake Village Police Department. Determination will be made
by the Police Department whether to cite the owner or keeper to Municipal
Court, ticket the owner, or issue a warning that will be documented.  No animal
shall be disposed of if the owner or keeper’s identity is known or reasonably
capable of determination, without notice to the owner or keeper.  Any dog or
cat showing a propensity to bite, scratch or injure human beings or other
domestic animals shall be presumed dangerous under this subchapter.  If the
owner or keeper shall refuse to remove the animal, the animal shall be picked
up by the animal control or any other person designated by the Municipal
Judge.  The Municipal Judge shall have the power to summons witnesses,
administer oaths, and take testimony in municipal court cases.
   (B)   The animal or animals shall be transported to the Texarkana Animal
Shelter as they are collected.  A five-day hold will be placed on animals,
other than those which are obviously unhealthy or dangerous, giving the owner
or keeper a five-day timeframe to claim his or her animal.  After the five-day
holding period, the Texarkana Animal Shelter shall have sole authority of the
animals.
   (C)   All fees due the city for collection and processing must be paid to
the city before any claimed animal/animals are released from the Texarkana
Animal Shelter to the owner or keeper.  In a case where the rabies vaccination
cannot be proven, the owner or keeper must contact a licensed veterinarian to
administer the vaccine.  The city will allow the animal released to the owner
or keeper who shall take the animal directly to the veterinarian and then bring
the proof of rabies vaccine to Wake Village City Hall the same day, at which
time the owner or keeper will purchase a license and pay any fees due the city.
Any owner or keeper failing to meet these requirements will be cited to
Municipal Court for failure to comply with this section.  A remedy for delay of
these requirements is a signed and dated statement from a licensed veterinarian
with acceptable reasoning, such as age of the animal or a medical condition.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 10-11-2004)  Penalty, see §
90.99
LIVESTOCK AND FOWL
§ 90.25  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIVESTOCK.  As used in this subchapter, means animals in the equine, bovine,
caprine, avian, ovine, or porcine families.
(Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 90.26  DISTANCE FROM BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to raise, keep, pen, harbor, stake,
picket, pasture, or graze any livestock or domestic fowl, or the young of any
livestock or domestic fowl, upon any premises within 500 feet from any
residential building, or of any hotel, church, school or store, or any other
building frequented or inhabited by human beings within the city. This
subchapter shall not apply to any person operating a commercial hatchery.
(Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27  SUITABLE ENCLOSURE.
   Any livestock or domestic fowl permitted to be kept by the terms of this
subchapter shall be kept in a suitable pen or enclosure, which shall be
maintained and kept in a manner as not to become unsanitary, offensive, or
disagreeable to persons residing in the vicinity thereof, nor shall they be so
maintained or kept as to breed flies, or in any manner cause any injury to the
health of the public or any person residing in the vicinity of the pen or
enclosure.
(Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any livestock to run or be at
large within the city, or to stake any livestock.
(Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29  WASTE REMOVAL.
   Any owner, keeper, or person having livestock shall remove all manure and
other animal waste from the pen, stable, shed, or enclosure at least once each
day.  This waste and manure shall be deposited in a storage bin or metal
container and shall be provided with a fly-tight lid.  The manure and other
animal waste shall be removed from the bin or container to a disposal site
approved by the officer of the Health Department.
(Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
90.99
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 90.40  REQUIREMENTS FOR OWNER OF DANGEROUS DOG OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   Not later than the thirtieth day after a person learns that the person
is the owner of a dangerous dog, the person shall:
      (1)   Register the dangerous dog with the animal control authority for
the area in which the dog is kept;
      (2)   Restrain the dangerous dog at all times on a leash in the immediate
control of a person or in a secure enclosure; and
      (3)   Obtain liability insurance coverage or show financial
responsibility in an amount of at least $100,000 to cover damages resulting
from an attack by the dangerous dog or dangerous animal causing bodily injury
to a person and provide proof of the required liability insurance coverage or
financial responsibility to the animal control authority for the area in which
the dog or animal is kept.
   (B)   The owner of a dangerous dog or dangerous animal who does not comply
with division (A) of this section shall deliver the dog or animal to the animal
control authority not later than the thirtieth day after the owner learns that
the dog or animal is a dangerous dog or animal.
   (C)   If, on application of any person or upon a finding by the municipal
court, after notice and hearing as provided by §
90.42, that the owner of a dangerous dog or dangerous animal has failed to
comply with division (A) or (B) of this section, the court shall order the
animal control authority to seize the dog and shall issue a warrant authorizing
the seizure. The authority shall seize the dog or order it seizure and shall
provide for the impoundment of the dog in secure and humane conditions.
   (D)   The owner shall pay any cost or fee assessed by the municipality
related to the seizure, acceptance, impoundment, or destruction of the dog or
animal. The fees shall be prescribed by the City Council and shall be made
available at City Hall.
   (E)   The court shall order the animal control authority to humanely destroy
the dog or animal if the owner has not complied with division (A) of this
section before the eleventh day after the date on which the dog or animal is
seized or delivered to the authority. The court shall order the authority to
return the dog or animal to the owner if the owner complies with division (A)
of this section before the eleventh day after the date on which the dog or
animal is seized or delivered to the authority.
   (F)   The court may order the humane destruction of a dog or animal if the
owner of the dog or animal has not been located before the fifteenth day after
the seizure and impoundment of the dog or animal.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, a person learns that the person is the
owner of a dangerous dog or animal when:
      (1)   The owner knows of an attack described in §
90.01;
      (2)   The owner receives notice that the municipal court has found that
the dog or animal is a dangerous dog or dangerous animal at the hearing
hereinafter provided; or
      (3)   The owner is informed by the animal control authority that the dog
is a dangerous dog or animal is a dangerous animal as described in §
90.41.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.41  DETERMINATION THAT DOG OR ANIMAL IS DANGEROUS.
   (A)   If a person reports an incident described by “dangerous dog”, or
“dangerous animal”, as defined in §
90.01, the animal control authority may investigate the incident. If, after
receiving the sworn statements of any witnesses, the animal control authority
determines the dog or animal is a dangerous dog or dangerous animal, it shall
notify the owner of that fact.
   (B)   An owner, not later than the fifteenth day after the date the owner is
notified that a dog or animal owned by the owner is a dangerous dog or
dangerous animal, may appeal the determination of the animal control authority
to the municipal court. An owner may appeal the decision of the municipal court
in the same manner as appeal for other cases from the municipal court.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.42  HEARING.
   (A)   The court, on receiving a report of an incident under §
90.40 or an application under §
90.40 shall set a time for a hearing to determine whether the dog or animal is
a dangerous dog or dangerous animal or whether the owner of the dog or animal
has complied with §
90.40. The hearing must be held not later than the tenth day after the date on
which the dog is seized or delivered.
   (B)   The court shall give written notice of the time and place of the
hearing to:
      (1)   The owner of the dog or animal or the person from whom the dog or
animal was seized; and
      (2)   The person who made the complaint.
   (C)   Any interested party, including the City Attorney, is entitled to
present evidence at the hearing.
   (D)   An owner or person filing the action may appeal the decision of the
Municipal Court in the manner provided for the appeal of cases from the
Municipal Court.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.43  REGISTRATION.
   (A)   An animal control authority for the area in which the dog is kept
shall annually register a dangerous dog if the owner:
      (1)   Presents proof of:
         (a)   Liability insurance or financial responsibility, as required by
§
90.40;
         (b)   Current rabies vaccination of the dangerous dog or dangerous
animal; and
         (c)   The secure enclosure in which the dangerous dog or dangerous
animal will be kept; and
      (2)   Pays an annual registration fee as determined by City Council.
   (B)   The animal control authority shall provide to the owner registering a
dangerous dog or dangerous animal a registration tag. The owner must place the
tag on the dog’s or animal’s collar.
   (C)   If an owner of a registered dangerous dog or dangerous animal sells or
moves the dog or animal to a new address, the owner, not later than the
fourteenth day after the date of the sale or move, shall notify the animal
control authority for the area in which the new address is located. On
presentation by the current owner of the dangerous dog’s or dangerous animal’s
prior registration tag and payment of a fee as determined by City Council, the
animal control authority shall issue a new registration tag to be placed on the
dangerous dog’s or dangerous animal’s collar.
   (D)   An owner of a registered dangerous dog or dangerous animal shall
notify the office in which the dangerous dog or dangerous animal was registered
of any attacks the dangerous dog or dangerous animal makes on people.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.44  ATTACK BY DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person is the owner of a dangerous
dog or dangerous animal and the dog or animal makes an unprovoked attack on
another person outside the dog’s or animal’s enclosure and causes bodily injury
to the other person.
   (B)   An offense under this section is a Class C misdemeanor, unless the
attack causes serious bodily injury or death, in which event the offense is a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (C)   If a person is found guilty of an offense under this section, the
court may order the dangerous dog or dangerous animal destroyed by a person
listed in §
90.45.
   (D)   In addition to criminal prosecution, a person who commits an offense
under this section is liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $10,000. An
attorney having civil jurisdiction in the county or an attorney for a
municipality where the offense occurred may file suit in a court of competent
jurisdiction to collect the penalty. Penalties collected under this division
(D) shall be retained by the municipality.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.45  DESTRUCTION OF DOG OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   The destruction of a dog or animal under this subchapter must be performed
by:
   (A)   A licensed veterinarian;
   (B)   Personnel of a recognized animal shelter or humane society who are
trained in the humane destruction of animals; or
   (C)   Personnel of a governmental agency responsible for animal control who
are trained in the humane destruction of animals.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.46  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A person who owns or keeps custody or control of a dangerous dog or
dangerous animal commits an offense if the person fails to comply with §
90.40.
   (B)   Except as provided by division (C) of this section, an offense under
this section is a Class C misdemeanor.
   (C)   An offense under this section is a Class B misdemeanor if it is shown
on the trial of the offense that the defendant has previously been convicted
under this section.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.47  DEFENSE.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
90.44 or §
90.46 that the person is a veterinarian, a peace officer, a person employed by
a recognized animal shelter, or a person employed by the state or a political
subdivision of the state to deal with stray animals and has temporary
ownership, custody, or control of the dog or animal in connection with that
position.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.60  ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The primary responsibility for the enforcement of this chapter shall
rest with the Animal Control Department and its designated employees, the
Police Department and the Health Officer of the city.
   (B)   The Animal Control Department shall be authorized and empowered to
adopt and promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary and proper
to effectuate this chapter.
   (C)   Persons appointed to or otherwise serving on the Animal Control
Department at the time of the adoption of this chapter shall constitute the
initial membership thereof, and their terms shall be for two years from date of
appointment.
   (D)   The City Council may enter into contracts or agreements with public or
private entities to carry out the activities required or authorized under this
chapter.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.61  IMPOUNDING OF DOGS; DESTROYING OF DOGS; RELEASE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   The Animal Control Department shall take into custody any animal found
at large in the city and shall impound the animal control unit as designated by
the Animal Control Department or such other places as the Animal Control
Officer may designate for the purpose of impoundment. Such impounded dog shall
be held for a period of five days at the end of which time the animal shall be
made available for adoption or other disposition as authorized.
   (B)   During the five-day impoundment period, the animal control department
shall make diligent effort to determine the owner of such animal and notify the
owner of such impoundment. If the owner of such animal fails or refuses to
claim and repossess such animal by the payment of the proper fee as prescribed
herein within such impoundment period, then the city Animal Control Department
may deliver custody and possession of such animal to any person other than the
owner upon the payment of the fee as prescribed in §
90.62 between the fifth day of such impoundment and the seventh day of such
impoundment. Such owner shall be deemed to have relinquished all right, claims
and ownership of such animal.
   (C)   (l)   The Animal Control Department may, in its discretion, transfer
title of all animals held at its animal control unit to the animal shelter
after the impoundment period has expired and the animal has not been claimed by
its owner or otherwise adopted.
         (a)   In the event of such transfer of title, the animal shelter shall
pay for each animal’s food until it shall be removed from the animal shelter;
         (b)   Provide for the humane euthanasia of the animal after the
impoundment period has expired and the animal has not been claimed by its owner
or otherwise adopted; or
         (c)   Transfer title of all animals to a third party who may humanely
euthanize the animal after the expiration of the impoundment period and the
animal has not been claimed by its owner or otherwise adopted.
      (2)   The Animal Control Department shall be authorized to enter into any
contract with any third party or maintain its own procedure for the humane
euthanasia and the crematory disposal of the animal.
   (D)   When animals are found running at large and their ownership is known
to the agents of the Animal Control Department, such animals need not be
impounded but the agent may, in its discretion, cite the owners of such animals
to appear in court to answer to charges of violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Animals other than dogs and cats shall be impounded when found running
at large within the city limits and disposed of in accordance with this
subchapter and other applicable law.
   (F)   Immediately upon impounding other animals, the agents of the Animal
Control Department shall make every possible effort to notify the owners of the
animals so impounded and inform them of the conditions under which they may
gain custody of such animals.
   (G)   No unspayed female animal which has been impounded by reason of its
running at large shall be allowed to be adopted from the animal shelter unless
the prospective owner agrees to have such female spayed.
   (H)   Every female animal which has been impounded by reason of its running
at large shall not be allowed to be adopted from the animal shelter unless the
prospective owner agrees to have such female spayed.
   (I)   No wild animal may be kept within the city limits, except under such
conditions as shall be fixed by the city; provided, however, that wild animals
may be kept for exhibition purposes by circuses, zoos and educational
institutions in accordance with such regulations as shall be established by the
city.
   (J)   Any person who operates a kennel, as defined in §
90.40 shall not only pay those fees that are required but in addition shall
maintain such animals in an enclosure as defined in §
90.40.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.62  RECLAIMING ANIMALS; FEES.
   (A)   Any person owning, possessing or keeping an animal which has been
allowed to run at large and which has been impounded may claim and retrieve
such animal from the animal control authority after payment of the fees set
forth herein and providing proof that the dog or cat has been vaccinated within
the year next preceding such impounding and that the dog is currently licensed
as required by §
90.03. The burden of proof as to vaccination and licensing shall be upon the
party attempting to claim the dog or cat from the animal control authority
under this chapter. Any person claiming unvaccinated dogs or cat or an
unlicensed dog shall, after payment of the fee assessed herein and prior to
release of the dog or cat shall sign a promise in writing such person will
immediately have the dog or cat vaccinated and the dog licensed if the animal
is released to him or her.
   (B)   Any animal impounded for being a public nuisance may not be redeemed
unless the redemption is authorized by a court having jurisdiction.
   (C)   When, in the judgment of the animal control authority or its agents,
any animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, such animal may not be
redeemed.
   (D)   A person who fails to reclaim an animal which has come into the
possession of the animal control authority as described herein shall be deemed
to be guilty of failure to reclaim such animal within three days of receipt of
actual notice that the animal control authority has in its possession such
animal. Such violation shall be considered a Class C misdemeanor.
   (E)   Any animal impounded hereunder may be claimed by the owner upon
payment of fee, to the animal control authority in an amount to be determined
by City Council for each dog, cat, or any other animal.
   (F)   Any animal unwanted or unclaimed by its owner may be adopted by
payment of a fee as prescribed by the following fees schedule:
      (1)   Dogs: an amount as established by the City Council from time to
time;
      (2)   Cats: an amount as established by the City Council from time to
time;
      (3)   Large animals such as cows and horses may be adopted on bid.
   (G)   Registration; criminal penalty.
      (1)   A person commits an offense if:
         (a)   The person fails or refuses to register or present for
registration a dog or cat owned by the person; and
         (b)   The animal is required to be registered under this chapter.
      (2)   An offense under this section is a Class C misdemeanor.  Each day
that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.63  RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Every animal which bites a person shall be promptly reported to the
animal control authority. The report must include the name and address of the
victim and of the animal’s owner, if known; and any other information that may
help in locating the victim or animal. Upon receipt of such report the animal
control authority shall thereupon be securely quarantined at the direction of
the Animal Control Department for a period of ten days and shall not be
released from the quarantine except by written permission of the animal control
authority. In the discretion of the animal control authority, such quarantine
may be on the premises of the owner, at the shelter designated as the city
animal shelter or, at the owner’s option and expense, in a veterinary hospital
of his choice. In the case of stray animals or of animals whose ownership is
not known, such quarantine shall be at the shelter designated as the city
animal shelter.
   (B)   The owner, upon demand by the animal control authority, shall
forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten a human or which is suspected
of having been exposed to rabies, of supervised quarantine at the owner’s
expense. The animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies
upon payment of fees and compliance set forth in division (D) of this section
and upon compliance with licensing provisions set forth in §
90.03.
   (C)   If a veterinarian determines that a quarantined animal does not show
the clinical signs of rabies, the veterinarian or local rabies control
authority shall release the animal to its owner when the quarantine period ends
if:
      (1)   The owner has an unexpired rabies vaccination certificate for the
animal; or
      (2)   The animal is vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian
at the owner’s expense.
   (D)   If a veterinarian determines that a quarantined animal shows the
clinical signs of rabies, the veterinarian or local rabies control authority
shall humanely destroy the animal. If the animal dies or is destroyed while in
quarantine, the veterinarian or local rabies control authority shall remove the
head or brain of the animal and submit it to the nearest department laboratory
for testing.
   (E)   The owner of the animal that is quarantined under this chapter shall
pay to the veterinarian or local rabies control authority the reasonable costs
of the quarantine and disposition of the animal. The veterinarian or local
rabies control authority may bring suit to collect those costs. The city in
which the veterinarian is located may reimburse the veterinarian in a
reasonable amount set by the city for the costs of the quarantine and
disposition of the animal whose owner is unable to pay.
   (F)   When one or both reports give a positive diagnosis of rabies, the
animal control authority, and upon the invoking of such quarantines, no animal
shall be taken into the streets, permitted to be in the streets or be taken or
shipped from the city without written permission of the animal control
authority during the period of quarantine.
   (G)   The quarantine remains in affect until the 181st day after the date on
which the last case of rabies is diagnosed in a dog, cat, or other animal
species that caused the local rabies control authority to declare quarantine
unless the local rabies control authority removes the quarantine before that
date.
   (H)   No person shall kill, or caused to be killed, any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies or any such animal that has
bitten a human, except as herein provided. No such animal shall be removed from
the city limits without written permission from the Animal Control Department.
   (I)   A person commits an offense if the person fails or refuses to
quarantine or present for quarantine or testing an animal that is required to
be placed in quarantine or presented for testing under division (B) of this
section.
   (J)   It shall be the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the
Animal Control Department his or her diagnosis of any animal observed by him or
her as a rabies suspect.
   (K)   Every person who owns, keeps, harbors or has control over any dog or
cat in the city over the age of three months in the city before obtaining a
license for such dog as required by §
90.03 shall have the dog and any cat vaccinated with an anti-rabies vaccine.
All such dogs and cats shall be vaccinated against rabies annually.
   (L)   All veterinarians who are licensed to practice in this county shall be
appointed registrars of the city and shall register each dog or cat that
receives a rabies vaccination if the dog or cat is to be kept within the city.
   (M)   The provisions of this section shall in no way be construed to limit
the City Health Officer from establishing clinics for the purpose of
vaccinating dogs and cats, and to charge for vaccine in an amount not to exceed
that allowed under the state statutes or regulations.
   (N)   The city council shall designate an officer to act as the local health
authority for purposes of this chapter.
   (O)   The officer designated as the local health authority may be the
municipal health officer, animal control officers, peace officer, or any entity
that the city council considers appropriate whether employed in a public or
private sector.
   (P)   While the quarantine is in affect, the rules adopted by the local
rabies control authority supersede all other applicable ordinances or rules
applying to the quarantine area and apply until the local rabies control
authority removes the quarantine by declaration or until the rules expire or
are revoked by the local rabies control authority.
   (Q)   A person commits an offense if the person fails or refuses to have
each dog or cat owned by the person vaccinated against rabies and the animal is
required to be vaccinated under ordinances or rules adopted under this chapter;
or V.T.C.A. Health and Safety Code § 826.021.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.64  NOTICE OF OFFENSES AND VIOLATIONS; ARREST, DUTY AND POWER OF ANIMAL
CONTROL DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department, Health Officer and Animal Control Department,
or persons employed by such departments, are authorized, for violation of any
portion of this chapter to give to the offender a notice to appear in the
municipal court of the city. Such notice to appear shall state the name and
address of the violator and the date of the violation, shall also contain a
statement of the nature of the violation and be signed by the person having
knowledge of the violation who is also one of the officers or employees
mentioned above.
   (B)   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter and
to enforce its provisions, any agent of the Animal Control Department or any
police officer is empowered to enter upon any premises upon which a dog is kept
or harbored and to demand the exhibition by the owner of the dog the license
for the dog. Any agent of the Animal Control Department may enter the premises
where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to
examine the animal and to take possession of the animal when, in the opinion of
the agent, it requires human treatment.
   (C)   No person shall interfere with any animal control employee by use of
force, trickery or deceit or threaten use of force or otherwise intimidate or
attempt to intimidate or otherwise frustrate or thwart the work of any animal
control worker who may be carrying out or attempting to carry out his normal
and reasonable duties under this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Department to keep or cause
to be kept:
      (1)   Accurate and detailed records of the licensing, impoundment and
disposition of all animals coming into its custody;
      (2)   Accurate and detailed records of all bite cases reported to it and
its investigation of same; and
      (3)   Accurate and detailed records of all monies belonging to the city
which shall be open to inspection at reasonable times by the persons
responsible for similar records of the city and which shall be audited by the
city annually in the same manner as other city records are audited.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.25 through
90.29 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction in the Municipal
Court of this city shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 10-78, passed 6-12-1978; Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002; Ord. 13-04, passed
10-11-2004; Ord. 14-09, passed 10-12-2009)
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE PREVENTION AND REGULATIONS
Section
Fire Limits
   
91.01   Area designated as fire limits
   
91.02   Plan and permit required; inspections
   
91.03   Wooden or wood-support structures
   
91.04   Permissible frame structures
   
91.05   Roof coverings
   
91.06   Damage greater than 50%
   
91.07   Third–party report
   
91.08   Office of Building Inspector
Fire Prevention
   
91.15   Fire lanes designated
   
91.16   Size and distance requirements for fire lanes
   
91.17   Markings
   
91.18   Responsibility of maintaining clear lanes
   
91.19   Unauthorized blocking by non-emergency vehicles
   
91.20   Key lock box security systems
   
91.21   Gated property access
Open Burning
   
91.30   Required guidelines for outdoor burning
   
91.31   Burning regarded as nuisance
   
91.32   Maintaining nuisance, violation
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Mutual aid agreements for fire protection, see
TSO II
FIRE LIMITS
§ 91.01  AREA DESIGNATED AS FIRE LIMITS.
   The entire mercantile area within the boundaries of the city limits of the
City of Wake Village shall be and are hereby declared to be the fire limits of
the city.
(Ord. 5-73, passed 5-4-1973)
§ 91.02  PLAN AND PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTIONS.
   No wall, structure, building, or part thereof shall hereafter be built,
enlarged, or altered, until a plan of the proposed work, together with a
statement of the materials to be used, shall have been submitted to the
Building Inspector, who shall, if in accordance with the provisions herein
contained, issue a written permit in triplicate for the proposed work.  Permits
to be kept on file with the City Secretary.  Structures hereafter erected
without a permit, or not in conformity with this subchapter, shall be removed. 
No building shall be removed from without to within the fire limits, nor from
one location to another within the fire limits until a permit shall have been
issued therefor.  No permit shall be issued unless the construction is in
accordance with this subchapter.  The designated Building Inspector shall
inspect, as often as practical, construction in progress to see that all
provisions of this subchapter are being complied with.  All plans and
specifications submitted to the Building Inspector shall comply with all city
ordinances of the city, and with Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, Ch. 245.
(Ord. 5-73, passed 5-4-1973)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  WOODEN OR WOOD-SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No building or structure of wooden, ironclad, stucco, or other veneer
type of construction, or any building whose walls contain wood supports, shall
be permitted except as indicated in §
91.04; provided, however, dwelling houses may be permitted of the same or
similar construction as the dwelling houses now existing within the city. 
   (B)   On all other buildings hereinafter constructed, the thickness of the
walls shall be not less than as given below:
      (1)   Brick walls shall be not less than 12 inches thick, except that
one-story buildings with floor areas of 750 square feet or less may have walls
of eight inches thick.
      (2)   Reinforced concrete walls may be three quarters of the thickness of
brick walls, but in no case less than six inches.
      (3)   Hollow building tile may be used as filler walls, provided the
walls be supported on reinforced concrete beams and footings, and by adequate
reinforced concrete or brick pillars or columns spaced not more than 16 feet
apart; walls to be not less than 12 inches thick, except small one-story
buildings of less than 750 square feet floor area may have walls of eight-inch
hollow building tile.
      (4)   Solid stone walls shall be four inches thicker than brick walls for
like construction.
      (5)   All exterior walls, party walls, and division firewalls shall have
parapets extending at least 18 inches above the roof, and the parapets shall be
at least 12 inches thick, except where eight-inch walls are permitted as above,
in which case parapets may be eight inches thick.
(Ord. 5-73, passed 5-4-1973)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  PERMISSIBLE FRAME STRUCTURES.
   The following frame structures are permissible in the fire limits:
   (A)   Temporary one-story frame buildings for the use of builders; and
   (B)   Wooden fences not over eight feet high without roof or cover.
(Ord. 5-73, passed 5-4-1973)
§ 91.05  ROOF COVERINGS.
   All buildings or structures hereafter constructed in the fire limits shall
have incombustible roof coverings.  No roofing on an existing roof shall be
renewed or repaired to a greater extent than 10% of the roof surface, except in
conformity with this subchapter.
(Ord. 5-73, passed 5-4-1973)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  DAMAGE GREATER THAN 50%.
   Any existing building within the fire limits which may hereafter be damaged
by fire, decay, or otherwise, to an amount greater than 50% of its present
value, exclusive of the foundation, shall not be repaired or rebuilt, but shall
be removed.
(Ord. 5-73, passed 5-4-1973)
§ 91.07  THIRD-PARTY REPORT.
   Whenever an application for permit to repair any existing building already
located within the fire limits is made by any person or firm, and the City
Council and the applicant disagree on the extent of repairs to be made, and a
permit is denied by the designated Building Inspector, then the City Council
shall appoint a competent and disinterested person, and the applicant shall
appoint a competent and disinterested person, which two persons so appointed
shall select a third member, and those three persons shall appraise the
building, examine the plan of the proposed work and statement of materials and
labor to be used in the repairing or rebuilding of the building, and make a
signed written report of their findings to the City Council.  If the report
reflects clearly that the rebuilding or repairing would be a violation of this
subchapter, then the application for permit shall be denied by the City
Council, and if the report reflects that the person seeking the permit has
complied with this subchapter, and the requested rebuilding or repairing is not
in violation of this chapter, then the City Council shall issue a permit for
the proposed rebuilding or repairing.
(Ord. 5-73, passed 5-4-1973)
§ 91.08  OFFICE OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The office of Building Inspector is hereby created, which office is to be
filled by appointment of the City Council, and the officer appointed shall hold
office until removed and/or replaced by the City Council.
(Ord. 5-73, passed 5-4-1973)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.15  FIRE LANES DESIGNATED.
   Fire lanes shall be designated by the Building Official, Fire Official, or
their designees, where the parking of motor vehicles or other obstructions are
likely to interfere with the ingress and egress of the Fire Department vehicles
for the protection of lives and property when required by this chapter for all
occupancies, other than one- or two-family residences, as defined by the
International Building Code.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 91.16  SIZE AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR FIRE LANES.
   (A)   All parts of the buildings defined in §
91.15 shall be within 150 feet of a public street or designated fire lane.
Where it is not possible for all parts of a building to be within 150 feet of a
designated fire lane or public street because the length or width of the
building exceeds 300 feet, the building shall have a designated fire lane or
public street as closely adjacent as possible to the sides of the building.
   (B)   Fire lanes required by this subchapter shall have a width of at least
20 feet and an overhead clearance of at least 13.5 feet.  Fire lanes will be
allowed to have a dead end not exceeding 150 feet.  Dead ends in excess of 150
feet shall be provided with a turnaround as shown in the illustration attached
to Ordinance 3-07 and hereby adopted by reference as if set out herein, or
other turnaround provision deemed acceptable by the Fire Official.
      (1)   Acceptable alternatives for fire lane turn-around.
      (2)   Minimum roadway width 20 feet.
      (3)   All curve radii to conform to WB-40 template as specified in
division (C) of this section, WB-40 Template on file at Wake Village City Hall.
   (C)   For large sites where fire lanes will be required, a graphical
depiction of each radius turn along the fire lane must be provided in addition
to site plans for review.  The graphical depiction of each radius must
demonstrate that provision is made for the minimum turning radii of an AASHTO
[American Association of State Highway Officials] WB-40 [Wheel Base 40
ft.]vehicle through the  radius without significantly infringing on areas
outside of the fire lane.  A sample graphical depiction that should be overlaid
across the site plan for this demonstration is attached to Ordinance 3-07 and
hereby adopted by reference as if set out herein.
   (D)   Designated fire lanes must have concrete, asphalt, or gravel surface
and be substantial enough to support Fire Department apparatus and must remain
structurally unaffected by bad weather.  The design engineer or architect shall
issue a certificate to certify the above.
   (E)   The Fire Official may, by administrative approval, accept alternatives
to the specific requirements of this subchapter so long as, in the Fire
Official’s opinion, the alternative plan allows for adequate access by fire
apparatus to the building in question.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 91.17  MARKINGS.
   Fire lanes shall be designated by the following markings:
   (A)   Fire lane(s) on a paved surface shall be clearly marked on the
pavement with an exterior red paint forming a perimeter line at least six
inches wide.  Where there is a curb, the entire curb shall be painted with red
exterior paint.  Printed legends, “NO PARKING – FIRE LANE,” shall be painted on
the curb with white lettering four or more inches high.  Legends on the curb
shall appear at 50-foot intervals (minimum), or metal signs on posts may be
placed bearing the aforementioned legend and near a fire lane.
   (B)   The owner or manager of premises as defined below, with existing fire
lanes surrounding buildings required to have a fire lane under this subchapter,
with fire lane markings which do not comply with the specifications mandated by
this subchapter, shall have until the effective date of this subchapter, to
meet the requirements of this section.  This subchapter will have no effect on
existing structures or structures in which a building permit has been issued
prior to the effective date of this subchapter.
   (C)   The owner or manager of any building required to have a fire lane
under this subchapter shall ensure that the required markings are maintained in
such a manner that the lettering and color are clearly visible.
   (D)   Any fire lane that is appropriately marked in accordance with this
section shall be enforceable, regardless of whether the fire lane is required
by this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 91.18  RESPONSIBILITY OF MAINTAINING CLEAR LANES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PREMISES.  The property or parking area immediately surrounding the
building where the fire lane is located.  It shall be the joint and several
duties of the owner and manager of the premises to maintain the fire lane
markings and to keep the lanes free of obstruction. 
   (B)   No person may mark, post, or otherwise identify a nonfire lane private
vehicular passageway:
      (1)   As a fire lane; or
      (2)   In such a manner as tends to create confusion as to whether the
passageway is a fire lane.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 3-12-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19  UNAUTHORIZED BLOCKING BY NON-EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   No person may park or leave standing any unattended non-emergency vehicle in
a fire lane.  An unauthorized vehicle on a fire lane is subject to removal by
the owner or manager of the premises, with the expense of removal and storage
to be borne by the registered owner of the vehicle.  The operator or owner of
the vehicle will be subject to citation to Municipal Court by a police officer,
the Fire Chief, or a designee.  It shall be a defense to prosecution under this
subchapter that a vehicle was parked or left standing in a fire lane because it
was being utilized to transport a person during a medical emergency.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 3-12-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20  KEY LOCK BOX SECURITY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms have the
meaning set forth in this section:
      LOCK BOX. A high security key vault system approved by the Fire Chief of
the Wake Village Fire Department for secure containment of access keys,
material, safety data sheets, and pertinent site information which may assist
the Fire Department personnel in a fire or emergency response.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any commercial structure constructed in the
city after the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is
derived shall install on such structure a key lock box security system. Also,
the owner or occupant of any noncommercial structure converted to commercial
use in the city after the effective date of the ordinance from which this
section is derived shall install on such structure a key lock box security
system. The key lock box security system shall be of a type approved by the
fire official and shall be installed in a location and in a manner approved by
the fire official. Approval by the fire official of the type of key lock box
installed and the location and manner of installation shall be obtained before
and shall be a condition of the issuance of a final certificate of occupancy
for the structure.
   (C)   The owner or occupant of any commercial structure existing on the
effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived may
voluntarily participate in the key lock box security system. Upon notice to the
fire official of the intent to participate in the key lock box security system,
the participating owner or occupant of such structure shall install a key lock
box of a type approved by the fire official in a location and in a manner
approved by the fire official.
   (D)   The owner or occupant of a commercial structure to which the
provisions of this section apply shall maintain in such key lock box at all
times a key for each locked point of entry or exit, whether on the interior or
exterior of the structure, for each locked mechanical room, for each locked
elevator room, for each fire alarm or sprinkler system control room, and for
any other areas as directed by the fire official. Each such key shall be
labeled in a way that will enable the fire official to determine which lock it
operates.
   (E)   The owner or occupant of any commercial structure to which this
section applies shall immediately notify the fire official and provide a
replacement key for the key lock box if, for any reason, the condition of a
lock requires that its key be replaced.
   (F)   The Fire Chief shall be authorized to implement rules and regulations
for the use if the key box system.
(Ord. 08-15, passed 10-12-2015)
§ 91.21  GATED PROPERTY ACCESS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any apartment complex, storage facility,
residential community or other development having gated access that may impair
Fire Department emergency access, as determined by the fire official, shall
install a keyed access system of a type approved by the fire official.
   (B)   If the gate list is electrically operated, the gate activation
mechanism shall be equipped with a key switch which:
      (1)   Is compatible with the Fire Department lock box system;
      (2)   Shall cause the gate to open fully and remain open for the fire
apparatus access until the key switch is returned to the "off" position; and
      (3)   Will enable the Fire Department master key to be removed with the
switch in the "on" position.
   (C)   If the gate is not electrically operated, it shall be secured in such
a manner that Fire Department access is possible using the Fire Department lock
box system.
   (D)   The owner or occupant of any such gated structure or property to which
this section applies and which was constructed after the effective date of the
ordinance from which this section is derived shall comply with its provisions
prior to and as a condition of the issuance of a final certificate of occupancy
for the structure.
(Ord. 08-15, passed 10-12-2015)
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.30  REQUIRED GUIDELINES FOR OUTDOOR BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct outdoor burning unless all of the
following guidelines are met.
      (1)   All burning must take place in an approved incinerator.  The only
incinerator approved is a 55-gallon steel drum with a wire mesh cover over the
top.  The size of the wire mesh should not exceed one-half inch.
      (2)   The material burned must be brush, tree limbs, grass, leaves,
lumber, and the like.  No burning of garbage, any petroleum product, rubber,
cardboard, or plastic is allowed.
      (3)   The incinerator must be located in such manner that the smoke will
not become a nuisance to surrounding buildings or occupants.
      (4)   All burning must be continuously attended and provisions must be
made at all times to extinguish the fire if necessary (garden hose and the
like).
      (5)   Burning is permitted during daylight hours only.
      (6)   No burning is permitted in a street, alley, or on public property.
      (7)   Contractors/builders may burn trees and related brush from land
clearing by meeting the following requirements.  Prior to controlled burning
the city must be notified.  An address and phone number must be supplied for
the person responsible for the burning.  The Fire Department will inspect the
area and approve or disapprove the burning based on the following:
         (a)   The area must be cleared in a radius of acceptable size based on
the size of the pile or piles to be burned;
         (b)   All burning will occur during daylight hours;
         (c)   Fires will be extinguished each day before dark;
         (d)   Burning shall not occur when wind speed is predicted to be less
than six MPH or greater than 23 MPH during the burn period; and
         (e)   Burning shall occur only when it will not pose a nuisance as
defined in §
92.02.
   (B)   The authority to conduct outdoor burning under these guidelines does
not exempt or excuse any person responsible from the consequences, damages, or
injuries resulting from the burning and does not exempt or excuse anyone from
complying with all other applicable laws or ordinances and regulations, even
though the burning is otherwise conducted in compliance with these guidelines.
If these requirements are all met, burning is allowed.  However, residents
should be aware that they are responsible for any damage caused by their fire
if it gets out of control.
(Ord. 8-96, passed 6-10-1996)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31  BURNING REGARDED AS NUISANCE.
   Nothing in this section shall void or lessen enforcement of the nuisance
ordinance set forth in
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances.  Citizens should be aware that if any
neighbor considers the smoke from their fire to be a nuisance, he or she has
the right to file a complaint, to which the city must respond.  Meeting the
requirements listed here does not protect them from such a complaint.
(Ord. 8-96, passed 6-10-1996)
§ 91.32  MAINTAINING NUISANCE, VIOLATION.
   Any person or persons, firms, corporation, or association of persons who
shall, within the corporate limits of the city, commit, cause, create, permit,
keep, or otherwise maintain a nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of §
91.99.
(Ord. 8-96, passed 6-10-1996)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall hereafter violate any provision of §§
91.01 through
91.08 shall be assessed a penalty of $25, and shall comply with the provisions
of this subchapter before being permitted to proceed with the undertaking
commenced by him or her.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.19 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction in the
Municipal Court of the city shall be fined not more than $200.  Each day of any
such violation shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
91.20 and
91.21 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, fined an
amount not to exceed $500 for each violation.
   (E)   Any person maintaining a nuisance as set forth in §
91.32 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $500, and each and every day the nuisance shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 5-73, passed 5-4-1973; Ord. 8-96, passed 6-10-1996; Ord. 3-07, passed 3-
12-2007; Ord. 08-15, passed 10-12-2015)
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
Section
Nuisances
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Noise nuisances
   
92.04   Offensive odor nuisances
   
92.05   Weed nuisances
   
92.06   Trash and rubbish
   
92.07   Sight nuisances
   
92.08   Nuisances prohibited
   
92.09   Duty to abate without delay
   
92.10   Maintaining a nuisance, violation
   
92.11   Abatement procedure; notice; lien
   
92.12   Removal by city; recovery of the city’s expense
   
92.13   Charges for cleaning weed lots, substandard structures
   
92.14   Abatement by court order; punishment for violations
   
92.15   Assessment of expenses; lien
Sanitation
   
92.20   Depositing waste products into sanitary or storm sewers
Environment
   
92.30   Lots where stagnant water may accumulate
 
   
92.99   Penalty
NUISANCES
§ 92.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as The Nuisance Ordinance.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 2-15-2005)
§ 92.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE.  Whatever is dangerous to human life or health, or whatever
renders the ground, the water, the air, or food a hazard or injurious to human
life or health, or that is offensive to the senses or that is or threatens to
become detrimental to the public health, is hereby declared to be a NUISANCE,
and the following specific acts, conditions, and things are, among others, each
and all of them, hereby declared to be NUISANCES and prohibited and made
unlawful.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 2-15-2005)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  NOISE NUISANCES.
   (A)   Any unreasonably loud, disturbing, unnecessary noise which causes
material distress, discomfort, or injury to persons of ordinary sensibilities
in the immediate vicinity thereof is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is
hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Any noise of such character, intensity, and continued duration which
substantially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of private homes by
persons of ordinary sensibilities is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The following acts, conditions, and things, among others, are declared
to be noise nuisances in violation of this section, but the enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, to-wit:
      (1)   Radios, phonographs, television sets, and the like.  The playing of
any radio, phonograph, television set, or other musical instrument or device in
such manner or with such volume, particularly between the hours between 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
persons of ordinary sensibilities in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of
residence.
      (2)   Loudspeakers. 
         (a)   The use of any stationary loudspeaker or amplifier or other
musical instrument in such manner or with such volume, particularly between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., that annoys and disturbs persons of ordinary
sensibilities in the immediate vicinity thereof;
         (b)   Or the operation of the loudspeaker or amplifier or other
musical instrument or device at any time on Sunday, so as to disturb church
services and congregations therein;
         (c)   Provided, however, that upon application by the user of such
devices, the City Council may, by resolution, make special exemption or
exception to this division, for the time or times as the City Council feels
will serve the public welfare.
      (3)   Animals.  The keeping of any animal or bird, which by causing
frequent or long-continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any
person of ordinary sensibilities in the immediate vicinity.
      (4)   Whistle.  The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as
a warning of danger, or the blowing of any other loud or far-reaching steam or
air whistle for unreasonable lengths of time within the corporate limits of the
city.
      (5)   Compressed air.  The use of any mechanical device operated by
compressed air, unless the noise to be created is effectively muffled and
reduced.
      (6)   Building.  The erection, including excavation, demolition,
alteration, or repair work on any building at any time other than between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on week days; provided, that in case of
necessity, in the interest of public safety and convenience, the City Council
may grant a permit by resolution to allow the activities to continue for such
time and under such conditions as the Council may deem proper during the
emergency.
      (7)   Noise near schools, churches.  The creation of any excessive,
unreasonable or unnecessary noise on any street adjacent to any school or
institution of learning while the same is in session, or adjacent to any
hospital, convalescence, old age, or rest home, which unreasonably interferes
with the workings of the institution or may interfere with the comfort of
patients within the institution, provided conspicuous signs or other evidence
indicating the presence of the school, hospital, convalescence, old age, or
rest home are displayed, giving the public adequate notice of the presence of
the institutions.
      (8)   Loading and unloading.  The creation of any loud or unnecessary or
excessive noise in connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle or
the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates, and containers.
      (9)   Shouting of peddlers.  The raucous shouting and crying of peddlers,
hawkers, and vendors, which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
      (10)   Speaking or orating on public street.  The loud speaking,
preaching, orating, or exhorting by any person upon any public street or
sidewalk within the corporate limits of the city.
      (11)   Drums and the like.  The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or other
instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of
noises, such as speaking, music, or hallooing, to any performance, show,
theater, moving-picture house, sale of merchandise, or display which causes
crowds of people to block or congregate upon the sidewalks and/or streets near
or adjacent thereto.
      (12)   Mufflers.  The operation of a motor vehicle, including
motorcycles, motor scooters or any conveyance operated by a gasoline or diesel
engine, without a suitable muffler in operation at all times within the
corporate limits of the city, the muffler designed to prevent excessive or
unusual noises.  A MUFFLER within the meaning of this division (12) is defined
to be a device through which the escaping gases of the motor of a motor
vehicle, motor scooter, motorcycle or any conveyance operated by a gasoline or
diesel engine, pass, designed to muffle or minimize the noise to the greatest
extent as produced by the operation of the motor.
(Tex. Transp. Code § 547.604)
      (13)   Dangerous toys.  The carrying, discharging, selling, or offering
for sale of any pistol, gun or object, designed as a toy, which may be fired or
discharged with any substance, and which is capable of discharging a wad,
missile, or other object likely to produce bodily injury or property damage.
      (14)   Firearms.  The firing of any firearm at any time within the
corporate limits of this city, except that which is necessary and lawful for
the protection of one’s person, premises or property; provided that this
division (C)(14) shall not apply to a shooting gallery or gunsmith’s
establishment, when the gallery or gunsmith’s establishment is properly fitted
and arranged for the purpose so that no danger arises therefrom.
      (15)   Equipment.  The operation of any equipment to include but not
limited to truck tractors, trucks in excess of one ton in size, earth-moving
equipment, tree trimmers and mulchers, portable engines for welders or other
equipment, air compressors, and any other equipment which by their operation
cause an unreasonable loud, disturbing or unnecessary noise, which causes
material distress, discomfort or injury or by its character, intensity, or
continued duration substantially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of
private homes in areas zoned residential by persons of ordinary sensibilities
is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is hereby prohibited. There is excepted
from the prohibitions of this section operation of equipment in pursuit of
ordinary and reasonable activities during the hours from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
during weekdays.
§ 92.04  OFFENSIVE ODOR NUISANCES.
   (A)   Any unreasonably noxious, unpleasant, or strong odor, which causes
material distress, discomfort, or injury to persons of ordinary sensibilities
in the immediate vicinity thereof, is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and is
hereafter prohibited.
   (B)   Any odor, stench, or smell of such character, strength and continued
duration which substantially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of
private homes by persons of ordinary sensibilities is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and is hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The following things are, among others, declared to be offensive odors
and odor nuisances in violation of this subchapter, but the enumerations shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, to-wit:
      (1)   Horse, cow lots and the like.  Offensive odors from horse, cow, or
hog lots or pens or chicken yards or enclosures, or other similar places where
animals are kept, which has become offensive from use, or which shall disturb
the comfort and repose of persons of ordinary sensibilities.
      (2)   Smoke.  Offensive odors from smoke from the burning of rubbish,
trash, rubber, chemical substances, or other things or substances.
      (3)   Stagnant pools. Offensive odors from stagnant pools allowed to
remain on any premises, or from rotting garbage, refuse, offal or dead animals,
on any premises.
      (4)   Laundry discharge. The discharge of waste water from any laundry,
dry cleaning, launderette, or similar establishment into the streets or storm
sewers within the corporate limits, which discharge gives off offensive,
obnoxious, unpleasant, or strong odor.
      (5)   Cellars, yards and the like.  All cellars, vaults, drains, pools,
sewers, yards, grounds or premises which from any cause become foul, nauseous,
offensive or injurious to health, or unpleasant to adjacent residents or to
persons passing by.
      (6)   Chemicals.  Offensive odors from the use or possession of
chemicals, or from industrial processes or activities which shall disturb the
comfort and repose of persons of ordinary sensibilities.
      (7)   Dead animals.  The failure of the owner or possessor of any animal
which shall die within the corporate limits of this city, or the failure of the
owner or possessor of any premises upon which any animal may die within the
corporate limits of this city to remove or have the carcass of the same removed
within 24 hours after the death of the animal.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 2-15-2005)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05  WEED NUISANCES.
   The following things are hereby declared to be weed nuisances in violation
of this subchapter and are hereafter prohibited, to-wit:
   (A)   Reptiles and rodents.  Weeds and/or grass, or other non-ornamental
vegetation on any premises within the corporate limits of this city, which grow
in such rank profusion as to harbor reptiles or rodents or create a fire
hazard.
   (B)   Height of weeds.  Weeds and/or grass, or other non-ornamental
vegetation on any premises within the corporate limits of this city, which are
permitted to or do attain a greater height than 12 inches on the average.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 2-15-2005)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  TRASH AND RUBBISH.
   The following acts and things, among others, are hereby declared to be trash
and rubbish nuisances in violation of this section, but these enumerations
shall not be deemed to be exclusive, to-wit:
   (A)   Heaps of rubbish.  The keeping of any and all stacks, heaps or piles
of old lumber, refuse, junk, old cars or machinery or parts thereof, garbage,
rubbish, scrap material, ruins, or demolished or partly demolished structures
or buildings, or piles of stones, bricks, or broken rock, on any premises
visible from any public street within the corporate limits of this city, so as
to produce an unsightly and ugly appearance, or which may harbor reptiles or
rodents, or create a fire hazard, or result in unsanitary conditions.
   (B)   Dumping of trash.  The dumping, placing, or depositing of any trash,
rubbish, garbage, tin cans, refuse, grass, weeds, scrap material, offal, dead
animals, or junk, in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, branch, creek, ditch,
or gutter, or along or upon the sides thereof, in the corporate limits of this
city.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 2-15-2005)
§ 92.07  SIGHT NUISANCES.
   The following acts and things, among others, are hereby declared to be sight
nuisances in violation of this section, but these enumerations shall not be
deemed to be exclusive, to-wit:
   (A)   Posters, billboards, and the like.  The printing, pasting, stitching,
or placing of any advertisement, handbill or placard of any printed, pictured,
or written matter upon any house, wall, building or fence, or other property,
private or public, without the permission of the owner or person in charge
thereof.
   (B)   Sleeping in public places.  Persons found asleep upon the sidewalks,
streets, alleys, or in any public place or public thoroughfare within the
corporate limits of this city, or upon the private property of another without
the latter’s permission.
   (C)   Shrubbery and trees.  The maintaining of shrubbery and trees at street
intersections in such a manner that the view of intersections is obstructed,
hindered, or obscured; or the maintaining of trees or shrubbery having
overhanging limbs, or extending branches that obstruct, hinder, or obscure the
vision of operators of motor vehicles or pedestrians either upon the streets,
sidewalks or alleys of this city.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 2-15-2005)
§ 92.08  NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying any real property
inside the city to allow stagnant water to stand on the property or any part
thereof; to allow litter and rubbish of any description, including, but not
limited to, abandoned vehicles, abandoned refrigerators and other appliances,
abandoned trailers, scrap wood and scrap metal; to remain on the property or
any part thereof to allow weeds, brush and other uncut vegetation that is not
cultivated to grow to a height greater than 12 inches on an average or to grow
in rank profusion upon any property, or to allow any other condition upon the
property which is or could be a fire hazard. All of such conditions are herein
deemed to be nuisances per se.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 92.09  DUTY TO ABATE WITHOUT DELAY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, his or her agent, or the occupant or his
or her agent, of any lot, building, premises or place of any kind within the
corporate limits of this city, where any nuisance may exist, to remove, abate,
or destroy the same without delay.  On rented premises, the owner or his or her
agent, as well as the occupant may each be charged with a violation of this
section, and each, upon conviction, shall be liable for the penalties imposed
against him or her respectively.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 2-15-2005)
§ 92.10  MAINTAINING A NUISANCE, VIOLATION.
   Any person or persons, firm, corporation, or association of persons who
shall, within the corporate limits of the city, commit, cause, create, permit,
keep, or otherwise maintain a nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of §
92.99.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 2-15-2005)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11  ABATEMENT PROCEDURE; NOTICE; LIEN.
   (A)   When any person complains to the Mayor, City Administrator, Fire
Chief, Police Chief, or Code Enforcement Official, or upon discovery of such
condition by the Code Enforcement Official, regarding a condition embraced in §
92.08, an inspection shall be made and a report made to the Deputy City
Secretary, who shall write a letter to the owner and occupant of the property,
if the owner’s address is known. Notice shall be given to any person or lending
institution having a lien upon the property shown on the applicable real estate
records in the office of the County Clerk or at the owner’s address as recorded
in the appraisal district records of the Appraisal District. Service of notice
under this section is complete when the notice is deposited in the United
States mail, first class postage prepaid. If the owner’s or lienholder’s
address is unknown, a notice shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city on two insertions within ten consecutive days, by
posting the notice on or near the front door of each building on the property
to which the violation relates; or by posting the notice on a placard attached
to a stake driven into the ground on the property to which the violation
relates. The contents of such letter or notice shall:
      (1)   Include the date of notice;
      (2)   Be directed to the owner and lienholder, if known, and his or her
address, if known, and if unknown, “to the owner and/or lessee of Lot          
  , Block             ,                                        Addition to the
City of Wake Village, Texas, and address of Lot              Street, Wake
Village, Texas”, or property description, so that the lot may be identified;
      (3)   Call attention to the deficiency of the property;
      (4)   State the minimum requirements to correct the same;
      (5)   Notify the owner that, if the proper action is not taken within ten
days from the date of the notice, the city may do the work or cause the same to
be done, and charge such costs, together with the cost of newspaper publication
and lien notices to the owner, and have a lien on the property as provided by
the Tex. Health and Safety Code § 342.007 and this section; and
      (6)   State that allowing the nuisance to exist and failing to correct
the violation is a misdemeanor punishable pursuant to §
10.99.
   (B)   If a municipality mails a notice to a property owner in accordance
with division (A) and the United States Postal Service returns the notice as
“refused” or “unclaimed,” the validity of the notice is not affected, and the
notice is considered as delivered.
   (C)   In a notice provided under this section, a municipality may inform the
owner by regular mail and a posting on the property, or by personally
delivering the notice, that if the owner commits another violation of the same
kind or nature that poses a danger to the public health and safety on or before
the first anniversary of the date of the notice, the municipality without
further notice may correct the violation at the owner’s expense and assess the
expense against the property. If a violation covered by a notice under this
section occurs within the one-year period, and the municipality has not been
informed in writing by the owner of an ownership change, then the municipality
without notice may take any action permitted by § 342.006(a)(1) and § 342.006
(a)(2) of the Tex. Health and Safety Code and assess its expenses as provided
by § 342.007 of the Tex. Health and Safety Code and by §
92.12 and §
92.15 herein.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 1-14-2013; Ord. 14-13, passed 8-12-2013)
§ 92.12  REMOVAL BY CITY; RECOVERY OF THE CITY’S EXPENSE.
   (A)   If any owner or occupant notified as provided in §
92.11, fails or refuses to meet the requirements within ten days after such
notice, or such longer period as the code official may allow if the amount of
weed growth or other circumstances precludes removal or cutting within the ten-
day period and if the property owner fails to eliminate the violation after
notification as required, the code official may arrange to have the litter
removed from the property or the weeds cut and to file a privileged lien
against the property for the costs incurred by the city for elimination of the
violation.
   (B)   To affix a lien against the property, the Mayor shall execute an
affidavit stating the action taken, dates and action of officials, setting
forth the costs incurred by the city and describing the property as required in
deeds of conveyance, including the statement: “The City of Wake Village, Texas,
claims a lien, second only to taxes and liens for street improvements against
the above described property for the herein described work performed.” Such
costs of work and expenses shall bear 10% interest from the date of expenditure
until paid.
   (C)   The City Council may authorize the bringing of a suit to foreclose
such lien as provided by law.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 92.13  CHARGES FOR CLEANING WEED LOTS, SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURES.
   (A)   For any lot or substandard structure upon which the city is required
to clean or do any work, charges for equipment used will be assessed according
to cost of equipment and charged against the land in conformity with §
92.12.
   (B)   All charges for supervisory personnel and labor shall be the current
hourly rate paid to the supervisors and laborers doing the type work involved,
and shall include a charge for transportation.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 92.14  ABATEMENT BY COURT ORDER; PUNISHMENT FOR VIOLATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person within the city to commit, cause, create,
permit, keep or otherwise maintain a nuisance and fail to correct nuisance
within ten days after the notice required by §
92.11 and/or §
92.12. Whenever it shall appear to the court that the nuisance continues at the
time of conviction, the court shall order the removal, abatement or destruction
of the nuisance, as the case may require, and shall issue a separate warrant
therefor. The court shall inquire into the probable cost of removal, abatement
or destruction and shall tax the cost thereof against the defendant as cost in
the case. Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
prosecuted for the commission of a misdemeanor. Each such person shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or a portion thereof
during which any violation of the provisions of this chapter is committed or
continued, and upon conviction of any such violation in municipal court, such
person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $2,000.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 92.15  ASSESSMENT OF EXPENSES; LIEN.
   (A)   The governing body of the city may assess expenses incurred against
the real estate on which the work is done or improvements made.
   (B)   To obtain a lien against the property, the Mayor, Municipal Health
Authority, or other municipal official designated by the Mayor must file a
statement of expenses with the County Clerk of Bowie County.
   (C)   The lien obtained by the city’s governing body is security for the
expenditures made and interest accruing at the rate of 10% on the amount due
from the date of payment by the city.
   (D)   The lien is inferior only to:
      (1)   Tax liens; and
      (2)   Liens for street improvements.
   (E)   The governing body of the city may bring a suit for foreclosure in the
name of the city to recover the expenditures and interest due.
   (F)   The statement of expenses or a certified copy of the statement is
prima facie proof of the expenses incurred by the city in doing the work or
making the improvements.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 2-15-2005; Ord. 03-13, passed 1-14-2013)
SANITATION
§ 92.20  DEPOSITING WASTE PRODUCTS INTO SANITARY OR STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Any person who shall deposit or throw into any sewer, manhole, catch
basin, or flush tank or into any private drain connecting with, or which drains
into, any public sewer, any waste, refuse or any other substance which may
cause the sewer or drain to become greasy or become stopped shall be subject to
the provisions of §
92.99.
   (B)   The terms WASTE or REFUSE shall include oil and grease and waste
petroleum products, earth, straw, hay shavings, tinners’ scraps, refuse or
manufacturers, ashes, and rags.  This definition is not intended to be
exclusive, and the practice prohibited herein shall include all substances
which impair the operation of the city’s sewage disposal plant, the sanitary
sewer system, or the storm sewer system, or any part thereof the City of Wake
Village.
   (C)   If any partnership shall own or manage any place of business wherein
any act prohibited by this section is permitted, each partner shall be deemed
guilty, individually/and severally, of the violation.  If any corporation shall
own or manage any business place or building where any act prohibited by this
section is permitted in violation of this section, the President, Vice-
President, and the Secretary-Treasurer shall, individually and severally, be
deemed guilty of such violation as shall all of its supervisors, agents and
managers directly involved in the management of the business place or
building.  Each day of operation in violation of the provisions of this section
shall be deemed separate offenses.
(Ord. 5-54, passed 10-11-1954)  Penalty, see §
92.99
ENVIRONMENT
§ 92.30  LOTS WHERE STAGNANT WATER MAY ACCUMULATE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation who shall
own or occupy any lot or lots in the city, to permit or allow holes or places
on the lots where water may accumulate and become stagnant, or to permit same
to remain.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation who shall
own or occupy any lot or lots in the city to permit or allow the accumulation
of stagnant water thereon, or to permit same to remain.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation who shall
own or occupy any house, buildings, establishment, lot, or yard in the city to
permit or allow any carrion, filth, or other impure or unwholesome matter to
accumulate or remain thereon.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation who shall
own or occupy any lot or lots in the city, to allow weeds, rubbish, brush, or
any other unsightly, objectionable, or unsanitary matter to accumulate or grow
on the lot or lots.
   (E)   Should any owner of a lot or lots that have places thereon where
stagnant water may accumulate and/or which are not properly drained, or the
owner of any premises or building upon which carrion, filth, or other impure or
unwholesome matter may be, fail and/or refuse to drain and/or fill the same lot
or lots, or remove the filth, carrion, or other impure or unwholesome matter,
as the case may be, within ten days after notice to the owner to do so, in
writing, or by letter addressed to the owner at his or her post office address
or within ten days after notice by publication as many as two times within ten
consecutive days in any newspaper in Texas, if personal service, may not be had
as aforesaid, or if the owner’s address be not known; then in that event, the
city may do the filling or draining, or removal of filth, carrion, and the
like, or any other unsightly, objectionable, or unsanitary matter, or cause the
same to be done and may pay therefor and charge the expenses incurred in doing
the work or having the work done or improvements made to the owner of the lot
or lots or real estate, and if the work is done or improvements made at the
expense of the city, then the expense or expenses shall be assessed on the real
estate, or lots upon which the expense was incurred.
   (F)   Should any owner of any lot or lots within the city, who shall allow
weeds, rubbish, brush, or any other unsightly, objectionable, or unsanitary
matter to grow or accumulate thereon, fail and/or refuse to cut down and/or
remove the weeds, rubbish, brush, or other unsightly objectionable or
unsanitary matter, as the case may be, within ten days after notice to the
owner to do so, in writing, or by letter addressed to the owner at his or her
post office address, or within ten days after notice by publication as many as
two times within ten consecutive days in any newspaper in Texas, may do the
cutting down and/or removing the weeds, rubbish, brush, or any other unsightly,
objectionable, or unsanitary matter, or cause the same to be done and may pay
therefor, and charge the expenses incurred in doing the work or having the work
done or improvements made to the owner of the lot or lots or real estate; and,
if the work is done or improvements made at the expense of the city, then the
expenses shall be assessed on the real estate or lot or lots upon which the
expense was incurred.
   (G)   The Mayor or City Health Officer of the city shall file a statement of
the expenses incurred under division (E) or under division (F) of this section,
as the case may be, giving the amount of the expenses, the date on which the
work was done or improvements made, with the County Clerk of Bowie County,
Texas and the city shall have a privileged lien on the lot or lots or real
estate upon which the work was done or improvements made to secure the
expenditures so made, in accordance with the provisions of Tex. Health & Safety
Code § 342.007, which lien shall be second only to tax liens and liens for
street improvements; and the amount shall bear 10% interest from the date the
statement was filed.  It is further provided that for any the expenditures, and
interest, as aforesaid, suit may be instituted and recovery and foreclosure of
the lien may be had in the name of the city; and the statement of expenses so
made, as aforesaid, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie proof of
the amount expended for the work or improvements.
(Ord. 8-65, passed 9-7-1965)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
92.09  shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $500, and each and every day the nuisance shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
92.20 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not
less than $15 nor more than $200.
   (D)   Any person, firm or individual who shall violate any of the provisions
of §
92.30 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined in
any sum not exceeding $200, and each and every day’s violation shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense, in case the owner or occupant of any lot, lots
or premises under the provisions of this section shall be a corporation, and
shall violate any provision of this section, the President, Vice President,
Secretary, Treasurer of the corporation or any manager, agent or employee of
the corporation shall be also severally liable for the penalties herein
provided.
(Ord. 5-54, passed 10-11-1954; Ord. 8-65, passed 9-7-1965; Ord. 2-05, passed 2-
15-2005)
CHAPTER 93:  JUNKED AND ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Prohibition
   
93.02   Abandonment
   
93.03   Parking of trailers on street or sidewalk
   
93.04   Extended loading permit
   
93.05   Definition of junked vehicle
   
93.06   Junked vehicle declared to be public nuisance
   
93.07   Authority to abate nuisances; procedures and notice
   
93.08   Abatement hearing
   
93.09   Taking into custody
   
93.10   Allowing junked vehicle to remain
   
93.11   Maintaining public nuisance; violation
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking restrictions, presumption of abandoned vehicle, see
Chapter 73, Sch. II
§ 93.01  PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter to leave, park, or
abandon any vehicle or trailer on any sidewalk or city street, wherein that
vehicle is inoperable, due to accident, mechanical failure, or any other
cause.  Except for emergency repairs required to move the vehicle, it shall be
further unlawful to repair or dismantle any such vehicle while on the sidewalk
or city street.
(Ord. 3-05, passed 2-15-2005)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02  ABANDONMENT.
   Any vehicle that has been parked or unattended in the same location for more
than 72 hours shall be considered abandoned wherein the registered owner of the
vehicle cannot be located, such that the vehicle may be removed and impounded
as hereafter provided.  Such an abandonment shall also constitute a violation
of this chapter.  A trailer shall be considered a vehicle hereunder.
(Ord. 3-05, passed 2-15-2005)
§ 93.03  PARKING OF TRAILERS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No trailer, house trailer, travel trailer, cargo trailer, or truck, tractor
trailer, or combination thereof, shall be parked on any city street or
sidewalk, except for the express purpose of loading and/or unloading.  Loading
or unloading of the vehicles under this chapter shall not exceed 24 hours,
unless extended by a permit issued by the office of the Mayor.
(Ord. 3-05, passed 2-15-2005)
§ 93.04  EXTENDING LOADING PERMIT.
   The Mayor shall issue an extended loading permit when in his or her
discretion, the reasonable time for loading and/or unloading a vehicle as
described will require in excess of 24 hours.
(Ord. 3-05, passed 2-15-2005)
§ 93.05  DEFINITION OF JUNKED VEHICLE.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNKED VEHICLE means a vehicle that is self-propelled and both divisions (1)
and (2) apply:
      (1)   Is:   
         (a)   Wrecked, dismantled, or partially dismantled, or discarded; or
         (b)   Inoperable and has remained inoperable for more than:
            1.   Seventy-two consecutive hours, if the vehicle is on public
property; or
            2.   Thirty consecutive days, if the vehicle is on private
property.
      (2)   Includes a motor vehicle, aircraft, or watercraft applying only to:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that does not have lawfully attached to it:
            1.   An unexpired license plate; and
            2.   A valid motor vehicle inspection certificate;
         (b)   An aircraft that does not have lawfully printed on the aircraft
an unexpired federal aircraft identification number registered under Federal
Aviation Administration aircraft registration regulations in 14 C.F.R. Part 47;
or
         (c)   A watercraft that:
            1.   Does not have lawfully on board an unexpired certificate of
number; and
            2.   Is not a watercraft described by Tex. Parks and Wildlife Code
§ 31.055.
(Ord. 3-05, passed 2-15-2005; Ord. 17-13, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 93.06  JUNKED VEHICLE DECLARED TO BE PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A junked vehicle, including a part of a junked vehicle, that is visible at
any time of the year from a public place or public right-of-way:
   (A)   Is detrimental to the safety and welfare of the public;
   (B)   Tends to reduce the value of private property;
   (C)   Invites vandalism;
   (D)   Creates a fire hazard;
   (E)   Is an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety
of minors;
   (F)   Produces urban blight adverse to the maintenance and continuing
development of municipalities; and
   (G)   Is a public nuisance.
(Ord. 3-05, passed 2-15-2005; Ord. 17-13, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 93.07  AUTHORITY TO ABATE NUISANCES; PROCEDURES AND NOTICE.
   (A)   When the Code Enforcement Officer, Chief of Police or any city Police
Officer (each of whom may be referred to as enforcement officer) determines the
existence of an abandoned vehicle upon private property within the city, the
Police Department shall notify the last known registered owner of the abandoned
motor vehicle, any lien holder of record and the owner or occupant of the
private premises on which the public abandoned vehicle exists. Such notice
shall be by certified mail with a five-day return requested or by personal
delivery, shall state the nature of the public nuisance on the private property
and that it must be removed and abated within ten days from the date of such
notice and that if the nuisance is not abated, the city will remove or dispose
of such abandoned vehicle. Such notice shall further provide that the owner or
the occupant of the private premises whereupon such abandoned vehicle exists
may request a hearing by the City Council to determine whether or not such
alleged abandoned vehicle does, in fact, constitute an abandoned vehicle under
the provisions hereof and, thereby be subject to removal and abatement as
provided hereunder. Such hearing, to be effective and granted, must be
requested within ten days from the date of such notice. If the post office
address of the last known registered owner of the abandoned vehicle is unknown,
notice may be placed on the abandoned vehicle or, if the owner is located,
personally delivered. If the notice herein provided for is returned undelivered
by the United States Post Office, official action to abate such nuisance shall
be continued to a date not less than ten days from the date of such return.
   (B)   When the Code Enforcement Officer, Chief of Police or any city Police
Officer (each of whom may be referred to as enforcement officer) determines the
existence of an abandoned vehicle upon public property or on a public right-of-
way within the city, the Police Department shall notify the last known
registered owner of the abandoned motor vehicle, any lien holder of record and
the owner or the occupant of the public premises or the owner or the occupant
of the premises adjacent to the public right-of-way whereupon such abandoned
vehicle exists. Such notice shall be by certified mail with a five-day return
requested or by personal delivery. If the post office address of the last known
registered owner of the abandoned vehicle is unknown, notice may be placed on
the abandoned vehicle or, if the owner is located, personally delivered. Such
notice shall state the nature of the public nuisance on the public property or
on a public right-of-way and that it must be removed and abated within ten days
from the date on which the notice was personally delivered or mailed or the
city will remove or dispose of such abandoned vehicle. Such notice shall
further provide that the owner or the occupant of the public premises or the
owner or the occupant of the premises adjacent to the public right-of-way
whereupon such abandoned vehicle exists may request a hearing by the City
Council to determine whether or not such alleged abandoned vehicle does, in
fact, constitute an abandoned vehicle under the provisions hereof and, thereby
be subject to removal and abatement as provided for hereunder. Such hearing, to
be effective and granted must be requested within ten days from the date on
which the notice was personally delivered or mailed. If the notice herein
provided for is returned undelivered by the United States Post Office, official
action to abate such nuisance shall be continued to a date not earlier than the
eleventh day after the date of the return.
   (C)   In the event an abandoned vehicle is not removed and abated within
five days from the date of the resolution of the Municipal Judge, it may be
disposed of by the city by removal thereof to a scrap yard, demolisher, or any
suitable site operated by the city for processing scrap or salvage. In the
event the City Council determines that commercial channels or disposition of
abandoned vehicles within the city are not available or are inadequate, the
city may make final disposition of the abandoned vehicles, or parts thereof, or
it may transfer the vehicles or parts thereof to another, with the transfers to
be only a scrap or salvage and upon the condition that the same cannot be
reconstructed or made operable.
(Ord. 4-13, passed 1-14-2013; Ord. 15-13, passed 8-12-2013; Ord. 17-13, passed
11-12-2013)
§ 93.08  ABATEMENT HEARING.
   (A)   The governing body of the municipality or county or a board,
commission, or official designated by the governing body shall conduct hearings
under the procedures adopted under this subchapter.
   (B)   If a hearing is requested by a person for whom notice is required
under §
93.07, the hearing shall be held not earlier than the eleventh day after the
date of the service of notice.
   (C)   At the hearing, the junked motor vehicle is presumed, unless
demonstrated otherwise by the owner, to be inoperable.
   (D)   If the information is available at the location of the nuisance, a
resolution or order requiring removal of the nuisance must include:
      (1)   For a motor vehicle, the vehicle’s:
         (a)   Description;
         (b)   Vehicle identification number; and
         (c)   License plate number.
      (2)   For an aircraft, the aircraft’s:
         (a)   Description; and
         (b)   Federal aircraft identification number as described by Federal
Aviation Administration aircraft registration regulations in 14 C.F.R. Part 47.
      (3)   For a watercraft, the watercraft’s:
         (a)   Description; and
         (b)   Identification number as set forth in the watercraft’s
certificate of number.
(Ord. 17-13, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 93.09  TAKING INTO CUSTODY.
   Any vehicle which is parked, left, abandoned, or junked in violation of
Sections §§
93.01,
93.02,
93.03, or
93.05 of this chapter may be taken into custody, when that vehicle is an
obstruction to traffic, or is abandoned as defined by the Texas Transportation
Code or Texas Penal Code, and may be disposed of as is further determined by
that ordinance.
(Ord. 3-05, passed 2-15-2005)
§ 93.10  ALLOWING JUNKED VEHICLE TO REMAIN.
   Any person shall violate this chapter by allowing a junked vehicle to remain
on their property, or by abandoning, parking or leaving a vehicle on the
streets or sidewalks, or on private property as is hereby prohibited.  Each day
that such a vehicle is left, parked, abandoned, or junked shall constitute a
separate offense hereunder.
(Ord. 3-05, passed 2-15-2005)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 MAINTAINING PUBLIC NUISANCE; VIOLATION.
   If, after receiving notice as herein provided, requiring the removal and
abatement, and not requesting a hearing as herein provided, a person fails to
remove and abate the junked vehicle within the ten-day period provided for
herein, the person shall be guilty of a violation of maintaining a public
nuisance. If a public hearing is requested and held and the Municipal Judge
issues an order directing the removal and abatement of a junked vehicle, and
the person to whom the resolution or order is directed fails to remove or abate
the junked vehicle within five days from the date of the order or resolution,
the person shall be in violation of maintaining a public nuisance. A violation
of maintaining a public nuisance under any of the provisions hereof shall be
subject to the provisions of §
93.99.
(Ord. 3-05, passed 2-15-2005)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person maintains a public nuisance
described by §
93.06.
   (B)   An offense under this section is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine
not to exceed $200.
   (C)   The court shall order abatement and removal of the nuisance on
conviction.
(Ord. 17-13, passed 11-12-2013)
CHAPTER 94:  SMOKING PROHIBITIONS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Applicability to city-owned facilities
   
94.03   Prohibition in public places
   
94.04   Prohibition in places of employment
   
94.05   Reasonable distance
   
94.06   Where smoking not regulated
   
94.07   Declaration of establishment as nonsmoking
   
94.08   Posting signs
   
94.09   Minors prohibited from entering smoking areas
   
94.10   Enforcement
   
94.11   Public education
   
94.12   Governmental agency cooperation
   
94.13   Other applicable laws
   
94.14   Liberal construction
   
94.15   Effective date
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAR.  An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages, including but not
limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges, and cabarets.
   BINGO FACILITY.  Any facility used for the purpose of operating bingo gaming
by a person or entity licensed by the Bingo Enabling Act, being Tex.
Occupations Code §§ 2001.001 et seq..
   BUSINESS.  A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
or other business entity formed for profit-making purposes, including retail
establishment where goods or services are sold, as well as professional
corporations and other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering,
architectural, or other professional services are delivered.
   CITY-OWNED BUILDINGS.  Those buildings or facilities that are operated,
owned, or managed in part or whole by the city.
   EMPLOYEE.  A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit and a person who volunteers his or
her or her services for a nonprofit entity.
   EMPLOYER.  A person, business, partnership, and association, corporation,
including municipal corporation, trust, or nonprofit entity, that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA.  All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on
all sides by a solid wall or windows (exclusive of doorways), which extend from
the floor to the ceiling.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY.  An office or institution providing care or treatment
of diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical,
physiological, or psychological conditions, including but not limited to
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, including weight control
clinics, nursing homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and
offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists,
and all specialists within these professions.  This definition shall include
all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and ward within
HEALTH CARE FACILITIES.
   MINOR.  Persons age 17 and below.
   NONPUBLIC AREA.  The area of a public place in which the public is not
generally permitted access by express or implied invitation and/or in which the
public is expressly prohibited from entering or occupying.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT.  An area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees normally frequent during the course of employment,
including but not limited to work areas, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, and
vehicles.  A private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT unless it is used
as a child care, adult day care, or health care facility.
   PUBLIC AREA.  The area of a public place in which the public is generally
permitted to enter or occupy by express or implied invitation of the owner/
operator.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  An enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including but not limited to banks, bars, educational
facilities, health care facilities, laundromats, public transportation
facilities, reception areas, restaurants, retail food production and marketing
establishments, retail service establishments, retail stores, shopping malls,
sports arenas, theaters, and waiting rooms.  A private residence is not a
PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used as a child care, adult day care, or health care
facility.
   RESTAURANT.  An eating establishment, including but not limited to coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, as
well as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere.  The term RESTAURANT shall include a bar area
within the restaurant.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE.  A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental.
   SERVICE LINE.  An indoor line in which one or more persons are waiting for
or receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service involves the
exchange of money.
   SHOPPING MALL.  An enclosed public walkway or hall area that serves to
connect retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKING.  Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, weed, plant, or other combustible substance in any manner or
in any form.
   SPORTS ARENA.  Sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing
arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys, and other similar
places where members of the general public assemble to engage in physical
exercise, participate in athletic competition, or witness sports or other
events.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
 § 94.02  APPLICABILITY TO CITY-OWNED FACILITIES.
   All enclosed facilities, including buildings and vehicles owned, leased, or
operated by the city, shall be nonsmoking at all times notwithstanding other
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.03  PROHIBITION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places within the city,
including but not limited to the following places:
   (A)   Any public facility, place, building, or vehicle where minors are
permitted to enter or ride;
   (B)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries, museums and zoo facilities and
grounds;
   (C)   Areas available to and customarily used by the general public in
businesses and nonprofit entities patronized by the public, including but not
limited to attorneys’ offices and other professional offices, banks,
laundromats, hotels, and motels;
   (D)   Convention facilities;
   (E)   Elevators;
   (F)   Facilities primarily used for exhibiting any motion picture, stage
drama, lecture, musical recital, or other similar performance; however, smoking
which is a part of a stage performances is permitted;
   (G)   Health care facilities, except bed space facilities where smoking is
ordered by an attending physician in keeping with the guidelines established by
the facility;
   (H)   Licensed child care and adult day care facilities;
   (I)   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other
multiple-unit residential facilities;
   (J)   Polling places;
   (K)   Public transportation facilities, including buses, bus terminals,
taxicabs, train stations, airports and other facilities and means of public
transit under the authority of the city, as well as ticket, boarding, and
waiting areas of public transit depots;
   (L)   Restaurants;
   (M)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and other common-use
areas;
   (N)   Retail stores;
   (O)   Every room, chamber, places of meeting or public assembly, including
school buildings under the control of any board, council, commission,
committee, including joint committees, or agencies of the city or any political
subdivision of the state during the time that a public meeting is in progress,
to the extent the place is subject to the jurisdiction of the city;
   (P)   Service lines;
   (Q)   Shopping malls;
   (R)   Sports arenas and convention halls, including bowling facilities and
outdoor arenas;
   (S)   The living area and offices of the Wake Village, Texas, fire station;
   (T)   Concession stands; and
   (U)   Training facilities that house residents in private and group rooms.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.04  PROHIBITION IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Option of prohibition.  An employer may prohibit smoking in a
workplace, or the employer may permit smoking in a workplace as provided by
this section.
   (B)   Smoking only in designated area.  An employee (or employer) may not
smoke in a workplace except in a designated smoking area.
   (C)   Written policy required.
      (1)   An employer must adopt a written smoking policy.  If smoking is to
be permitted, the policy must include provisions that comply with this section.
      (2)   The employer must communicate the policy to each employee and to
each new employee.
      (3)   The employer must post the policy in the workplace within three
weeks of its adoption.
   (D)   Designated smoking area.
      (1)   An employer that permits smoking in the workplace shall designate
one or more smoking areas for use by its employees.  An employee smoking area
may include a private enclosed office.
      (2)   A designated area:
         (a)   Must be located in an area accessible to employees but not
accessible to the general public except by express invitation of the employer
or an employee; and
         (b)   Must meet the provisions of §
94.05.
      (3)   A designated smoking area may not:
         (a)   Include an area with a food or drink dispensing facility
intended for use by all employees;
         (b)   Include a restroom commonly used by nonsmoking employees; or
         (c)   Be located in a common employee work area.
   (E)   Sign required.  An employer shall post a sign in each employee smoking
area stating that the area is a designated smoking area.  The sign must be
visible to employees and to the public.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.05  REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking is prohibited within a reasonable distance of ten feet outside an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited so as to ensure that tobacco smoke
does not enter the area through entrances, windows, ventilation systems, or
other means.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.06  WHERE SMOKING NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of §§
94.01 through
94.13 to the contrary, the following areas shall be exempt from the provisions
of §§
94.03 and
94.04;
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed child care, adult
day care, or health care facility;
   (B)   Private vehicles, except when used in conjunction with a licensed
daycare, adult day care facility, or health care facility;
   (C)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms; provided, however, that not more than 20% of rooms rented to
guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated;
   (D)   Outdoor areas of places of employment except those covered by the
provisions of §
94.05;
   (E)   Designated smoking areas.  The owner/operator of a public place may
establish a designated public smoking area within a public area and/or a
designated employee smoking area within a nonpublic area of a public place in
compliance with the following specifications:
      (1)   Separate ventilation.  The designated smoking area must be equipped
with a physical barrier that separates the designated smoking area from the
nonsmoking area with separate ventilation. The physical barrier must form an
effective membrane continuous from outside wall to outside wall, from smoke
barrier to smoke barrier, from floor to floor or roof above, or a combination
thereof, including continuity through all concealed spaces, such as above
suspended ceilings, interstitial structural and mechanical spaces. Transfer
grilles, louvers, and similar openings shall not be used in these partitions. 
Self-closing, tight-fitting doors are permitted in such barriers.
      (2)   Negative pressure.  The ventilation system must be a HVAC system
designed by a licensed professional engineer to have negative pressure on the
area designated for smoking to prevent air from a smoking area to be drawn
across or into a nonsmoking area and to have sufficient capacity to remove
tobacco smoke from the interior of the building at the rate of one cubic foot
per minute per square foot of area.
      (3)   Access to designated smoking area.  The designated smoking area
shall not be positioned in a location that would require anyone entering
through the main entrance of the building to pass through the designated
smoking area.
      (4)   Restrooms.  If restroom areas are not provided in both the smoking
and nonsmoking designated areas, they shall be located in the nonsmoking area,
such that nobody attempting to access the restrooms will be required to enter
into the designated smoking area.
      (5)   Square-footage limitation on designated smoking areas. 
         (a)   Public areas.  The designated smoking area located in a public
area of a public place, except for a bingo facility, shall not exceed 25% of
the square footage of the combined public areas within the public place.
         (b)   Bingo facilities.   The designated smoking area located in a
public area of a bingo facility, where minors are permitted, shall not exceed
80% of the square footage of the public area.
         (c)   Employee smoking areas.   A designated employee smoking area
located within a non-public area of a public place shall not be restricted as
to area so long as it otherwise complies with the provision of this chapter and
§
94.04.
   (F)   Outdoor patio areas beyond ten feet of a public entrance of any
establishment or facility where food is served;
   (G)   Retail tobacco stores;
   (H)   Nightclubs and bars; however, these facilities shall be required to
install a commercial air cleaning system having sufficient capacity to remove
tobacco smoke from the interior of the building at the rate of one cubic foot
per minute per square foot of area; and
   (I)   Bingo facilities that prohibit minors from entering or occupying the
premises during public hours.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.07  DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NONSMOKING.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of §§
94.01 through
94.13, an owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of an
establishment, facility, or outdoor area may declare that the entire
establishment, facility, or outdoor area is a nonsmoking place.  Smoking shall
be prohibited in any place in which a sign conforming to the requirements of §
94.08(A) is posted.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.08  POSTING SIGNS. 
   (A)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “NO SMOKING” symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by §§
94.01 through
94.13, by the owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of that
place. The lettering of the sign will be not less than one inch in height.
   (B)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by §§
94.01 through
94.13 shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly stating
that smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia shall be removed from any
area where smoking is prohibited by §§
94.01 through
94.13 by the owner, operator, manager, or other person having control of the
area.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.09  MINORS PROHIBITED FROM ENTERING SMOKING AREAS. 
   Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, minors are prohibited
from entering any designated public smoking area, any designated employee
smoking area, and/or any other area where smoking is not regulated pursuant to
§§
94.01 through
94.13.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.10  ENFORCEMENT. 
   (A)   The Building Official of the city shall be responsible for compliance
with §§
94.01 through
94.13. The Police Department and/or Fire Department may, while an establishment
is undergoing inspections, inspect for compliance with §§
94.01 through
94.13.
   (B)   The owner, operator, person in charge or manager of any facility,
business, or agency within the purview of this chapter shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of §§
94.01 through
94.13 an employee or private citizen may bring legal action to enforce §§
94.01 through
94.13, provided, however, that the exclusive remedy for private enforcement is
by injunctive relief.
   (D)   The Building Official, in his or her sole discretion, may enforce this
chapter by any of the following actions.  The remedies contained herein are
cumulative of and in addition to any other remedies that are available to Wake
Village, Texas, at law or in equity:
      (1)    Serving written notice on the owner, operator, person in charge or
manager of any facility, business, or agency within the purview of this chapter
requiring the correction within a reasonable specified time frame of any
violation of this chapter;
      (2)   Requesting the City Attorney to maintain an action for injunction
to enforce the provisions of this chapter, to cause the correction of any such
violation and for assessment and recovery of a civil penalty of the violation
including attorney’s fees; or
      (3)   Requesting the Police Department to issue a Municipal Court
citation.
   (E)   In undertaking the enforcement of this chapter, Wake Village, Texas,
is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general health, safety, and
welfare of its citizens.  Wake Village, Texas, is not assuming any duty or
obligation, nor is it imposing any duty and/or obligation on its officer and/or
employees, nor is it liable in money damage or otherwise to any person who
claims that:
      (1)   Wake Village, Texas, and/or one of its officers and/or employees
breached any such obligation; and
      (2)   The breach proximately caused injury.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.11  PUBLIC EDUCATION. 
   The city shall engage in a continuing program to explain and clarify the
purposes and requirements of §§
94.01 through
94.13 to citizens affected by it, and to guide owners, operators, and managers
in their compliance with it.  The program may include publication of a brochure
for affected businesses and individuals explaining the provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.13.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.12  GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY COOPERATION. 
   The city shall annually request other governmental and educational agencies
having facilities within the city to establish local operating procedures in
cooperation and compliance with §§
94.01 through
94.13.  This includes urging all federal, state, city, and school district
agencies to update their existing smoking control regulations to be consistent
with the current health findings regarding secondhand smoke.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.13  OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS. 
   Sections
94.01 through
94.13 shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where it is
otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.14  LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION. 
   Sections
94.01 through
94.13 shall be liberally construed so as to further their purposes.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.15  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect 180 days from its passage and
approval.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 94.99  PENALTY. 
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.13 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine not exceeding
$200.  Each day of any violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   A person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.13 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $50 for a first violation;
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a second violation within one year of
the previous violation; and
      (3)   A fine not exceeding $250 for each additional violation within one
year of the previous violation.
   (C)   Each day on which a violation of §§
94.01 through
94.13 occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 5-06, passed 4-10-2006)
CHAPTER 95:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.03   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
95.04   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
95.05   Exemptions and exclusions
   
95.06   Fair Housing Administrator
   
95.07   Complaints
   
95.08   Investigation
   
95.09   Cumulative legal effect
   
95.10   Unlawful intimidation
   
95.11   Cooperation with Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
   
95.12   Education and public information
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.  When not
inconsistent with the context, words so used in the present tense include the
future, words in the masculine include the feminine, words in the plural
include the singular, and words in the singular include the plural.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE.  An act that is unlawful under §§
95.02 through
95.04.
   DWELLING.  Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as
or designated and intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more
families, or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location thereon of any building, structure, or portion
thereof.
   FAMILY.  Includes a single individual.
   PERSON.  Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees,
fiduciaries, and any other organization or entity of whatever character.
   TO RENT.  Includes to rent, lease, sublease, let, or otherwise grant for a
consideration, the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 24-80, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 95.02  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   Except as exempted by §
95.05, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, sex, religion, or
national origin;
   (B)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provisions of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, sex, religion, or
national origin;
   (C)   Make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published, any
notice, statement, or advertisement regarding the sale or rental of a dwelling
that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on race,
color, sex, religion, or national origin, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   Represent to any person because of race, color, sex, religion, or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or
rental when the dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit or with the hope or expectation of profit, induce or
attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling by representations
regarding the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or
persons of a particular race, color, sex, religion, or national origin;
   (F)   For profit or with the hope or expectation of profit, to influence, or
attempt to influence, by any words, acts or failures to act, any seller,
purchaser, landlord, or tenant of a dwelling, so as to promote the maintenance
of racially segregated housing or so as to retard, obstruct, or discourage
racially integrated housing.
(Ord. 24-80, passed 12-8-1980)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03  DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise, whose business
consists in whole or in part of the making of commercial or residential real
estate loans, to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying
therefor, for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or to discriminate against any such person in the
fixing of the amount, interest rate, brokerage points, duration, or other terms
or conditions of the loan or other financial assistance, because of:
   (A)   The race, color, sex, religion, or national origin of the person or of
any person associated with him or her in connection with the loan or other
financial assistance; or
   (B)   The race, color, sex, religion, or national origin of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings
for which the loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given.
(Ord. 24-80, passed 12-8-1980)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deny access or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the access, membership or participation on account of race,
color, sex, religion, or national origin.
(Ord. 24-80, passed 12-8-1980)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05  EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   There shall be exempted from the application of §
95.02 all transactions involving:
      (1)   The rental of units in dwellings containing living quarters
occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living
independently of each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of
the units as his or her residence;
      (2)   The rental of a single room in a dwelling containing living
quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than one family if the
person offering the room for rental actually maintains and occupies the
remainder of the dwelling as his or her residence and not more than four such
rooms are offered;
      (3)   The sale or rental of any single house by a private individual who
owns the house, provided that all of the following apply:
         (a)   The sale or rental is made without the use in any manner of the
sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate
broker, agent, salesperson, or of the facilities or services of any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent, salesperson, or person;
         (b)   The sale is made without the publication, posting, or mailing of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.02(C) of this chapter (this shall not prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow
agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional assistance as
necessary to perfect or transfer the title);
         (c)   The owner does not own more than three single-family houses at
the time of sale;
         (d)   The owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title
to or any right to all or any portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental
of more than three such single-family houses at any one time; and
         (e)   If the owner does not reside in the house at the time of sale or
was not the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption
granted by this division shall apply only with respect to one such sale within
any 24-month period.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious association or
society from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in the
religion is restricted on account of race, color, sex, or national origin.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a bona fide private club, not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose,
provides lodging which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose,
from limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall bar any person from owning and operating
a housing accommodation in which a room or rooms are leased, subleased, or
rented only to persons of the same sex, when such housing accommodations
contains common lavatory, kitchen, or similar facilities available for the use
of all persons occupying the housing accommodation.
(Ord. 24-80, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 95.06  FAIR HOUSING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor shall appoint and the City Council shall confirm a Wake Village
Fair Housing Administrator (hereinafter referred to as the Administrator) who
shall have the responsibility for implementing this chapter.  The Administrator
may delegate his or her authority to investigate and conciliate complaints to
other county employees under his or her direction.
(Ord. 24-80, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 95.07  COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Only the person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that has occurred or is occurring (hereafter
referred to as the person aggrieved) may file a complaint with the
Administrator.  The complaints shall be in writing and shall identify the
person alleged to have committed or alleged to be committing a discriminatory
housing practice and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based.  The Administrator shall prepare
complaint forms and furnish them without charge to any person upon request.
   (B)   If at any time the Administrator shall receive or discover credible
evidence and shall have probable cause to believe that any person or persons
have committed or are committing a discriminatory housing practice as to which
no complaint has been filed, the Administrator may prepare and file a complaint
upon his or her own motion and in his or her own name, and the complaint shall
thereafter be treated in the same manner as a complaint filed by a person
aggrieved.
   (C)   The Administrator shall receive and accept notification and referral
complaints from the U.S. Attorney General and the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development pursuant to the provisions of Title VIII, Fair Housing Act of
1968, Pub. L. No. 90-284, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., and shall treat the
complaints hereunder in the same manner as complaints filed pursuant to
division (A) of this section.
   (D)   All complaints shall be filed within 60 days following the occurrence
of an alleged discriminatory housing practice.  Upon the filing or referral of
any complaint, the Administrator shall provide notice of the complaint by
furnishing a copy of the complaint to the person or persons named therein who
allegedly committed or were threatening to commit an alleged discriminatory
housing practice.  The accused may file an answer to the complaint within 15
days of receipt of the written complaint.
   (E)   All complaints and answers shall be subscribed and sworn to before an
officer authorized to administer oaths.
(Ord. 24-80, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 95.08  INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon the filing or referral of a complaint as herein provided, the
Administrator shall cause to be made a prompt and full investigation of the
matter stated in the complaint.
   (B)   During or after the investigation, but subsequent to the mailing of
the notice of the complaint, the Administrator shall, if it appears that a
discriminatory housing practice has occurred, or is threatening to occur,
attempt by informal endeavors to effect conciliation, including voluntary
discontinuance of the discriminatory housing practice and adequate assurance of
future voluntary compliance with the provisions of this chapter.  Nothing said
or done in the course of the informal endeavors may be made public by the
Administrator, by the complainant, or by any other party to the proceedings
without the written consent of all persons concerned.
   (C)   Upon completion of the investigation and informal endeavors at
conciliation by the Administrator, but within 30 days of the filing of the
complaint with the Administrator, if the efforts of the Administrator to secure
voluntary compliance have been unsuccessful, and if the Administrator has made
a determination that a discriminatory housing practice has in fact occurred,
the Administrator shall recommend to the City Attorney that the violation be
prosecuted in the Municipal Court of Wake Village, Bowie County, Texas.  With
the recommendation, the Administrator shall refer his or her entire file to the
City Attorney.  The City Attorney shall, within 30 days after the referral make
a determination as to whether to proceed with prosecution of the complaint in
the Municipal Court of Wake Village, Texas.  If the City Attorney decides to
prosecute, he or she shall institute a complaint and prosecute the same to
conclusion within 30 days after the determination, or as soon as legally
practicable.
(Ord. 24-80, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 95.09  CUMULATIVE LEGAL EFFECT.
   This chapter is cumulative in its legal effect and is not in lieu of any and
all other legal remedies which the person aggrieved may pursue.
(Ord. 24-80, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 95.10  UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harass, threaten, harm, damage or
otherwise penalize any individual, group, or business because he or she or they
have complied with the provisions of this chapter, because he or she or they
have exercised his, her or their rights under this chapter, or enjoyed the
benefits of this chapter, or because he or she or they have made a charge,
testified or assisted in any manner in any investigation, or in any proceeding
hereunder or have made any report to the Administrator.
(Ord. 24-80, passed 12-8-1980)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11  COOPERATION WITH SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT.
   The Administrator and the City Attorney are authorized to cooperate with the
Secretary for Housing and Urban Development and the U.S. Attorney General
pursuant to the provisions of Title VIII, Fair Housing Act of 1968, Pub. L. No.
90-284, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., and may render such service to the
Secretary as they shall deem appropriate to further the policies of this
chapter.
(Ord. 24-80, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 95.12  EDUCATION AND PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   In order to further the objectives of this chapter, the Administrator may
conduct educational and public information programs.
(Ord. 24-80, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined a
sum not to exceed $200 for each violation.  Each day a violation continues
after passage of 75 days from date of the filing of the initial complaint with
the Administrator shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter may be enjoined by a suit filed by the City Attorney in a court of
competent jurisdiction, and this remedy is in addition to any other penalty
provision.
(Ord. 24-80, passed 12-8-1980)
CHAPTER 96:  STREETS AND PARKS
Section
General Regulations
   
96.01   Use of right-of-way to install sprinkler systems
   
96.02   Obstruction of street prohibited
King Park and Related Facilities
   
96.15   Bicycles/skateboards on walking paths prohibited
   
96.16   Written request to use facilities; certificate of insurance
Little League Ballfield
   
96.30   One point of contact for schedules and usage
   
96.31   Held responsible for cleaning; fee or deposit
   
96.32   Individual fields designated for individual organizations
   
96.33   Signage
   
96.34   Precedence to field users
   
96.35   Minimum age requirement for batting practice
   
96.36   Ballfield requirements
   
96.37   Motorcycles in ballpark
 
   
96.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Agreement for Use of Right-of-Way
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 96.01  USE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY TO INSTALL SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Any person who owns real estate adjacent to the city, who desires to
install a sprinkler system on his or her real estate, and desires further to
install a part of the system on the city-owned or -licensed right-of-way, shall
comply with the terms of this section prior to doing so.
   (B)   The applicant for use of the right-of-way shall make application
through the City Secretary, by request for a building permit, along with a
letter application accompanied by plans and specifications to scale, showing
the location of pipes and sprinkler heads, and a statement from the installer
of the sprinkler system that part of the sprinkler system must be installed in
the right-of-way in order to operate properly.  No application shall be
accepted by the City Secretary unless all of the requirements are met.
   (C)   The City Superintendent shall review the application on receipt to
determine whether it complies with this section and that it is reasonably
necessary that the sprinkler system be installed in the city right-of-way. 
Within seven days of its receipt, the City Superintendent shall approve or deny
the application.  If the application is not approved within seven days, it
shall be deemed denied.  Any applicant who is not granted an application may
appeal the decision of the City Superintendent to the City Council, within
seven days of the denial.  The appeal shall be set on the agenda of the next
regular Council meeting.  The City Council shall review the application to
determine whether the application complies with this section, and that it is
reasonably necessary that the sprinkler system be installed in the city right-
of-way, prior to approval.
   (D)   If the City Superintendent or City Council grants the application, the
owner shall be required to execute an agreement for use of right-of-way, a
blank copy of which is included in Appendix A to this chapter for reference,
prior to being granted a building permit, or proceeding with laying the
sprinkler system.  The instrument shall also be executed by the City
Superintendent as evidence of the issuance of the city’s approval of the
application.
   (E)   If any owner of any real estate, citizen, sprinkler installer,
contractor, or other person shall order, permit, direct, or allow the
installation of a sprinkler system on the city-owned or -licensed right-of-way,
without the permission of the city, that person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to the provisions of §
96.99.
   (F)   The City Superintendent shall notify all persons seeking to build
sprinkler systems encroaching on the right-of-way of this section and its
terms, and shall report all violations of this section to the Chief of Police
for appropriate action.  All violations not remedied shall be further reported
to the City Attorney, Mayor, and City Council to determine whether injunctive
relief should be sought from the District Court.
(Ord. 29-83, passed 10-24-1983)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02  OBSTRUCTION OF STREET PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to any extent, entirely or in
part, to obstruct or encumber any portion including vertical airspace of any
public right-of-way, street, alley, sidewalk, or public ground in the city. 
Specifically prohibited, and for example purposes only, are basketball goals
and other like structures or devices.
   (B)   The city may remove an encroachment or obstruction on a public right-
of-way, street, alley, sidewalk or public ground in the city.
(Ord. 4-12, passed 3-12-2012)  Penalty, see §
96.99
KING PARK AND RELATED FACILITIES
§ 96.15  BICYCLES/SKATEBOARDS ON WALKING PATHS PROHIBITED.
   Bicycles, skates, skateboards, roller blades, or any other equipment deemed
hazardous shall not be allowed on the walking paths, playground equipment, or
structures in King Park in the city.
(Ord. 18-88, passed 8-22-1988; Ord. 5-03, passed 8-11-2003)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.16  WRITTEN REQUEST TO USE FACILITIES; CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
   (A)   This section shall be known and may be cited as the ordinance
regulating the use of King Park and related facilities.
   (B)   Any group, organization, or individual wanting to use the Park or
related facilities for commercial, political, fraternal or any other type
activity not normally associated with regular activities of a park, will submit
a written request to the City Administrator which states the individual, group
or organization name; the date or dates of requested use of the Park;
descriptions of function that request is made for; hours of use for each day
requested.  The written request shall be reviewed by the City Administrator,
who shall either grant or deny the request confirmed by the Mayor. The written
request shall be submitted to the City Administrator no less than 72 hours
prior to the date of the requested use of the facilities. Failure to file an
application 72 hours in advance will not result in automatic denial of the
permit, provided that the applicant shows reasonable grounds why the
application could not be filed 72 hours in advance.
   (C)   Each individual, group, or organization authorized by Council to use
the Park or related facilities will provide the city with a certificate of
insurance for a commercial general liability policy in the amount as provided
on a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council
from time to time, per occurrence, and as provided on a fee schedule maintained
by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time, aggregate
from an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of Texas, before
any use of the Park or related facility takes place.
(Ord 4-96, passed 4-8-1996)
LITTLE LEAGUE BALLFIELD
§ 96.30  ONE POINT OF CONTACT FOR SCHEDULES AND USAGE.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall designate one point of contact for schedules and
field usage.  A person at City Hall would be in charge of assigning the field
(s) to organizations that qualify.  Each organization must submit a schedule of
field usage to the city point of contact for their entire playing season. 
      (2)   ORGANIZATIONS WHO QUALIFY means has a board of directors, league
insurance, by-laws, constitution and the like, and other requirements as
directed by the City Council.
(Ord. 18-97, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 96.31  HELD RESPONSIBLE FOR CLEANING; FEE OR DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The city shall mandate that all organizations and any groups that
schedule and use the ballfields be held responsible for returning the field
clean and in good order.  Recommend that this be accomplished by fee or deposit
for field usage. 
   (B)   A fee of $50 if lights are used or fields are prepared as described in
§
96.32 below.  A deposit if no field preparation is required and no lights are
used.  Deposit may be forfeited if property is damaged or area littered.
(Ord. 18-97, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 96.32  INDIVIDUAL FIELDS DESIGNATED FOR INDIVIDUAL ORGANIZATIONS.
   The city shall consider designating individual fields to different
organizations petitioning to use them at various times during the year.  These
organizations would be responsible for scheduling their individual games but
would be required to submit a master plan which will include a schedule of
games, practice schedule and estimated number of rain-out, make-up games to the
city of record.  Each organization should be responsible for getting the field
ready for game play (i.e. chalking lines, placing bases and the like).  The
city crews would only be responsible for mowing, dragging infields, and other
general upkeep and field maintenance.  Also recommend that the city stockpile
sand and any other maintenance items necessary to assist field users when
maintenance needs to be done during times when city crews are not available.
(Ord. 18-97, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 96.33  SIGNAGE.
   The city shall purchase and erect signs at all ballfields stating that the
field must be scheduled for use through City Hall during normal business hours.
(Ord. 18-97, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 96.34  PRECEDENCE TO FIELD USERS. 
   (A)   The primary users of the fields will be organizations who serve the
youth and adults of Wake Village and are open to all who wish to participate. 
The citizens of Wake Village will be allowed use of the fields when not already
scheduled by organized groups or other citizens.  We recommend that no
organized group (ball league) be able to have exclusive rights to the fields
for practice or games on Sundays.  Field usage for Sundays must be scheduled
through the City Hall point of contact by individual teams, church groups, and
families on a first-come first-serve basis.  Recommend that the same rule apply
for Saturdays with the exception of special tournaments and makeup games that
may occur during the primary ball playing season.
   (B)   The Wake Village City Council reserves the right to oversee and assign
concession stands to ensure fair operations to each league.  A maintenance
deposit as provided on a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted
by the City Council from time to time, will be required for the use of
concession stands.  Leagues which the City Council has granted use of
concession stands will be exempt from this deposit during their scheduled
league play and tournaments.
(Ord. 18-97, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 96.35  MINIMUM AGE REQUIREMENT FOR BATTING PRACTICE.
   It is also ordered that no age group above ten and under use King 3
ballfield for batting practice or games due to a redundant problem of balls
being hit into Carroll Street and related homes causing personal and property
damage.
(Ord. 18-97, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 96.36  BALLFIELD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following ballfield requirements will be posted at all ballfields.
   “BALLFIELD REQUIREMENTS:
      1.   All qualified organizations wishing to obtain a seasonal permit must
submit a master schedule to City Hall prior to start of season.
      2.   Users not belonging to a qualified organization wishing to reserve a
field for a particular time and date will be required to get a permit from City
Hall.
      3.   Daytime use of fields will be available for non-permit holders on a
first-come first-serve basis or when fields are not being used by a permit
holder at their scheduled time.
      4.   Violators of this policy will be prosecuted in accordance to
Ordinance No. 18-97.
      5.   The city reserves the right to over-ride any or all scheduling at
any time.
      6.   Any person or persons caught violating any provision of this
ordinance, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine as provided on a fee
schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from
time to time, or suspension from use of facilities for any length of time
deemed reasonable by the Municipal Court of Wake Village, Texas.”
(Ord. 18-97, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 96.37  MOTORCYCLES IN BALLPARK.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful to operate a motorcycle on Lot 3, Block 7,
Wake Village Subdivision, commonly referred to as Little League Ball Park and
Practice Field.
(Ord. 11-74, passed 6-12-1974)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person violate the provisions of §
96.01, that person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by fine not
more than $200 per violation, by the Municipal Court of the city.  Each day the
unpermitted actions shall take place, or any sprinkler system or part of such a
system shall be on any part of the right-of-way, without the permission of the
city in accordance with this section shall constitute a separate violation.
   (C)   Persons who violate §
96.15 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200 per occurrence.
   (D)   Violations of ballfield regulations are set forth in §
96.36.
   (E)   Any person violating the provision of §
96.37 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction in the
Municipal Court shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $200.
   (F)   Any person violating the provision of §
96.02 shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor.  Each day the violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 11-74, passed 6-12-1974; Ord. 29-83, passed 10-24-1983; Ord. 18-88,
passed 8-22-1988; Ord. 18-97, passed 7-28-1997; Ord. 5-03, passed 8-11-2003;
Ord. 4-12, passed 3-12-2012)
APPENDIX A:  AGREEMENT FOR USE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY
   On this the             day of                   , 20      , the parties
hereto, The City of Wake Village, Texas, hereinafter referred to as the City
and                               , hereinafter referred to as the Owner,
entered into this agreement for the use of certain right-of-way of the City by
the Owner in recognition of the following facts and according to the following
terms and conditions:
                                        is the owner of Lot No.           
Block                          also known as                                  
      Wake Village,  Bowie County, Texas.
   The City of Wake Village, Texas is an incorporated city under the general
laws of the State of Texas.
   The Owner desires to install a lawn sprinkler system in accordance with the
plans and specifications attached to this agreement and made a part hereof to
be partially installed in a right-of-way owned by the City of Wake Village,
Bowie County, Texas.
   The parties hereby understand and agree that the Owner shall be allowed to
place sprinkler heads and lines in the right-of-way area owned by the City, and
operate the system under the conditions as hereafter set out.
   The Owner understands and agrees that he or she will remove all sprinkler
heads and water lines in the sprinkler system and any other wires, components,
or parts thereof at any time the city requires access to the right-of-way for
any reason.  The Owner will be liable and responsible for all expenses and
costs incurred in the removal and replacement of the water lines and the City
shall not be liable and responsible for any costs, damages and expenses or
other amounts due or claim due as a result of its ordinary and necessary use of
the right-of-way.
   The parties further understand and agree that this allowed usage shall be a
covenant, running with the land in such a way that a future owner will have the
right to continue to use the right-of-way for the placement of water
sprinklers, lines, wires, and other components as shown on the plans and
specifications but shall be also liable for the removal, cost of the removal,
and replacements of the sprinkler, wires, lines, and other components, at his
or her expense, should that be necessary.
   The City shall give as a matter of policy 24-hours’ notice to the Owner or
any successive Owner prior to its entry on the right-of-way unless the entry is
necessitated by the need to make an emergency repair or modification.  The
Owner shall be responsible for removal of the system and further agrees that,
in the event that there are emergency repairs or emergency modifications
necessary, the City may remove the system as required in order to enter the
right-of-way and that all costs of replacement and repairs shall be at the
expense of the Owner.
   The parties further understand and agree that the City incurs no liability,
expense, cost, damages and the Owner binds himself, his or her successors and
assigns and future owners of the realty to hold the City harmless and reimburse
the City for any suits, damages, costs and expenses, due or alleged to be due
as a result of the installation or operation of the sprinkler system in the
right-of-way.
   Signed by the parties hereto on the              day of             , 20___.
APPROVED:                  AGREED:
                                                                              
                             
City Superintendent               Owner
   ACKNOWLEDGMENT
   On this the              day of             ,  20              there
appeared before me                             , known to me to be a credible
person and being the person whose name is subscribed to the above and foregoing
instrument, as the owner of the described premises, who on his or her oath
deposed and said that the facts contained herein were true and correct and that
he or she had executed the instrument for the purposes and considerations
herein expressed and that he or she signed the instrument in my presence.
                                                                 
                  Notary Public, In and For
                  Bowie County, Texas
                  My Commission Expires                    
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
111.   SALES REGULATIONS
      
112.   SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, TRANSIENT VENDORS
      
113.   MASSAGE PARLORS
      
114.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Bond requirement for HVAC contractors
   
110.02   Cable Television Regulations; adoption of regulations
   
110.03   Public vehicles
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  BOND REQUIREMENT FOR HVAC CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who designs, installs, constructs,
maintains, services, repairs, alters, or modifies any heating, ventilating, or
air conditioning product, system, or equipment within the City of Wake Village,
Texas, will be required to deposit with the city a good and sufficient bond in
the sum of $1,000, conditioned that the person, firm or corporation engaged in
the business will faithfully observe all the laws pertaining to air
conditioning and heating; further, that the city shall be indemnified and saved
harmless from all claims arising from accidents and damage caused by the
negligence of the person, firm, or corporation, or by any other unfaithful
inadequate work done either by themselves or their agents or employees.
   (B)   The requirement for a bond does not apply to a person who performs air
conditioning work in a building owned solely by him or her as his or her home.
   (C)   The requirement for a bond does not apply to a person who performs air
conditioning contracting and is regularly employed by a regulated electric or
gas utility.
(Ord. 6-86, passed 3-10-1986)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS; ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The regulations previously adopted by the Cable Commission for the
regulation of basic cable television rates and related matters, as the same are
set out in Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 4-94 and for all purposes
incorporated herein, are hereby, in all things, approved and adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein.
   (B)   The aforesaid regulations shall be forwarded to the cable franchisee
(s) for the city, the FCC, and any other entities necessary to ensure the
authority of the Cable Commission to regulate basic cable television rates and
services in the city.
   (C)   The Cable Commission is hereby authorized to implement the aforesaid
regulations as the Cable Commission’s authority is set out therein.
(Ord. 4-94, passed 1-24-1994)
Editor’s note:
   The Cable Commission was established by Ord. 13-93, passed 9-13-1993.
§ 110.03  PUBLIC VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSON.  Includes both singular and plural and shall mean and embrace any
person, firm, or corporation, their agents, servants, and employees.
      PUBLIC VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle operated within the corporate limits
of the city for the purpose of carrying passengers for hire, except motor buses
operating on a fixed route as hereinafter specified, specially chartered buses,
and rental cars.  The term shall also include motor-driven vehicles with or
without a taximeter and hired or rented where rates are charges on a time basis
or otherwise.
      STREET.  Any street, alley, avenue, land, public place, or highway within
the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   No public vehicle shall hereafter operate for the transportation of
persons as passengers for compensation or hire within the corporate limits of
the city, without having first obtained from the City Council of the city,
under the provisions of this section, a permit.
   (C)   Application for permit, for the operation of public vehicles within
the city, shall be made to the City Council and shall set forth the name and
address of the applicant, the trade-name under which the applicant does or
proposes to do business, the number of vehicles the applicant desires to
operate, the seating capacity, whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of the violation of any national, state, or municipal law, and whether or not
the applicant or any person, firm, or corporation with which he or she has been
associated or employed has claims or judgments against him or her for damages
resulting from the negligent operation of a public vehicle, the financial
ability and responsibility of the applicant, his or her ability to respond in
the event of injury to person or damage to property by reason of the negligent
operation of a public vehicle, and if the applicant is a firm or corporation,
its organization, personnel, the nature and character of service that the
application proposes to render, facts showing the demand for such service, the
experience that the applicant has had in rendering such service and the period
of time that he or she has rendered it in the city, and any other information
as may be required by the City Council.
   (D)   The City Council shall make or cause to be made any investigation as
it may consider necessary, including any hearings that it may deem desirable as
to any application for the permit, and shall determine whether or not the
public convenience and necessity require the operation of the vehicle or
vehicles, and whether or not the applicant is fit and proper to conduct the
business, and may investigate the fitness of the officers and stockholders of
any corporation making such application and in  determining whether or not a
permit should be issued.
   (E)   If the City Council finds that public convenience and necessity
require the operation of a greater or lesser number of vehicles than that for
which the applicant has applied, and the applicant is fit to conduct the
business and that the other requirements herein have been complied with, it
shall notify the applicant of its findings.  If it finds that public
convenience and necessity do not require the operation of any such vehicle or
that the applicant is not fit to conduct the business, it shall forthwith
refuse the applicant and no permit shall be issued to the applicant.  The
permit shall not be transferable without the consent and approval of the City
Council and then only after application and hearing, as provided upon original
application by the person to whom the permit is issued.  But the applicant may,
by appropriate endorsement made on the permit under the direction of the City
Council, substitute another vehicle or vehicles in the place of that for which
the permit was granted.  It is further provided that, should the City Council
find that public convenience and necessity at any time required additional
taxicab service, preference shall be given to the person or company operating
the existing service, should they be willing to furnish it.
   (F)   This section shall apply only to vehicles operating within the
corporate limits of the city, and it shall not affect motor vehicles  operating
under a permit or certificate of the Railroad Commission of the State of Texas,
or the Interstate Commerce Commission.
   (G)   Any person, firm, association of persons or corporation, owning,
operating, or controlling any taxicabs within the limits of the city shall
charge rates as set by City Council from time to time for the following:
      (1)   For each passenger, together with all hand-baggage of the
passenger, transported anywhere in the city limits;
      (2)   Taxicab operated for hire by the hour within the city limits shall
not charge in excess of each hour so used; and
      (3)   For each five minutes waiting time or fraction thereof.
   (H)   All persons, organizations, associations, and corporations using the
streets of the city for the purpose of transporting passengers for hire, as
herein provided, shall, on the first days of February, May, August, and
November of each and every year, file with the City Secretary of the City a
sworn report showing the gross receipts of the business conducted by the
persons, organizations, associations, and corporations within the corporate
limits of the city for the preceding quarter of the year ending on December 31,
March 31, June 30 and September 30, respectively, and upon the date the sworn
report is filed as a condition to the further use of the streets shall pay to
the city a rental equal to 2% of the gross receipts received during the
preceding quarter of the business conducted within the corporate limits of the
city.  Any permittee shall keep a book in which is posted each call and the
amount of fare charged therefor, which book or books shall be accessible to the
City Council at all times.
   (I)   No permit shall be granted until the applicant therefor shall have
deposited with the City Secretary of the city a policy of insurance issued by a
company acceptable to the City Council indemnifying passengers and persons for
loss or damage to property and personal injuries in an amount to be determined
by the City Council.
(Ord. 2-48, passed 1-13-1948)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, either by himself, herself, or agent, and any firm,
corporation, or other entity who violates the provisions of §
110.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction of any such
violation, shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $100; and each day during
which the violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
110.03 shall upon conviction thereof be fined in any sum not less than $5, nor
more than $50, and each violation thereof shall be and is hereby declared to be
a distinct and separate offense and punishable as such.
(Ord. 2-48, passed 1-13-1948; Ord. 6-86, passed 3-10-1986)
CHAPTER 111:  SALES REGULATIONS
Section
Alcoholic Beverages
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Where consumption prohibited
   
111.03   Open containers thrown from vehicle
   
111.04   Hours of operation
   
111.05   Permit or license required
   
111.06   Location of place of business
   
111.07   Place of business distance from church, school or hospital
   
111.08   State law
   
111.09   Variance
Casual Sales, Garage Sales
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   Applicability
   
111.17   Frequency of sales
   
111.18   Permit required
   
111.19   Removal of advertisement
Fireworks, Firecrackers, and Other Incendiary Devices
   
111.35   Definitions
   
111.36   Applicability of provisions
   
111.37   Possession prohibited
   
111.38   Use prohibited
   
111.39   Exceptions from prohibition
   
111.40   Public retail fireworks business in newly annexed area
   
111.41   Supervised displays; permit required; contents of application
   
111.42   Supervised display; presence of Fire Chief
 
   
111.99   Penalty
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.  Alcohol containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume
which is capable of use for beverage purposes, either alone or when diluted.
(Ord. 11-78, passed 6-12-1978)
§ 111.02  WHERE CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED.
   The consumption of any alcoholic beverage on any public street, sidewalk,
park, alley, or other public property or private property commonly used by the
public within the incorporated limits of the city, is unlawful and prohibited
and a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 11-78, passed 6-12-1978)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  OPEN CONTAINERS THROWN FROM VEHICLE.
   The throwing of an open container of the type generally used for alcoholic
beverages from out of any vehicle shall be prima facie evidence that the
occupants thereof were then and there drinking alcoholic beverages in violation
of this subchapter and in itself shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 11-78, passed 6-12-1978)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for a person or business to sell, offer for sale, or
deliver alcoholic beverages sold under a wine and beer retailer's permit or a
wine and beer retailer's off-premise permit except for times between:
   (A)   7:00 a.m. and midnight on any day except Sunday; and
   (B)   On Sunday, between midnight and 2:00 a.m. and between noon and
midnight.
(Ord. 4-16, passed 6-13-2016) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05  PERMIT OR LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell alcoholic beverages in the city unless a permit
or license authorizing such sale is first issued by the Texas Alcoholic
Beverage Commission and remains in effect.
   (B)   No permit or license shall be issued except in compliance with all
state and city regulations.
   (C)   Pursuant to Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code §§ 61.36 and 11.38, a fee
for each issued permit or license to sell alcoholic beverages, the amount of
which shall equal one-half the state fee, is established. The permit or license
fee shall be collected by the city when the permit or license is issued or
renewed. Such permit or license shall be issued annually. Each such permit or
license shall expire on December 31 of the year in which it was issued.
   (D)   A licensee or permittee who sells an alcoholic beverage without first
having paid a fee levied under this section commits a misdemeanor punishable by
a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $200, as laid out in Texas Alcoholic
Beverage Code §§ 61.36 and 11.38.
(Ord. 4-16, passed 6-13-2016) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06  LOCATION OF PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person or business to sell beer in areas of the
city zoned for residential use. Regulations of this section are adopted by the
City Council, acting in its capacity as the governing body of the city,
pursuant to § 109.32 of the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code.
(Ord. 4-16, passed 6-13-2016) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07  PLACE OF BUSINESS DISTANCE FROM CHURCH, SCHOOL OR HOSPITAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or business within the city to sell any
alcoholic beverages within 300 feet of a church, public or private school or
public hospital. The measurement of the distance between the place where
alcoholic beverages are sold and the church or public hospital shall be along
the property lines of the street fronts and from front door to front door, and
in direct line across intersections. The measurement of the distance between
the place of business where alcoholic beverages are sold and the public or
private school shall be in a direct line across intersection, or as otherwise
permitted by state law. Regulations of this section are adopted by the City
Council, acting in its capacity as the governing body of the city, pursuant to
§ 109.33 of the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code.
(Ord. 4-16, passed 6-13-2016) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08  STATE LAW.
   (A)   The Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code is incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   A violation of the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code is a violation of
this subchapter.
   (C)   If any section of this subchapter is in direct conflict with any
provision of the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code, the applicable provision of the
Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code shall govern.
(Ord. 4-16, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 111.09  VARIANCE.
   The City Council may grant a variance from the provisions of this section if
it determines that enforcement of the regulation in a particular instance:
   (A)   Is not in the best interest of the public;
   (B)   Constitutes a waste or inefficient use of land or other resources;
   (C)   Creates an undue hardship on an applicant for a license or permit;
   (D)   Does not serve its intended purpose;
   (E)   Is not effective or necessary; or
   (F)   For any other reason that the City Council, after consideration of the
health, safety and welfare of the public and the equities of the situation
determines is in the best interest of the city.
(Ord. 4-16, passed 6-13-2016)
CASUAL SALES, GARAGE SALES
§ 111.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CASUAL SALES.  Include garage sales, patio sales, yard sales, rummage sales,
and all such sales of merchandise wherein items are displayed for sale, and the
sales are held in other than established businesses. CASUAL SALES shall include
sales of new or used clothes, appliances, furniture, or other
merchandise.
(Ord. 9-76, passed 3-8-1976)
§ 111.16  APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not apply to sales of merchandise by organized and
established business enterprises, complying with all the zoning, taxation, and
other laws of the City of Wake Village, Texas and the State of Texas.
(Ord. 9-76, passed 3-8-1976)
§ 111.17  FREQUENCY OF SALES.
   No person shall conduct or shall there be conducted at any address or
residence, more than four casual sales in any 12-month period.  No person shall
conduct more than two casual sales in any 30-day period. No casual sale shall
last more than three consecutive calendar days.
(Ord. 9-76, passed 3-8-1976)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person who wishes to conduct a casual sale shall first procure a permit
from the City Secretary, by registering his or her name, the times and dates of
the sale, and the address of the sale.
(Ord. 9-76, passed 3-8-1976)
§ 111.19  REMOVAL OF ADVERTISEMENT.
   Any signs, placards, or other outdoor advertisement concerning the sale
shall be removed within 24 hours following the end of the sale.  This
subchapter does not allow the placing of signs in violation of any laws or
ordinances.
(Ord. 9-76, passed 3-8-1976)
FIREWORKS, FIRECRACKERS, AND OTHER INCENDIARY DEVICES
§ 111.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS.  Shall include all incendiary devices sold or offered for sale
for the purpose of entertainment or pyrotechnic or sound displays when ignited,
to include but not limited to Roman candles, fire balloons, flares, shooting
stars, rockets, torpedoes, whistles, and other combinations of the above.  The
term FIRECRACKERS shall include all explosive devices sold or offered for sale
for the purpose of entertainment or sound and/or light displays, when ignited,
including but not limited to artillery simulators, M-80s and Chinese
firecrackers.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 111.36  APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The prohibitions of this subchapter shall not apply to otherwise lawful
sales of ammunition or devices related to firearms, to include gunpowder for
loading of ammunition or muzzleloading, blank cartridges for theatrical
purposes or athletic contests or sports events, for the use of lawful police or
military purpose, or flares used for roadside safety.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 111.37  POSSESSION PROHIBITED.
   No person or entity may sell, give away, or possess, for the purposes of
sale or distribution, any fireworks or firecrackers as have been defined
herein, within the city limits of the City of Wake Village, Texas, at any time.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 1-10-1994)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.38  USE PROHIBITED.
   No fireworks or firecrackers shall be used, ignited, thrown, cast, or fired
in the City of Wake Village at any time.  No fireworks or firecrackers shall be
possessed by any persons within the City of Wake Village, Texas.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 1-10-1994)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.39  EXCEPTIONS FROM PROHIBITION.
   Section
111.38 shall not apply to handheld sparklers nor to the sale of any fireworks
articles by wholesalers to each other, or to the sale of any such article or
articles at wholesale to merchants conducting business entirely outside the
city limits, or to the sale by wholesalers for private or public demonstrations
as hereinafter provided, or to the storage of any such article or articles by
such wholesalers for any of such purposes, or to the sale, storage, or use of
flashlight composition by photographers or dealers in photographic supplies, or
to the sale, storage, or use of blank cartridges for theatrical purposes or for
signal purposes in athletic contests or sports events, or by any police
organization or federal or state militia.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 111.40  PUBLIC RETAIL FIREWORKS BUSINESS IN NEWLY ANNEXED AREA.
   (A)   Section
111.37 shall not apply to a public retail fireworks business in existence at
the time the location of the business is annexed, provided the business
acquires a permit from the office of the Fire Marshal within 90 days from the
date of annexation.
   (B)   The permit to operate a public retail fireworks business shall expire
three years from the date of issuance.
   (C)   The public retail fireworks business shall be exempt from any and all
other Building, Plumbing, and Fire Code provisions of this code for the life of
the permit.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 111.41  SUPERVISED DISPLAYS; PERMIT REQUIRED; CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   Permits for the public or private display of fireworks may be issued by the
Fire Chief; provided, a person desiring to display any fireworks shall apply in
writing to the Fire Chief for a permit at least 15 days in advance of the date
of the proposed display and shall set forth:
   (A)   The name of the organization sponsoring the display together with the
names of persons actually in charge of the firing of the display;
   (B)   The date and time of day at which the display is to be held;
   (C)   The exact location planned for the display;
   (D)   A description setting forth the age, and experience in the display of
fireworks, of the persons who are to do the actual discharging of the
fireworks;
   (E)   The number and kinds of fireworks to be discharged;
   (F)   The manner and place of storage of the fireworks prior to the display;
and
   (G)   A diagram of the grounds on which the display is to be held showing
the point at which the fireworks are to be discharged, the location of all
buildings, highways, telegraph, telephone, or other overhead obstructions and
trees located within 200 yards from the point at which the fireworks are to be
discharged and the lines behind which the audience will be restrained.  The
Fire Chief shall issue the permit once the Fire Chief has determined upon
inspection that the proposed premises as shown in the application shall not be
hazardous to property or endanger any person.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 111.42  SUPERVISED DISPLAY; PRESENCE OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall have the right to be present at the discharge of any
public or private display of fireworks for which a permit has been issued
hereunder and shall have the right to cause the same to be stopped unless it is
conducted in strict accordance with the statements made in the application for
the permit.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor upon conviction and shall be fined any
sum not to exceed $200 per violation.
      (2)   On each separate occasion that a person is observed consuming an
alcoholic beverage in violation of this subchapter or throwing an open
container out as is prohibited by this subchapter shall be considered a
separate violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Except as otherwise stated within §§
111.04 through
111.09, a violation of any section of §§
111.04 -
111.09  shall be punishable under the general penalty provision of §
10.99 of the city’s code.
   (D)   Any person who violates §§
111.15 through
111.19, and any person who permits his or her residence to be used for casual
sales in violation of that subchapter, and any person who participates in any
manner, in a casual sale in violation of that subchapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punishable by the Municipal Court of Wake Village, Texas, not
to exceed  $200 per violation.  Each day or part of a day that a sale is
conducted, whether any items are sold or not, is considered a separate
violation.
   (E)   If any person or entity violates the terms of §§
111.35 through
111.42, that person or entity shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
fined in an amount not to exceed $200 per violation.  Each prohibited sale,
possession, ignition, or use of each item shall constitute a separate
violation, and each day that a prohibited item is sold or possessed shall
constitute a separate violation hereunder.
(Ord. 9-76, passed 3-8-1976; Ord. 11-78, passed 6-12-1978; Ord. 1-94, passed 1-
10-1994; Ord. 4-16, passed 6-13-2016)
CHAPTER 112:  SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, TRANSIENT VENDORS
Section
   
112.01   Prohibition
   
112.02   Permit required
   
112.03   Time restriction of activity
   
112.04   Conviction of theft or moral turpitude
   
112.05   Bond
   
112.06   Duration of permit
   
112.07   Exemption for charitable purposes
   
112.08   Permit fees
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  PROHIBITION.
    No person, firm, association, or organization shall go or permit any person
in its employment or on its behalf to go onto private premises or businesses of
the citizens of Wake Village, Texas, or operate on the streets, alleys, rights-
of-way or public areas in the City of Wake Village, Texas, for the purpose of
selling any merchandise, taking orders, delivering materials or merchandise,
seeking donations, soliciting memberships or any other purpose, at any time,
unless they have the express permission of the owner of the premises or the
city, or have complied with the terms and conditions of this chapter.
(Ord. 22-83, passed 9-12-1983)
§ 112.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person, firm, association, organization, or other entity seeking to do
any of the acts enumerated in this chapter, or any other door-to-door activity,
shall be required to obtain a permit from the City Secretary of the City of
Wake Village, Texas.  In order to obtain a permit, the permit seeker shall be
required to disclose:  his or her name and the full identity and street address
of his or her organization; the full names and identities of all persons who
will be engaged in the activity in the city; the nature of the proposed
activity; and its duration.  No person whose operation involves foodstuffs of
any kind shall be granted a permit until he or she has complied with State and
County Health Department laws and regulations.
(Ord. 22-83, passed 9-12-1983)
§ 112.03  TIME RESTRICTION OF ACTIVITY.
   All permits shall restrict the activities of the permit holders such that
they, their employees, agents and others operating under the permit, may
solicit, vend and operate their enterprise between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
sunset, but in no case later than 7:00 p.m.
(Ord. 22-83, passed 9-12-1983)
§ 112.04  CONVICTION OF THEFT OR MORAL TURPITUDE.
   No permit shall be issued if the person seeking the permit or any person in
the employment of the permit seeker, or any person who will be operating under
the permit, has been convicted of any crime of theft or moral turpitude.  The
term CONVICTION shall include any conviction or sentence which has been
suspended, probated, deferred, or unadjudicated, notwithstanding the conviction
or sentence has been dismissed, paroled, pardoned, or expunged.
(Ord. 22-83, passed 9-12-1983)
§ 112.05  BOND.
   If the permit seeker is soliciting donations or selling merchandise, whether
to be delivered immediately or after the sale, the City Secretary may require a
bond in an amount sufficient to indemnify any and all citizens should the
permit holder not comply with the terms of the sale or contract or other
agreement or obligation.
(Ord. 22-83, passed 9-12-1983)
§ 112.06  DURATION OF PERMIT.
   Permits for itinerant solicitors shall be issued for three days only. 
Permits for permanent businesses may be issued for one year.  The City
Secretary may delay the issuance of a permit for up to three days to verify the
identity and permanent address of the person or organization concerned and the
legitimacy of their enterprise.  The City Secretary may deny a permit to any
person or organization if it is determined that the purpose for which the
permit is sought is not valid, legal, moral, or is otherwise detrimental to the
citizens of the city, or the permit seeker has not complied with this chapter
or has furnished any false information in seeking a permit.  Any permit seeker
aggrieved by a decision of the City Secretary may appeal the decision to the
City Council at its next regular meeting.
(Ord. 22-83, passed 9-12-1983)
§ 112.07  EXEMPTION FOR CHARITABLE PURPOSES.
   The City Secretary of the City of Wake Village, Texas determines that the
permit is sought for religious or charitable purposes, or is being sought for
the performance of neighborhood services by a minor child who is self-employed,
and that the purpose promotes benefits to the citizens of the city and is being
conducted by citizens of the city, he or she may waive the requirement for the
fee stated herein, and may enlarge the time that the permit shall be valid, not
to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 22-83, passed 9-12-1983)
§ 112.08  PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The fees for permits shall be determined by the City Council by
resolution and may be amended from time to time to reflect an amount that is
equitable to the permit seeker, and reflects a fair cost to the city of
granting permits and enforcing this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The fee for a three-day permit, for itinerant solicitors, is set
in an amount to be determined by Council from time to time.
      (2)   An annual fee, in an amount to be determined by Council from time
to time, is set for street vendors with permanent businesses.
(Ord. 22-83, passed 9-12-1983; Res. R22-83, passed 9-26-1983)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Any violation of the terms of this chapter is a misdemeanor and may be
punished as the Municipal Court of the City of Wake Village, Texas may direct,
not to exceed $200 per violation.  Each day that this chapter is violated, each
person violating this chapter and each attempted contact or contact with any
person, business, or entrance into the city shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 22-83, passed 9-12-1983)
CHAPTER 113:  MASSAGE PARLORS
Section
General Regulations
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Exemptions
   
113.03   Grandfather clause
   
113.04   Effective date
Permit Regulations
   
113.15   Permit required
   
113.16   Application for massage business permit
   
113.17   Application for masseur’s permit
   
113.18   Approval by Police Chief
   
113.19   Issuance of massage business permit
   
113.20   Issuance of masseur’s permit
   
113.21   Display of permits
   
113.22   Fees
   
113.23   Separate locations
   
113.24   Return of fee
   
113.25   Suspension and revocation of permits
   
113.26   Keeping of records
   
113.27   Transfer prohibited
Health Regulations, Restrictions
   
113.40   Sanitation and health requirements
   
113.41   Supervision
   
113.42   Persons under age 18 prohibited on premises
   
113.43   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
113.44   Hours
   
113.45   Entrances and exits
   
113.46   Access
   
113.47   Training
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE.  Any person over 18 years of age, other than a masseur, who
renders any service in connection with the operation of a massage business and
receives compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
   MASSAGE.  Any method of treating the superficial parts of a patron for
medical, hygienic, exercise, or relaxation purposes by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating with the hands, feet, or
any instrument.
   MASSEUR.  Any person who engages in the practice of massage as herein
defined for compensation. The use of the masculine gender in this chapter shall
include in all cases the feminine gender as well.
   PATRON.  Any person over 18 years of age who receives a massage under such
circumstances that it is reasonably expected that he or she will pay money or
give any other consideration therefor.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.02  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to hospitals, nursing homes,
sanitariums, or persons holding an unrevoked certificate to practice the
healing arts under the laws of the state, or persons working under the
direction of any such persons or in any such establishment, nor shall this
chapter apply to barbers, cosmetologists, physical therapists, assistant
physical therapists or athletic trainers, lawfully carrying out their
particular profession or business and holding a valid unrevoked license or
certificate of registration issued by the state.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.03  GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   Any person or business regulated by this chapter who or which is conducting
such business on the effective date of this chapter shall be permitted to
continue to conduct business pending decision by the Chief of Police on
applications for permits required hereunder; provided, however, that the
required applications for permits shall have been filed with the Chief of
Police on or before the effective date hereof.  All other provisions of this
chapter shall be applicable to affected existing businesses or persons as of
the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.04  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   That this chapter shall be in full force and effect ten days from and after
the date of its passage and approval.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
PERMIT REGULATIONS
§ 113.15  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Business permit required.  No persons shall engage in or carry out the
business of massage unless he or she has a valid massage business permit issued
by the city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for each and every
separate office or place of business conducted by the person.
   (B)   Masseur’s permit required.  No person shall practice massage as a
masseur, employee or otherwise, unless he or she has a valid and subsisting
masseur’s permit issued to him or her by the city pursuant to the provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.16  APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE BUSINESS PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring a massage business permit shall file a written
application with the Police Chief on a form to be furnished by the Police
Chief.
   (B)   The applicant shall accompany the application with a tender of the
correct permit fee as hereinafter provided and shall, in addition, furnish the
following:
      (1)   The type of ownership of the business, i.e., whether individual,
partnership, corporation, or otherwise;
      (2)   The name, style, and designation under which the business or
practice is to be conducted;
      (3)   The business address and all telephone numbers where the business
is to be conducted,
      (4)   A complete list of the names and residence addresses of all
masseurs and employees in the business and the name and residence addresses of
the manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of the
business;
      (5)   The following personal information concerning the applicant, if an
individual; and concerning each stockholder holding more than 10% of the stock
of the corporation, each officer and each director, if the applicant is a
corporation, and concerning the partners, including limited partners, if the
applicant is a partnership; and the holder of any lien, of any nature, upon the
business and/or the equipment used therein; and concerning the manager or other
person principally in charge of the operation of the business;
         (a)   Name, complete residence address and residence telephone
numbers;
         (b)   The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present
address of the applicant;
         (c)   Written proof of age;
         (d)   Height, weight, color of hair and eyes, and sex;
         (e)   Two frontface portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the
date of the application and at least two by two inches in size;
         (f)   The massage or similar business history and experience ten years
prior to the date of application, including but not limited to whether or not
the person in previously operating in this or another city or state under
license or permit has had the license or permit denied, revoked, or suspended
and the reason therefor, and the business activities or occupations subsequent
to such action of denial, suspension, or revocation;
         (g)   All criminal arrests other than misdemeanor traffic violations,
fully disclosing the jurisdiction in which arrested and the offense for which
arrested and the disposition thereof; and
         (h)   A complete set of fingerprints taken and to be retained on file
by the Police Chief or his or her authorized representatives.
      (6)   Such other information, identification, and physical examination of
the person as shall be deemed necessary by the Police Chief to discover the
truth of the matters hereinbefore required to be set forth in the application;
      (7)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit;
      (8)   The names and addresses of three adult residents of the county who
will serve as character references.  These references must be persons other
than relatives and business associates; and
      (9)   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury,
that the foregoing information contained in the application is true and
correct, the declaration being duly dated and signed in the city.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.17  APPLICATION FOR MASSEUR’S PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring a masseur’s permit shall file a written
application with the Police Chief on a form to be furnished by the Police
Chief.
   (B)   The applicant shall tender with the application the correct permit fee
as hereinafter provided and shall, in addition, furnish the following:
      (1)   The business address and all telephone numbers where the massage is
to be practiced;
      (2)   The following personal information concerning the applicant:
         (a)   Name, complete residence address and residence telephone
numbers;
         (b)   The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present
address of the applicant;
         (c)   Written proof of age;
         (d)   Height, weight, color of hair and eyes, and sex;
         (e)   Two frontface portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the
date of application and at least two inches by two inches in size;
         (f)   The massage or similar business history and experience ten years
prior to the date of application, including but not limited to whether or not
the person in previously operating in this or another city or state under
license or permit has had the license or permit denied, revoked, or suspended
and the reason therefor, and the business activities or occupations subsequent
to the action of denial, suspension, or revocation;
         (g)   All criminal arrests other than misdemeanor traffic violations,
fully disclosing the jurisdiction in which arrested, and the offense for which
arrested and the disposition thereof;
         (h)   A complete set of fingerprints taken and to be retained on file
by the Police Chief or his or her authorized representatives; and
         (i)   A current valid health card issued by the Texarkana-Bowie County
Family Health Center.
      (3)   Such other information, identification, and physical examination of
the person deemed necessary by the Police Chief in order to discover the truth
of the matters hereinbefore required to be set forth in the application;
      (4)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit; and
      (5)   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury,
that the foregoing information contained in the application is true and
correct, the declaration being duly dated and signed in the city.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.18  APPROVAL BY POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   Upon receiving the application for a massage business or masseur’s
permit, the Police Chief shall conduct an investigation into the applicant’s
moral character and personal and criminal history.  The Police Chief may, in
his or her discretion, require a personal interview of the applicant, and any
further information, identification, and physical examination of the person as
shall bear on the investigation.
   (B)   In the case of applications for massage business permits, the Police
Chief shall cause to be conducted an investigation of the premises where the
massage business is to be carried on, for the purposes of assuring that the
premises comply with all the sanitation requirements as set forth in this
chapter and with the regulations of public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   Before any permit shall be issued under this chapter, the Police Chief
shall first sign his or her approval of the application.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.19  ISSUANCE OF MASSAGE BUSINESS PERMIT.
   The Police Chief shall issue a massage business permit within 30 days of
receipt of the application unless he or she finds that:
   (A)   The correct permit fee has not been tendered to the city and, in the
case of a check, or bank draft, honored with payment upon presentation;
   (B)   The operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted, would not
comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited to the city’s
building, zoning, and health regulations;
   (C)   The applicant, if an individual, or any of the stockholders holding
more than 10% of the stock of the corporation, any of the officers and
directors, if the applicant is a corporation, or any of the partners, including
limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership, or the holder of any lien,
of any nature, upon the business and/or the equipment used therein; and the
manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of the business,
have been convicted of any felony or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude
unless such conviction occurred at least five years prior to the date of
application;
   (D)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or fraudulent
statement of fact in the permit application or in any document required by the
city in conjunction therewith;
   (E)   The applicant has had a massage business, masseur, or other similar
permit or license denied, revoked, or suspended by the city or any other state
or local agency within five years prior to the date of the application; and
   (F)   The applicant, if an individual, or any of the officers and directors
if the applicant is a corporation, or any of the partners, including limited
partners, if the applicant is a partnership, or the manager or other person
principally in charge of the operation of the business, is not over the age of
18 years.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.20  ISSUANCE OF MASSEUR’S PERMIT.
   The Police Chief shall issue a masseur’s permit within 15 days of receipt of
the application unless he or she finds that:
   (A)   The correct permit fee has not been tendered to the city and, in the
case of a check or bank draft, honored with payment upon presentation;
   (B)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude,
unless such conviction occurred at least five years prior to the date of the
application;
   (C)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or fraudulent
statement of fact in the permit application or in any document required by the
city in conjunction therewith;
   (D)   The applicant has had a massage business, masseur, or other similar
permit or license denied or suspended by the city or any other state or local
agency within five years prior to the date of application;
   (E)   The applicant is not over the age of 18 years of age;
   (F)   The applicant has not successfully completed three semester hours of
anatomy and physiology at an institution of higher education which is
accredited by a recognized accrediting agency as defined in this chapter;
   (G)   The applicant does not have a valid health certificate card issued
pursuant to these regulations;  and/or
   (H)   The applicant and/or application does not meet all other requirements
of these regulations.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.21  DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   The massage business permittee shall display his or her permit and that of
each and every masseur employed in the establishment in an open and conspicuous
place on the premises of the massage business.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.22  FEES.
   The permit fee for a massage business shall be as provided on a fee schedule
maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to
time, per year.  The permit fee for masseurs shall be as provided on a fee
schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from
time to time, per year.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.23  SEPARATE LOCATIONS.
   Should any massage business have more than one location where the business
of massage is pursued, then a permit, stating both the address of the principal
place of business and of the other location(s), shall be issued by the Chief of
Police upon the tender of a permit fee as provided on a fee schedule maintained
by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time.  Permits
issued for other locations shall terminate on the same date as that of the
principal place of business, regardless of the date of issuance.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.24  RETURN OF FEE.
   No portion of any fee collected under this chapter shall be returned after a
permit has been issued.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.25  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   A massage business permit may be revoked or suspended in any case
where any of the provisions of this chapter are violated, or where any of the
provisions of this chapter are violated, or where any employee of the licensee,
including a masseur, is engaged in any conduct which violates any of the state
laws or local ordinances at permittee’s place of business and the permittee has
actual or constructive knowledge by due diligence.  Such revocation proceedings
shall be as prescribed by division (C) of this section.
   (B)   A masseur’s permit may be revoked or suspended where it appears that
the masseur has been convicted of any offense which would be cause for denial
of a permit upon an original application, or has made a false material
statement on an application for a permit.  Such revocation proceedings shall be
as prescribed by division (C) of this section.
   (C)   Any massage business or masseur’s permit may be suspended or revoked
by the City Council of the City of Wake Village after notice and a hearing for
any cause set forth in this section.  The Police Chief or his or her authorized
agent shall initiate such proceedings by petition to the City Secretary in
writing setting forth specifically the grounds for suspension or revocation
and, if a suspension, the length of time for which the suspension is
requested.  A copy of the petition shall be mailed to the last known address of
the permit holder.  Notice of the time and date of the hearing, against setting
forth the specific grounds upon which the Police Chief’s petition is based,
shall be given in writing by the City Secretary through certified United States
mail to the permittee at his or her last known address at least five days prior
to the date set for a hearing.  The City Council shall, by majority vote,
determine whether or not the permit shall be suspended or revoked and such
action shall be final and conclusive.
   (D)   Any applicant denied a permit shall have the right of appeal to City
Council.  Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Secretary within
ten days after notice of the denial has been mailed to the person’s address as
set forth in the application, a written statement setting forth fully the
grounds for the appeal.  The City Secretary shall provide for a Council Hearing
on such appeal at the earliest convenient regular Council Meeting and shall
notify the appellant and the Police Chief of the date and time of such Council
Hearing in the same manner as provided in division (C) of this section.  The
Council shall, by majority vote, either sustain the action of the Police Chief
or issue the permit.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.26  KEEPING OF RECORDS.
   Every person who operates a massage business or provides a massage shall at
all times keep an accurate appointment book(s) in which the name, age, and
current address of each and every patron shall be entered, together with the
date and name of the masseur providing the massage.  Such registration shall be
required prior to the rendering of any massage service to any patron.  The
appointment book shall be available during business hours for inspection, on
the premises of the massage establishment, by the Police Chief and the Director
of Health or their authorized representatives.  The appointment book shall be
kept upon the business premises throughout the permit year and for one year
thereafter.  A new appointment book shall be used for each permit year.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.27  TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   No massage business and masseur permits are transferable, separate or
divisible and such authority as a permit confers shall be conferred only on the
permittee named therein.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
HEALTH REGULATIONS, RESTRICTIONS
§ 113.40  SANITATION AND HEALTH REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All premises used by permittees hereunder shall be periodically
inspected by the Police Chief or his or her authorized representative for
safety of structure and adequacy of plumbing, ventilation, heating, and
illumination.  Floors shall be free from any accumulation of dust, dirt, or
refuse.  Well-marked toilet and hand-washing facilities for permittees,
employees, and patrons shall be provided.  All walls, ceilings, windows, and
doors shall be free of dust, dirt, refuse, or mold.  In high humidity areas,
including toilet rooms, shower rooms, steam rooms, locker rooms and other such
rooms, the walls, ceiling, and floors shall be constructed or covered with a
material that is smooth, nonabsorbent, and easily cleaned.
   (B)   Towels, clothes, and sheets shall not be used for more than one
patron.  Heavy, white paper may be substituted for sheets provided that such
paper is changed for every patron.  Soiled linens and towels shall be stored in
a clearly marked covered receptacle and shall not be reused prior to
laundering.  Any individual performing any duties at a massage business that
may bring him or her into contact with patrons of the business or with the
towels, cloths, sheets, or paper, if such is substituted for cloth, shall have
a current valid health card issued by the Bowie County Family Health Center on
his or her person at all times during the business hours.  No animals shall be
permitted within a massage business at anytime.
   (C)   All equipment used for the treatment of patrons shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition, and the equipment shall be kept in a good and
safe state of repair at all times.
   (D)   Male masseurs shall wear all white slacks and shirt; and female
masseurs shall wear an all white dress or all white slacks and blouse while
engaged in the treatment of the patron.  An all white surgical gown or smock
may be substituted.  The clothing shall at least cover the masseur’s pubic
area, perineum, buttocks, natal cleft and entire chest to four inches below the
collarbone.  The masseur’s clothing shall be opaque and shall be kept clean at
all times, and soiled clothing shall not be worn during the treatment of a
patron.  No masseur shall massage a patron whose genitals are exposed during
the treatment; and no patron of a massage business shall knowingly expose his
or her genitals to a masseur during a massage.
   (E)   No massage service or practice shall be carried on within any cubicle,
room, booth, or any area within a massage establishment which is fitted with a
door capable of being locked.  Toilets and cubicles used solely for the
application of liquid and vapor baths shall be clearly marked as to purpose on
the exterior door or curtain of the cubicle, room, or booth.  Nothing contained
herein shall be construed to eliminate other requirements of statute or
ordinance concerning the maintenance of premises, nor to preclude authorized
inspection thereof, whenever such inspection is deemed necessary by the police
or Health Department.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.41  SUPERVISION.
   A permittee shall have the premises supervised at all times when open for
business.  Any business rendering massage services shall have one person who
qualifies as a masseur on the premises at all times while the establishment is
open.  The permittee shall personally supervise the business, and shall not
violate or permit others to violate, any applicable provision of this chapter. 
The violation of any such provision by any agent or employee of the permittee
shall constitute a violation by the permittee.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.42  PERSONS UNDER AGE 18 PROHIBITED ON THE PREMISES.
   No person shall permit any person under the age of 18 years of age to come
or remain on the premises of any massage business establishment, as masseur,
employee, or patron, unless the person is on the premises on lawful business.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.43  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, give, dispense, provide, or keep or cause to be sold,
given, dispensed, provided or kept, any alcoholic beverage on the premises of
any massage business.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.44  HOURS.
   No massage business shall be kept open for any purpose between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.45  ENTRANCES AND EXITS.
   No massage business shall have an entrance or exit way providing a direct
passageway to any other type of business, residence, or living quarters.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.46  ACCESS.
   All massage establishments operating under the authority of this chapter are
declared to be public places, and shall not, during business hours, have the
doors to the exits and entrances of such establishments locked or obstructed in
any way so as to prevent free ingress and egress of persons; provided, however,
such doors may be closed.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.47  TRAINING.
   (A)   No masseur’s permit shall be issued or renewed by the Police Chief
after the effective date of this section to any individual who has not
successfully completed three semester hours of basic anatomy and physiology at
an institution of higher learning accredited by the Southern Association of
Colleges and Universities or the Texas Education Agency, or an equivalent state
accrediting agency or regional association.  A photocopy of the applicant’s
grade record, reflecting successful completion of the course, shall be
submitted to the Police Chief together with the information required by section
of this chapter.  Any individual employed as a masseur as of the day of passage
of the ordinance effecting this chapter and who does not meet the educational
requirements herein shall be issued a temporary permit if the person can show
that he or she is actively engaged or enrolled in a course of study designed to
fulfill the requirements of this section and which course is certified by an
official of the approved school.  The burden of establishing such active
engagement or enrollment shall be upon the person seeking a permit herein.
   (B)   In no event shall any individual within the purview of this chapter be
issued a permit to act as a masseur without satisfying the educational
requirement set forth herein on or after January 1, 1982.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
to be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall upon conviction be punished by a fine
not exceeding $200.
(Ord. 12-81, passed 9-14-1981)
CHAPTER 114:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Classification
   
114.03   License required
   
114.04   Issuance of license
   
114.05   Fees
   
114.06   Expiration of license
   
114.07   Suspension
   
114.08   Revocation
   
114.09   Appeal
   
114.10   Transfer of license
   
114.11   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
114.12   Exemption from location restrictions
   
114.13   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
114.14   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
114.15   Additional regulations for adult theaters and adult motion picture
theaters
   
114.16   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
114.17   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or
videos
   
114.18   Display of sexually explicit material to minors
   
114.19   Enforcement
   
114.20   Injunction
   
114.21   Amendment of this chapter
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE.  Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.  A commercial establishment which as
one of its principal business purposes offers for sale or rental for any form
of consideration any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which depict or describe specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
   ADULT CABARET.  A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL.  A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent more than two times during a period
of time that is less than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
more than once in a ten-hour period.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  A commercial establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or
similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized
by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER.  A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   CHIEF OF POLICE.  The Chief of Police of the City of Wake Village, Texas or
his or her designated agent.
   ESCORT.  A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY.  A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes, for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE.  A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO.  Any place where a person appears in a state of nudity or
displays specified anatomical areas to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons who pay money
or any other form of consideration.
   NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY.  The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
male genitals, female genitals, or female breast.
   PERSON.  An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE.  Aa state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areolae of the female breast, as well as portions
of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER.  A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult video
store, or adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult
theater, adult escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  Human genitals in a state of arousal.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT.  Of a sexually oriented business, means the
increase in floor area occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor
area exists on the effective date of this chapter.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.  Of a sexually oriented business, means
and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.02  CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she operates a sexually oriented
business without a license, issued by the city for the particular type of
business.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
Chief of Police.  The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram
showing the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor
space occupied by the business.  The sketch or diagram need not be
professionally prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with
marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or
minus six inches.  Applicants who must comply with §
114.17 shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of §
114.17.
   (C)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter, and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law by the Health Department, Fire Department, and Building Official.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he or she must sign the application for a license as applicant.  If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant.  Each applicant must be
qualified under §
114.04 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted.
   (E)   The fact that a person possesses a valid theater license, dance hall
license, or public house of amusement license does not exempt him or her from
the requirement of obtaining a sexually oriented business license.  A person
who operates a sexually oriented business and possesses a theater license,
public house of amusement license or dance hall license shall comply with the
requirements and provisions of this chapter as well as any other prevailing
code, laws and/or ordinances pertaining to those other such licenses.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall approve the issuance of a license by the
City Secretary to an applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application
unless he or she finds one or more of the following to be true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue in his or her
payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him or
her or imposed upon him or her in relation to a sexually oriented business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted of a
violation of a provision of this chapter, other than the offense of operating a
sexually oriented business without a license, within two years immediately
preceding the application. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall
have no effect;
      (5)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
license by the city to operate a sexually oriented business within the
preceding 12 months, or is residing with a person whose license to operate a
sexually oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (6)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
      (7)   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with §§
114.10,
114.11,
114.13,
114.14,
114.15,
114.16,
114.17, or
114.18; or
      (8)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted of a
crime:
         (a)   Involving:
            1.   Any of the following offenses as described in Tex. Penal Code,
Chapter 43:
               a.   Prostitution;
               b.   Promotion of prostitution;
               c.   Aggravated promotion of prostitution;
               d.   Compelling prostitution;
               e.   Obscenity;
               f.   Sale, distribution, or display of harmful material to
minor;
               g.   Sexual performance by a child; or
               h.   Possession of child pornography.
            2.   Any of the following offenses as described in Tex. Penal Code,
Chapter 21:
               a.   Public lewdness;
               b.   Indecent exposure; or
               c.   Indecency with a child.
            3.   Sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault as described in
Tex. Penal Code, Chapter 22;
            4.   Prohibited sexual conduct, enticing a child, or harboring a
runaway child as described in Tex. Penal Code, Chapter 25; or
            5.   Criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any of
the following offenses.
         (b)   For which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
   (B)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant or the applicant’s spouse.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of the applicant, to the extent possible, to
secure and provide to the Chief of Police the evidence required to determine
present fitness as may be requested by the Chief of Police or licensing
authorities.
   (D)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business.  The license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so
that it may be easily read at any time.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.05  FEES.
   (A)   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business license is as provided
on a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council
from time to time.
   (B)   If an applicant is required by this code also to obtain a dance hall
license or public house of amusement license for the business at a single
location, payment of the fee for the sexually oriented business license exempts
the applicant from payment of the fees for the dance hall or public house of
amusement license.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.06  EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as required in §
114.03.  Application should be made at least 30 days before the expiration
date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the
expiration of the license shall not be affected.
   (B)   When the Chief of Police denies renewal of a license, the applicant
shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.  If,
subsequent to denial, the Chief of Police finds that the basis for denial of
the renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted
a license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.07  SUSPENSION.
   The Chief of Police shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30
days if he or she determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with §§
114.10,
114.11,
114.13,
114.14,
114.15,
114.16,
114.17, or
114.18;
   (B)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the sexually
oriented business premises;
   (C)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
   (D)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises; or
   (E)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.08  REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in
§
114.07 occurs and the license has been suspended within the 12 preceding
months.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall revoke a license if he or she determines
that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the Chief of Police during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or employee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
114.04(A)(8)(a), for which the time period required in §
114.05(A)(8)(b) has not lapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed in §
114.04(A)(8)(a), for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
persons were employees of the sexually oriented business at the time the
offenses were committed;
      (7)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or sexual contact to occur
in or on the licensed premises. The term SEXUAL CONTACT shall have the same
meaning as it is defined in Tex. Penal Code, § 21.01; or
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for hotel occupancy
taxes, ad valorem taxes, or sales taxes related to the sexually oriented
business.
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
revocation of the license.
   (D)   Division (B)(7) above does not apply to adult motels as ground for
revoking the license.
   (E)   When the Chief of Police revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
business license for one year from the date revocation became effective.  If,
subsequent to revocation, the Chief of Police finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective.  If the license was revoked under §
114.08(B)(5), an applicant may not be granted another license until the
appropriate number of years under §
114.04(A)(8)(b) have elapsed since the termination of any sentence, parole, or
probation.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.09  APPEAL.
   If the Chief of Police denies the issuance of a license, or suspends or
revokes a license, he or she shall send to the applicant or licensee, by
certified mail, return receipt requested, written notice of his or her action
and the right to an appeal.  The aggrieved party may appeal the decision of the
Chief of Police to a permit and license appeal board consisting of the City
Council.  The filing of an appeal stays the action of the Chief of Police in
suspending or revoking a license until the permit and license appeal board
makes a final decision.  If within a ten-day period the Chief of Police
suspends, revokes, or denies issuance of a dance hall license or public house
of amusement license for the same location involved in the Chief’s actions on
the sexually oriented business, the Chief may consolidate, the requests for
appeals of those actions into one appeal.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.10  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.11  LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of:
      (1)   A church;
      (2)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
      (3)   The property line of a lot devoted to residential use; or
      (4)   A public park adjacent to a residential district.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of another sexually
oriented business.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or the increase
of floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure, or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A) above, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church or public or private elementary or secondary
school, or to the nearest boundary of an affected public park, residential
district, or residential lot.
   (E)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the distance between any
two sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall of
the structure in which each business is located.
   (F)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the effective
date of this chapter, that is in violation of divisions (A), (B), or (C) of
this section, shall be deemed a nonconforming use. The nonconforming use will
be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed three years, unless sooner
terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days
or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or
altered except that the use may be changed to conforming use.  If two or more
sexually oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet of one another and otherwise
in a permissible location, the sexually oriented business which was first
established and continually operating at a particular location is the
conforming use and the later-established business(es) is nonconforming.
   (G)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a church, public or
private elementary or secondary school, public park, residential lot, or
residential district within 1,000 feet of the sexually oriented business.  This
provision applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply
when an application for a license is submitted after a license has expired or
has been revoked.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.12  EXEMPTION FROM LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   If the Chief of Police denies the issuance of a license to an
applicant because the location of the sexually oriented business establishment
is in violation of §
114.11, then the applicant may, not later than ten calendar days after
receiving notice of the denial, file with the City Secretary a written request
for an exemption from the locational restrictions of §
114.11.
   (B)   If the written request is filed with the City Secretary within the
ten-day limit, a Permit and License Appeal Board, consisting of the City
Council, shall consider the request.  The City Secretary shall set a date for
the hearing within 60 days from the date the written request is received.
   (C)   A hearing by the Board may proceed if at least three of the Board
members are present.  The Board shall hear and consider evidence offered by any
interested person.  The formal rules of evidence do not apply.
   (D)   The Permit and License Appeal Board may, in its discretion, grant an
exemption from the locational restrictions of §
114.11 if it makes the following findings:
      (1)   That the location of the proposed sexually oriented business will
not have a detrimental effect on nearby properties or be contrary to the public
safety or welfare;
      (2)   That the granting of the exemption will not violate the spirit and
intent of this chapter of the city code;
      (3)   That the location of the proposed sexually oriented business will
not downgrade the property values or quality of life in the adjacent areas or
encourage the development of urban blight;
      (4)   That the location of an additional sexually oriented business in
the area will not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation nor
will it interfere with any efforts or urban renewal or restoration; and
      (5)   That all other applicable provisions of this chapter will be
observed.
   (E)   The Board shall grant or deny the exemption by a majority vote. 
Failure to reach a majority vote shall result in denial of the exemption. 
Disputes of fact shall be decided on the basis of a preponderance of the
evidence.  The decision of the Permit and License Appeal Board is final.
   (F)   If the Board grants the exemption, the exemption is valid for one year
from the date of the Board’s action.  Upon the expiration of an exemption, the
sexually oriented business is in violation of the locational restrictions of §
114.11 until the applicant applies for and receives another exemption.
   (G)   If the Board denies the exemption, the applicant may not reapply for
an exemption until at least 12 months have elapsed since the date of the
Board’s action.
   (H)   The grant of an exemption does not exempt the applicant from any other
provisions of this chapter other than the locational restrictions of §
114.11.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.13  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.14  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio may not employ anyone under the age of 18 years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if he or she
appears in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model studio.  It
is a defense to prosecution under this division if the person under 18 years
was in a restroom not open to public view or persons of the opposite sex.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if he or she appears in a state of nudity
or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress in
any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room
open to the public.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.15  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT THEATERS AND ADULT MOTION PICTURE
THEATERS.
   (A)   The requirements and provisions of other applicable ordinances of the
prevailing city code remain applicable to adult theaters and adult motion
picture theaters.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she knowingly allows a person
under the age of 18 years to appear in a state of nudity in or on the premises
of an adult theater or adult motion picture theater.
   (C)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if he or she
knowingly appears in a state of nudity in or on the premises of an adult
theater or adult motion picture theater.
   (D)   It is a defense to prosecution under divisions (B) and (C) of this
section if the person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view
or persons of the opposite sex.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.16  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a motel, hotel, or similar commercial
establishment is frequently rented and vacated more than two times in a period
of time that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or a similar commercial establishment that does not
have a sexually oriented business license, he or she rents or subrents a
sleeping room to a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is
rented, he or she rents or subrents the room again two or more times.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the terms RENT or
SUBRENT mean the act of permitting the room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.17  REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space a film, video
cassette, or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted.  A manager’s station shall not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted.  A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches.  The Chief of Police may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal
applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted
and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since
it was prepared;
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant;
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the Chief of Police or his or
her designee;
      (4)   It is the duty of the owner and operators of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises;
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms.  Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment.  If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations.  The view required in
this division must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station;
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the view area specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials at all times that
any patron is present in the premises and to ensure that no patron is permitted
access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in
which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to
division (A)(1) of this section;
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than 1.0 footcandle as measured at the
floor level; and
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (8) above
commits an offense if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.18  DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL TO MINORS.
   (A)   In enacting this section, the City Council declares its purposes and
intent to be as follows:  There exists an urgent need to prevent commercial
exposure of minors to sexually provocative written, photographic, printed,
sound, or published materials as these are hereafter defined and which are
hereby declared to be harmful to minors.
   (B)   It is in the best interest of the health, welfare, and safety of the
citizens of this city and state, and especially of minors within the city and
state, that commercial dissemination of such sexually provocative written,
photographic, printed, sound, or published materials deemed harmful to minors
be restricted to persons over the age of 17 years; or if available to minors
under the age of 18 years, that the availability of such materials be
restricted to sources within established and recognized schools, religious
institutions, museums, medical clinics and physicians, hospitals, public
libraries, the minor’s home, or government sponsored organizations.
   (C)   As used in this section, the terms defined in this division (C) have
the meanings given them:
      (1)   HARMFUL TO MINORS.  That quality of any description or
representation, in whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, or sexual
excitement, when it:
         (a)   Predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful, or morbid
interest of minors in sex;
         (b)   Is patently offensive to contemporary standards in the adult
community as a whole with respect to what is suitable sexual material for
minors; and
         (c)   Taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
      (2)   KNOWINGLY.  Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a
belief or ground for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry or
both:
         (a)   The character and content of any material which is reasonably
susceptible of examination by the defendant; and
         (b)   The age of the minor; provided, however, that an honest mistake
shall constitute an excuse from liability hereunder if the defendant made a
reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain the true age of the minor.
      (3)   MINOR.  Any person under the age of 18 years.
      (4)   NUDITY.  The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic
area or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the
female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the areolae (nipple), or the depiction of covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
      (5)   SEXUAL CONDUCT.  Includes any of the following depicted sexual
conduct:
         (a)   Any act of sexual intercourse, actual or simulated, including
genital-genital, genital-anal, or oral-genital intercourse, whether between
human beings or between a human being and an animal.
         (b)   Sadomasochistic abuse, meaning flagellation or torture by or
upon a person who is nude or clad in under-garments or in a revealing costume
or the condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restricted
on the part of one so clothed.
         (c)   Masturbation or lewd exhibitions of the genitals including any
explicit, close-up representation of a human genital organ.
         (d)   Physical contact or simulated physical contact with the clothed
or unclothed pubic areas or buttocks of a human male or female, or the breasts
of the female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite sex or
between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or
gratification.
         (e)   An act of sexual assault where physical violence or drugs are
employed to overcome the will of or achieve the consent of a person to an act
of sexual conduct and the effects or results of the violence or drugs are
shown.
      (6)   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT.  The condition of human male or female genitals
when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to sell or loan for monetary
consideration to a minor:
      (1)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film,
video tape, or similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of
the human body which depicts nudity, sexual conduct, or sexual excitement and
which is harmful to minors.
      (2)   Any book, pamphlet, magazine, printed matter however reproduced, or
sound recording which contains any matter enumerated in division (D)(1) above,
or which contains explicit and detailed verbal descriptions or narrative
accounts of nudity or sexual conduct and which, taken as a whole, is harmful to
minors.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit for a monetary
consideration to a minor or knowingly to sell to a minor an admission ticket or
pass or knowingly to admit a minor for monetary consideration to premises
whereon there is exhibited a motion picture show or other presentation which,
in whole or in part, depicts nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, and
which is harmful to minors.
   (F)   It is unlawful for any person commercially and knowingly to exhibit,
display, sell, give away, circulate, distribute, or attempt to distribute any
material which is harmful to minors in its content in any place where minors
are or may be present or allowed to be present, and where minors are able to
view the material, unless each item of that material is at all times kept in a
sealed wrapper.
      (1)   It is also unlawful for any person commercially and knowingly to
exhibit, display, sell, offer to sell, give away, circulate, distribute, or
attempt to distribute any material whose cover, covers, or packaging, standing
alone, is harmful to minors, in any place where minors are or may be present or
allowed to be present and where minors are able to view such material, unless
each item of that material is blocked from view by an opaque cover.  The
requirement of an opaque cover shall be satisfied concerning such material if
those portions of the cover, covers, or packaging containing such material
harmful to minors are blocked from view by an opaque cover.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (F) shall not apply to distribution
or attempt to distribute, the exhibition, display, sale, offer of sale,
circulation, giving away of material harmful to minors where such material is
sold, exhibited, displayed, offered for sale, given away, circulated,
distributed, or attempted to be distributed under circumstances where minors
are not present, not allowed to be present, or are not able to view such
material or the cover, covers, or packaging of the material.  Any business may
comply with the requirements of this clause by physically segregating such
material in a manner so as to physically prohibit the access to and view of the
material by minors, by prominently posting at the entrance(s) to the restricted
area, “Adults Only–You Must Be 18 To Enter,” and by enforcing the restrictions.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.19  ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the City Council to interpret the intent of this
chapter where uncertainty exists and to provide guidelines for effective
enforcement.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.20  INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid license or in violation of the conditions of this chapter is
subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal
violations.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21  AMENDMENT OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Sections
114.11 and
114.12 may be amended only after compliance with the procedure required to
amend a zoning ordinance.  Other sections of this chapter may be amended by
vote of the City Council.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Except as provided by division (C), any person violating §
114.11, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $200.
   (C)   If the sexually oriented business involved is a nude model studio or
sexual encounter center, the violation of §
114.03(A) or §
114.11 is punishable as a Class C misdemeanor.
   (D)   Except as provided by division (C), any person violating a provision
of this chapter other than §
114.11, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $200.
   (E)   It is a defense to prosecution under § 144.03(A), §
114.11, or §
114.14(D) that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling
class operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school licensed by the State of Texas; or a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferrable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no advertising that indicates that a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   When, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any
time.
   (F)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
114.03(A) or §
114.11 that each item of descriptive, printed, film, or video material offered
for sale or rental, taken as a whole, contains serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
(Ord. 6-89, passed 5-8-1989)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Public transit offenses, adopted
   
130.02   Drug prohibition
Sex Offender Residency
   
130.15   Definitions
   
130.16   Offenses
   
130.17   Evidentiary matters; measurements
   
130.18   Culpable mental state not required
   
130.19   Affirmative defenses
   
130.20   Limitations of liability
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks and explosives, see
Chapter 111 of this code of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01  PUBLIC TRANSIT OFFENSES, ADOPTED.
    The Public Transit Offenses Ordinance is created and shall read as
presented in Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 5-01 and made a part hereof as if
set out in full herein.  Copies are available through city offices.
(Ord. 5-01, passed 4-10-2001)
§ 130.02  DRUG PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Prohibition of the use, possession and/or transfer of prohibited
substances in the City of Wake Village, Texas, as follows.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning ascribed to that term by §
481.002 of the Texas Health and Safety Code, as amended.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOGUE.  Has the same meaning ascribed to that
term by § 481.002 of the Texas Health and Safety Code, as amended.  This phrase
shall also include substances with a chemical structure substantially similar
to that of a controlled substance contained in the Texas Controlled Substances
Schedule or Penalty Groups 1, 1A, 2, 3 & 4 and/or specifically represented,
intended or designed to produce or produces an effect substantially similar to
or greater than the effect of a controlled substance contained in the Texas
Controlled Substances Schedule or Penalty Groups 1, 1A, 2, 3 & 4 and the
product has no apparent legitimate use for a consumer.  The effects referred to
include but are not limited to, intoxication, stupefaction, giddiness,
paralysis, irrational behavior or in any manner, changes, distorts or disturbs
the auditory, visual or mental process or otherwise impairs the physical or
mental functions of the user.
      DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as that ascribed to that term by §
483.001 of the Texas Health and Safety Code, as amended.
      PROHIBITED SUBSTANCE. A controlled substance, controlled substance
analogue, dangerous drug, volatile chemical or any combination of those
substances.
      PERSON. An individual, group of individuals, any type of entity,
including but not limited to sole proprietorships, partnerships, corporations
or other types of entities.
      INGESTION DEVICE. Any equipment, product or material that is used or
intended to be used in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing an illegal
substance into the human body.
   (C)   Prohibited activities:
      (1)   A person commits an offense if he/she actually or attempts to
possess, possess, use, transfer, solicits, displays or offers for sale or
donation or receives a prohibited substance or anything represented as a
prohibited substance as defined herein.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if, with intent to acquire a prohibited
substance, he/she requests, commands or attempts to induce another to sell,
donate, or otherwise transfer or deliver a prohibited substance to the person.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, possess, purchase,
sell, publicly display for sale or attempt to sell, give, or barter any one or
more of the following prohibited substances within the city limits of the City
of Wake Village, Texas:
         (a)   Salvia divinorum or Salvinorum A; all parts of the plant
presently classified botanically as Salvia divinorum, whether growing or not,
the seeds thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
         (b)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-
yl)-6a, 7, 10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol commonly known as HU-210;
         (c)   1 -Pentyl-3-(1 -naphthoyl)indole commonly known as JWH-018 or
Spice;
         (d)   1-Butyl-3-(1naphthoyl)indole commonly known as JWH-073;
         (e)   N-benzylpiperazine commonly known as BZP;
         (f)   1-(3-[trifluoromethylphenyl]) piperazine commonly known as
TFMPP;
         (g)   Any other synthetic cannabinoid;
         (h)   JWH-018, JWH-073, JWH-019, JWH-122, AM2201 or a mixture of
different cannabinoids;
         (i)   JWH-200, AM2233, RCS-4 or a mixture of different cannabinoids;
         (j)   AM-694;
         (k)   CP;
         (l)   -47,497;
         (m)   CP-55,940;
         (n)   JWH-081;
         (o)   URB-597;
         (p)   JWH-250; or
         (q)   Any similar substance which when inhaled or otherwise ingested
produces intoxication, stupefaction, giddiness, paralysis, irrational behavior,
or in any manner, changes, distorts, or disturbs the auditory, visual, or
mental process and the product or substance has no other apparent legitimate
purpose for consumers.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person, knowingly, to breathe, inhale,
drink, or otherwise ingest any compound, liquid or chemical listed within this
section, or a similar substance for the purpose of inducing a condition of
intoxication, stupefaction, giddiness, paralysis, irrational behavior, or in
any manner, changing, distorting or disturbing the auditory, visual, or mental
process.
      (5)   It is an offense for any person to use, possess, purchase, solicit,
display or offer for sale an ingestion device as is defined herein.
      (6)   It is no defense to prosecution under this section that:
         (a)   No monetary or other consideration was tendered or transferred
in connection with the transaction;
         (b)   The person solicited by the intended transferee was unable to
deliver the solicited product; or
         (c)   The substance was not a prohibited substance as defined herein
but was represented to be a prohibited substance.
      (7)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution under this section
that the solicitation was made:
         (a)   In furtherance of a transaction that would not constitute a
violation of any applicable law; or
         (b)   By a peace officer, federal law enforcement officer, or other
law enforcement agent acting in the lawful discharge of an official duty.
      (8)   Rebuttable presumption. For the purpose of this section a
rebuttable presumption that a substance is, in fact, a prohibited substance is
created if the substance causes a reagent designed to detect the presence of
one or more prohibited substances to react in such a way as to indicate the
presence of a prohibited substance. Reagent must be manufactured or supplied by
a company that is recognized and accredited as being a manufacturer or supplier
of the reagent used.
(Ord. 2-14, passed 4-14-2014)
SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCY
§ 130.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE.  A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides for
14 or more consecutive days.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE.  A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides for
a period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and which
is not the person’s permanent address, or a place where a person routinely
abides, resides, or lodges for a period of four or more consecutive or
nonconsecutive days in any month and which is not the person’s permanent
residence.
(Ord. 1-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 130.16  OFFENSES.
   For each person required to register on the Texas Department of Public
Safety’s Sex Offender Database (the Database) because of a violation involving
a victim who was less than 17 years of age, it is unlawful for that person to
establish a permanent residence or temporary residence within 1,500 feet of any
defined premises where children commonly gather, including a playground,
school, day care facility, public or private youth center, or public swimming
pool, as those terms are defined in Tex. Health and Safety Code, Art. 481.134.
(Ord. 1-07, passed 1-8-2007)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17  EVIDENTIARY MATTERS; MEASUREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be prima facie evidence that this subchapter applies to such
a person if that person’s record appeals on the Database and the Database
indicates that the victim was less than 17 years of age.
   (B)   For the purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the permanent or temporary residence to the nearest property
line of the premises where children commonly gather, as described herein above,
or, in the case of multiple residences on one property, measuring from the
nearest wall of the building or structure occupied of the parking lot or
driveway, whichever is closer to the nearest property line of the premises
where children commonly gather, as described herein.
   (C)   In case of a dispute over measured distances, it shall be incumbent
upon the person(s) challenging the measurement to prove otherwise.
(Ord. 1-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 130.18  CULPABLE MENTAL STATE NOT REQUIRED.
   Neither allegation nor evidence of a culpable mental state is required for
the proof of an offense defined by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 130.19  AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution that any of the following
conditions apply:
   (A)   The person required to register on the Database established the
permanent or temporary residence and has complied with all of the sex offender
registration laws of the State of Texas, prior to the date of the adoption of
this subchapter.
   (B)   The person required to register on the Database was a minor when he or
she committed the offense requiring the registration and was not convicted as
an adult.
   (C)   The person required to register on the Database is a minor.
   (D)   The premises where children commonly gather, as specified herein,
within 1,500 feet of the permanent or temporary residence of the person
required to register on the Database was opened after the person established
the permanent or temporary residence and complied with all sex offender
registration laws of the State of Texas.
   (E)   The information on the Database is incorrect, and, if corrected, this
section would not apply to the person who was erroneously listed on the
Database.
(Ord. 1-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 130.20  LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY.
   All of the regulations provided in this subchapter are hereby declared to be
governmental and for the health, safety, and welfare of the general public. 
Any member of the City Council or any city official or employee charged with
the enforcement of this subchapter, acting for the City of Wake Village in the
discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself
personally liable; and he or she is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage that might accrue to persons or property as a result of any act
required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties.
(Ord. 1-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, agent or employee thereof who
violates any of the provisions of §§
130.15 through
130.20 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined an amount not to exceed $500 for each offense.  Each day that a violation
is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any violation of §§
130.15 through
130.20 can be enjoined by a suit filed in the name of the City of Wake Village
in a court of competent jurisdiction, and this remedy shall be in addition to
any penal provision in this subchapter or in the code of the City of Wake
Village.
   (C)   Any person who violates any part of §
130.02, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than
$250 and not more than $2,000. Each occurrence of a violation of §
130.02, shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty for any person
convicted of a second or subsequent offense shall be not less than $1,000 and
not more than $2,000.
(Ord. 1-07, passed 1-8-2007; Ord. 2-14, passed 4-14-2014)
CHAPTER 131:  CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Findings
   
131.03   Definitions
   
131.04   Exceptions and defenses
   
131.05   Supplemental effect
   
131.06   Enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect minors from criminal activity that occurs after the curfew
hour; and
   (B)   Protect minors from improper influences that prevail after the curfew
hour; and
   (C)   Protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed after the
curfew hour; and
   (D)   Help parents, guardians, custodians, or other responsible persons, in
carrying out their responsibility to exercise reasonable supervision of the
children entrusted to their care.
(Ord. 7-07, passed 4-9-2007; Am. Ord. 7-10, passed 5-10-2010; Am. Ord. 4-14,
passed 12-8-2014; Am. Ord. 8-17, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 131.02  FINDINGS.
   Based on statistical information, the number of juveniles involved in crime
and juveniles who are victims of crime represent a substantial threat to the
health, safety and peace of the community, which constitutes a compelling
governmental interest for continuing this chapter.
(Ord. 7-07, passed 4-9-2007; Am. Ord. 7-10, passed 5-10-2010; Am. Ord. 4-14,
passed 12-8-2014; Am. Ord. 8-17, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 131.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.
   CURFEW HOURS.
      (1)   10:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday, or Saturday until 6:00 a.m; and
      (2)   9:00 a.m. until 2:30 p.m. on any Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, or Friday.
   EMERGENCY.  An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action, to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   MINOR.  Any person under 17 years of age.
   OPERATOR.  Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment, including the members of
partners of an association or partnership, and the officers of a corporation.
   PARENT.  A person who is the natural parent, adoptive parent, or the step-
parent or a person. As used herein, PARENT shall also include a court-appointed
guardian, or other person 21 years of age or older, and authorized by the
parent, by a court order, or by the court-appointed guardian to have the care
and custody of a person.
   PREMISES.  The structure within which the establishment is housed.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
(Ord. 7-07, passed 4-9-2007; Am. Ord. 7-10, passed 5-10-2010; Am. Ord. 4-14,
passed 12-8-2014; Am. Ord. 8-17, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 131.04  EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
131.03 that, at the time of the act that otherwise would constitute an offense:
      (1)   The minor was accompanied by his or her parent;
      (2)   The minor was accompanied by an adult 21 years of age or older
designated by his or her parent;
      (3)   The minor was on an errand made necessary by an emergency;
      (4)   The minor was attending a school, religious activity, or
government-sponsored activity, or going to or coming from a school, religious,
or government-sponsored activity;
      (5)   The minor was engaged in a lawful employment activity or volunteer
work at a recognized charity institution, or going to or coming from such
activity, without detour or stop;
      (6)   The minor was attending an official school, religious, or other
recreation activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor;
      (7)   The minor was, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle engaging
in interstate travel, beginning, ending or passing through the city;
      (8)   The minor was on an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent,
without any detour or stop;
      (9)   The minor was on the property of the sidewalk directly adjacent to
the place where such minor resides, or the place immediately adjacent thereto,
if the owner or occupant of the adjacent building does not communicate an
objection to the minor and the Police Department;
      (10)   The minor was attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First and Fourteenth amendment rights,
protected by the United States Constitution, including, but not limited to, the
free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the right of assembly;
      (11)   The minor was married or had been married or had disabilities of
minority removed in accordance with Chapter 31 of the Texas Family Code;
      (12)   The minor was following the direction of a peace officer;
      (13)   With respect to the hours between 9:00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. only,
that the offense occurred during the school summer vacation break period of the
school in which the minor is enrolled, or on a holiday observed by the closure
of classes in the school in which the minor is enrolled, or that the minor has
graduated from high school or received a high school equivalency certificate;
or
      (14)   In a prosecution under §
131.03, the owner, operator or employee of the place of business promptly
notified the Police Department that a minor was present on the premises of the
business during the curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (B)   Each of the forgoing exceptions, and their several limitations, are
severable, as hereinafter provided but re-emphasized here.
(Ord. 7-07, passed 4-9-2007; Am. Ord. 7-10, passed 5-10-2010; Am. Ord 4-14,
passed 12-8-2014; Am. Ord. 8-17, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 131.05  SUPPLEMENTAL EFFECT.
   The provisions of this chapter are supplemental and shall be cumulative with
all other laws and ordinances applicable in any manner to juveniles.
(Ord. 7-07, passed 4-9-2007; Am. Ord. 7-10, passed 5-10-2010; Am. Ord. 4-14,
passed 12-8-2014; Am. Ord. 8-17, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 131.06  ENFORCEMENT.
   Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police officer
shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the public place.
The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this chapter
unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that,
based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in §
131.04 is present.
(Ord. 7-07, passed 4-9-2007; Am. Ord. 7-10, passed 5-10-2010; Am. Ord. 4-14,
passed 12-8-2014; Am. Ord. 8-17, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A minor who violates the curfew hours set forth in §
131.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500, and may be subject to appropriate
action by a juvenile court in accordance with Tex. Family Code, §§ 51.03 and
51.08, and Tex. Penal Code, § 8.07.
   (B)   A parent of a minor who violates the curfew hours set forth in §
131.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (C)   A person who violates a provision of the chapter is guilty of separate
offenses for each day or part of a day during which the violation is committed,
continued or permitted.
   (D)   In assessing punishment for either a parent or a minor, the Municipal
Court Judge may consider a community service or Teen Court program.
(Ord. 7-07, passed 4-9-2007; Am. Ord. 7-10, passed 5-10-2010; Am. Ord. 4-14,
passed 12-8-2014; Am. Ord. 8-17, passed 11-13-2017)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
151.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
      
152.   TRAILER, MOBILE HOME, AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
155.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
Adoption of Codes and Plans
   
150.01   Codes adopted
   
150.02   Texarkana Urban Transportation Study adopted
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
150.15   Carports authorized
   
150.16   Single-family and duplex industrialized housing
   
150.17   Municipal service plan for annexations
   
150.18   Community development block grant housing rehabilitation program
Fees and Charges
   
150.30   Annexation fees
   
150.31   Building permit fees
Construction in the City
   
150.45   No rebates on future developments
   
150.46   Compliance
   
150.47   Definitions
   
150.48   Plat submission required
   
150.49   Approval of City Engineer required
   
150.50   Council approval
   
150.51   Maintenance of completed construction for one year
   
150.52   Future payments of rebates under existing contracts
   
150.53   Notice to perform repairs; liability to city for costs
   
150.54   Exemption from liability
   
150.55   Failure to perform repairs; liability to city for costs
   
150.56   Interest for city-paid repairs
 
   
150.99   Penalty
ADOPTION OF CODES AND PLANS
§ 150.01  CODES ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by the City Council for the construction,
alteration, repair, removal, demolition, equipment, use and occupancy of
buildings and structures, including permits and penalties, that certain
building and construction codes known as the International Building Code 2012,
International Fire Code 2012, International Residential Code 2012,
International Existing Building Code 2012, International Plumbing Code 2012,
International Mechanical Code 2012, International Fuel Code 2012, and
International Property Maintenance Code 2012 with appendixes and amendments
thereto, save and except such portions as are hereinafter amended or deleted,
of which one copy with all amendments notes therein shall be on file in the
office of the City Secretary, available to all persons for inspection, and the
same are hereby adopted as the building code(s) of the city as fully as if set
out at length herein and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 5-12, passed 5-14-2012; Ord. 10-15, passed 12-14-2015)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  TEXARKANA URBAN TRANSPORTATION STUDY ADOPTED.
    The city does respectfully commend and endorse the comprehensive
transportation planning program, and hereby adopts Volumes 1 and 2 of the
Texarkana Urban Transportation Study as a Master Plan for development of
transportation facilities.
(Res. 2-67, passed 12-6-1967)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 150.15  CARPORTS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any owner of a house and lot in the Wake Village Addition of the city
may construct a carport on his or her lot, notwithstanding the provisions of
any other ordinances of the city, according to the following terms and
conditions:
      (1)   The carport shall be of the open type, not in excess of 20 feet
from front to back and 20 feet from side to side.
      (2)   No carport shall contain closed storage areas or storage buildings
or have constructed sides, and shall be open on all sides.
      (3)   Carports shall be built no closer than 12 feet from curb line and
five feet to the side setback line.
      (4)   Plans for all carports shall be submitted to the Building Inspector
for approval.  All carports shall be inspected by the Building Inspector during
construction and after completion.
      (5)   No carport shall be constructed that is structurally unsound,
dangerous, from used materials, unsightly, or in such a manner as to block
visibility from intersections, streets, sidewalks, or driveways so as to create
a dangerous condition.
      (6)   Permits for carports shall bear a permit fee in an amount set by
Council from time to time, which shall be paid at the time of issuing the
permit.
      (7)   No other permit, petition for variance, fees, or other action shall
be necessary on the part of the owner, notwithstanding any other ordinance, who
builds a carport under the terms and conditions of this section.
      (8)   This section in no way affects any restrictive covenants approved
by the owners or developers on the addition.
   (B)   Any other construction of carports, buildings, garages, storage
buildings, or other construction not in accordance with this section shall
comply with the existing ordinances of the City of Wake Village.
(Ord. 2-76, passed 1-12-1976)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16  SINGLE-FAMILY AND DUPLEX INDUSTRIALIZED HOUSING.
   (A)   Regulation of single-family and duplex industrialized housing shall
read as follows: 
      (1)   Single-family or duplex industrialized housing must have all local
permits and licenses that are applicable to other single-family or duplex
dwellings.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, single-family or duplex
industrialized housing is real property.
      (3)   Any industrialized housing shall:
         (a)   Have a value equal to or greater than the median taxable value
for each single-family dwelling located within 500 feet of the lot on which the
industrialized housing is proposed to be located, as determined by the most
recent certified tax appraisal roll for the county;
         (b)   Have exterior siding, roofing, roof pitch, foundation fascia,
and fenestration compatible with the single-family dwellings located within 500
feet of the lot on which the industrialized housing is proposed to be located;
         (c)   Comply with city aesthetic standards, building setbacks, side
and rear yard offsets, subdivision control, architectural landscaping, square
footage, and other site requirements applicable to single-family dwellings; and
         (d)   Be securely fixed to a permanent foundation.
      (4)   For purposes of subsection (A)(3), VALUE means the taxable value of
the industrialized housing and lot after installation of the housing.
      (5)   Any owner or authorized agent who intends to construct, erect,
install, or move any industrialized housing into the city shall first make
application to the Building Official and obtain the required permits.  In
addition to any other information otherwise required for the permits, the
application shall:
         (a)   Identify each single-family dwelling located within 500 feet of
the lot on which the industrialized housing is to be located, and show the
taxable value for each such dwelling as determined by the most recent certified
tax appraisal roll for the county;
         (b)   Describe the exterior siding, roofing, roof pitch, foundation
fascia, and fenestration for each single-family dwelling located with 500 feet
of the lot on which the industrialized housing is to be located;
         (c)   Describe the permanent foundation and method of attachment
proposed for the industrialized housing;
         (d)   State the taxable value of the industrialized housing and the
lot after installation of the industrialized housing; and
         (5)   Indicate the deed restrictions otherwise applicable to the real
property on which the industrialized housing is to be located.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person:
      (1)   Fails to make an application for permit as required by this
section; or
      (2)   Constructs, erects, installs or moves any industrialized housing
into the city which does not comply with this section.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 7-17-2006)  Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Occupation Code Chapter 1202, especially §
1202.253
§ 150.17  MUNICIPAL SERVICE PLAN FOR ANNEXATIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code § 43.053, the city will provide
municipal services to the annexed areas under a Municipal Service Plan, in
accordance with the cited statute.
   (B)   The Municipal Service Plan shall include:
      (1)   A program under which the city will provide police and fire
protection, solid waste collection, maintenance of water and wastewater
facilities, maintenance of roads and streets to include lighting, maintenance
of parks and playgrounds and the maintenance of any other publicly owned
facility, building or service within the annexed area; and
      (2)   A program under which the city will initiate the acquisition and
construction of any capital improvements necessary for providing the municipal
services within the annexed area.
(Res. R17-81, passed 12-14-1981)
§ 150.18  COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT HOUSING REHABILITATION PROGRAM.
   The City of Wake Village Community Development Block Grant Housing
Rehabilitation Program Design, attached to Resolution R3-82, is hereby adopted
by reference as if set out in full herein.  Copies are available through city
offices.
(R3-82, passed 3-8-1982)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 150.30  ANNEXATION FEES.
   (A)   All petitions for the annexation of land to the city shall be
accompanied by the payment of fee deposits as hereinafter set out.
   (B)   The minimum fee for annexation petitions shall be as provided by a fee
schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from
time to time.
   (C)   The City Secretary shall estimate, according to current costs
regularly incurred, the recording fees, costs of publication, and other
expected expenses of each petition for annexation.
   (D)   There shall be added to the City Secretary’s estimate of expenses the
sum as provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by
the City Council from time to time, which together shall comprise the filing
fee.
   (E)   If the estimate of expenses plus an amount as provided by a fee
schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from
time to time, the deposit shall be as provided by a fee schedule maintained by
the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time.
   (F)   If the estimate of expenses plus an amount as provided by a fee
schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from
time to time, then the deposit shall be an amount equal to the sum as provided
by a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council
from time to time, plus the City Secretary’s estimate.
   (G)   If the petitioner refuses or fails to pay a filing fee deposit as
determined by the City Secretary, the City Council shall not docket the
annexation petition for hearing.
   (H)   After the conclusion of the annexation or refusal by the City Council
to annex the land, then the City Secretary shall determine the actual expenses
incurred for notices, publication and recording fees, and any other expenses
incurred by the city in processing the petition for annexation, plus the sum as
provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the
City Council from time to time. 
      (1)   If this amount exceeds the deposit, the petitioner shall be
required to pay any excess.
      (2)   If the deposit exceeds this amount, the excess shall be refunded to
the petitioner.
   (I)   Should the petitioner fail or refuse to pay any excess amount due, the
annexation process shall cease, and no further action by the city as to
streets, zoning, building permits, or other activities requested by the
petitioner or property owners shall take place.
(Ord. 22-77, passed 10-25-1977)
§ 150.31  BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   The permit fees charged by the city for building permits in the city shall
computed and charged as follows:
   (A)   Minimum valuations.  The following minimum valuation shall be used to
set fees:
 
WITHOUT
Central      As provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary,  adopted by
Heating and  the City Council from time to time (Residential) and (Commercial)
Air
Conditioning
WITH Central
Heating and  As provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City Secretary,  adopted by
Air          the City Council from time to time (Residential) and (Commercial)
Conditioning
 
   (B)   Permit fees.
TOTAL VALUATION FEE
TOTAL VALUATION    FEE
                   No fee, unless inspection required. If inspection required -
$100 and less      as provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City
                   Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time.
$101 - 2,000       As provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City
                   Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time
$2,001 - 15,000    As provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City
                   Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time
$15,001 - 50,000   As provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City
                   Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time
$50,001 - 100,000  As provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City
                   Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time
$100,000 - 500,000 As provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City
                   Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time
$500,000 and up    As provided by a fee schedule maintained by the City
                   Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time
 
   (C)   A schedule of interpolated fees as provided by a fee schedule
maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to
time, is attached to Ordinance 18-82 as Schedule A and made a part hereof.
      (1)   Demolition of buildings or structures.  To include removal of
slabs, foundations of buildings, residue of fires or other destroyed
improvements - the fee shall be as provided by a fee schedule maintained by the
City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to time.
      (2)   Moving of buildings or structures. From, to, through or inside of
the City of Wake Village, Texas - the fee shall be as provided by a fee
schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from
time to time.
      (3)   Remodeling.  The valuation of a remodeling shall be estimated at
the time of submission of the plans and specifications to the City
Superintendent.
      (4)   Work without a permit.  If work for which a permit is required by
this code is begun or proceeded with prior to obtaining a permit, or continued
after cancellation of a permit, the fees herein shall be doubled in addition to
all other penalties under this code.
(Ord. 18-82, passed 9-13-1982)
CONSTRUCTION IN THE CITY
§ 150.45  NO REBATES ON FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS.
   No rebates shall be paid on future developments for streets to developers,
for amounts expended by developers for streets.  All existing agreements for
the payment of rebates shall continue according to the agreement, but all
future payments shall be made from the water and sewer accounts, after payment
of operating expenses and bonded indebtedness.
(Ord. 20-81, passed 12-14-1981)
§ 150.46  COMPLIANCE.
   All subdivisions, utility mains and services, streets and alleys, sidewalks
and rights-of-way, and other improvements constructed, modified or improved
within the city, shall be constructed in accordance with this and the other
several ordinances pertaining to construction and improvements passed by this
City Council.  No deviations shall be made from this subchapter or any other
ordinance, except by compliance with the specific method provided for
amendment, modification, or variance from the ordinance concerned.
(Ord. 20-81, passed 12-14-1981)
§ 150.47  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY ENGINEER.  Any person or firm hired, contracted, or engaged by the city
to supervise, oversee, manage, or administer any construction or contracts of
any streets, utilities, or other improvements within the city, or perform any
other engineering services, or render any engineering services to the city.
   DEVELOPER.  Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, entity, or
association proposing to perform any of the following:
      (1)   Developing areas, dividing land into lots or blocks, dedicating
streets, alleys and areas for public use and constructing streets in or on land
being a part of the city, or which may hereafter become part of the city,
laying utility lines, mains, or services;
      (2)   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, entity, or association,
entering into any contract within the city, to construct one or more buildings
or structures in or upon land now or to become part of the city.
   SUBDIVISIONS, ADDITIONS, DEVELOPMENTS, or AREAS.  Geographic area of land,
described by lot or plat, or metes and bounds, divided into lots, blocks or
other platted areas, and containing streets, alleys, or rights-of-way or other
areas dedicated to the public use.
(Ord. 20-81, passed 12-14-1981)
§ 150.48  PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIRED.
   Prior to any development of any subdivision, lot, or area, or the proposed
construction of any streets, alleys, sidewalks, rights-of-way or utility mains
or services, the developer shall submit to the designated City Engineer, a plat
of the area proposed to be developed, showing thereon all streets, alleys,
rights-of-way and utilities, by location and dimension, and plans and
specifications for the construction of all such streets, alleys, and utility
mains and services.
(Ord. 20-81, passed 12-14-1981)
§ 150.49  APPROVAL OF CITY ENGINEER REQUIRED.
   All such plans and specifications and other documents and instruments
necessary for the construction of the streets, alleys, and utility mains and
services, for bid and the construction of the same, are subject to the approval
of the City Engineer, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. 20-81, passed 12-14-1981)
§ 150.50  COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   The City Council of the city shall, after advice from the City Engineer,
approve, amend or reject all the streets, alleys, and utility plans and
specifications.  All the streets, alleys, and utility mains shall be built and
constructed according to the plans and specifications, and in accordance with
good engineering standards as determined by the City Engineer.  The City
Engineer shall inspect, oversee, and approve construction in progress, the fees
for which shall be paid by the city.  No building permits or certificates of
occupancy shall be issued or allowed for property abutting streets, alleys, or
to be connected to utilities that are not approved or constructed in accordance
with this subchapter.
(Ord. 20-81, passed 12-14-1981)
§ 150.51  MAINTENANCE OF COMPLETED CONSTRUCTION FOR ONE YEAR.
   Each contractor will be primarily liable for the maintenance of his or her
construction for one year following acceptance of the improvements by the
city.  The contractors shall also furnish at the time of completion and
acceptance of the improvements by the city, a maintenance bond, in an amount
equal to 100% of the amount of the contract, guaranteeing the maintenance by
the contractor of the improvements for one year following the completion of the
improvements and acceptance by the city.
(Ord. 20-81, passed 12-14-1981)
§ 150.52  FUTURE PAYMENTS OF REBATES UNDER EXISTING CONTRACTS.
   All future payments of rebates, under existing contracts shall continue to
be paid, according to the terms of the original ordinance and agreement with
the developer, except as hereafter provided:
   (A)   The existing reimbursements due under existing contracts shall be paid
from the Water and Sewer Fund, in annual payments, the last payment no later
than ten years following the date of the execution of the contract, the first
payment being due on March 1, following the first calendar year after the
completion and acceptance of the streets and utilities by the city, and
thereafter in succeeding installments, on each succeeding March 1;
   (B)   The annual amount shall be equal to and shall not exceed an amount
equal to one-half of the taxes collected on the single-family residential
properties for the prior year, in the developments, and abutting the streets
constructed, and connected to the utility mains and services paid for and
provided by the developer, unless a specific deviation from this method of
calculation is approved by the City Council;
   (C)   No revenue from any lot or house shall be considered that has been
included in any reimbursement to any developer, under this subchapter or any
other similar ordinance;
   (D)   Should any lots within the area, development or subdivision be owned
by the developer, on which ad valorem property taxes are due on the payment
date, all such taxes shall be deducted from any proposed payment, to include
penalties and applicable interest;
   (E)   No developer shall be paid an amount in excess of that he or she has
paid to the city, for street construction within the development.  Any amounts
remaining unpaid at the end of a calendar year shall be carried forward to the
next year, and paid in pro rata amounts for the succeeding years up to the
limitation contained herein.  No such deferred funds shall bear interest or
penalty for untimely payment. If funds are due more than one developer, and
surplus funds from current water and sewer revenue are not available, the funds
shall be paid first in the order incurred, until each developer has been paid
in full for the earliest year in question, and then for each succeeding year in
the order incurred.
   (F)   No amounts shall be paid any developer, under this subchapter or any
agreement made in reference to this subchapter, if there are any amounts due
the city for maintenance of the streets or utilities, from the developer, and
unless on an annual basis, the condition of the streets and utilities is
inspected and approved by the City Engineer; and
   (G)   No payments shall be made under this subchapter or any other ordinance
that violate the terms and conditions of Water and Sewer Improvement Bond
issue, dated June 1, 1980.
(Ord. 20-81, passed 12-14-1981)
§ 150.53  NOTICE TO PERFORM REPAIRS; LIABILITY TO CITY FOR COSTS.
   The contractors or developers responsible and liable for the maintenance of
streets and utilities will be given reasonable notice by the city and the first
opportunity to perform the necessary repairs and maintenance.  If it is
determined by the City Engineer that the maintenance and repairs must be
performed immediately in order to prevent property damage or personal injury,
the city may make all necessary repairs, and the responsible party shall
thereafter be liable to the city for the reasonable cost of repairs.
(Ord. 20-81, passed 12-14-1981)
§ 150.54  EXEMPTION FROM LIABILITY.
   No contractor or developer shall be liable for repairs occasioned or caused
by streets or utilities being torn up, removed, or damages caused by or at the
direction of the city.
(Ord. 20-81, passed 12-14-1981)
§ 150.55  FAILURE TO PERFORM REPAIRS; LIABILITY TO CITY FOR COSTS.
   Should the responsible party fail to make any required repairs within a
reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days of being notified by the city, the city
is authorized and may make the repairs, and the responsible party shall be
liable to the city for the reasonable costs of repair.
(Ord. 20-81, passed 12-14-1981)
§ 150.56  INTEREST FOR CITY-PAID REPAIRS.
   Any charges or costs of maintenance, provided by the city, which are the
responsibility of any contractor or developer, shall bear interest at the rate
of 10% per annum from and after 30 days following the completion of the repairs
and billing of the contractor and developer by the city.  The contractor or
developer shall additionally be responsible and liable for reasonable
attorneys’ fees, court costs, and other reasonable costs of collection of any
amounts due, in addition to the reasonable costs of repairs and maintenance.
(Ord. 20-81, passed 12-14-1981)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
150.16 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction shall be
fined an amount not to exceed $500.  Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 7-17-2006)
CHAPTER 151:  DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   General prohibition;
   
151.03   Inspection; notice of violation; hearing
   
151.04   Contents of notice
   
151.05   Findings of hearing
   
151.06   Action by city; recovery of expense
§ 151.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING.  Any structure of any kind or character, or any part thereof,
which has been erected upon any land within the city, irrespective of the
material from which the structure has been built.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.  A building which possesses one or more of the following
qualities:
      (1)   Any building with roof, ceiling, floor, seal or foundation, or any
combination thereof, which is rotted or decayed and falling apart; with windows
out, uninhabitable, untenantable, and/or unsightly due to obsolescence and
deterioration caused by neglect, vandalism, fire damage, aging, or the
elements.
      (2)   Any building in danger of falling and injuring any person or other
property which might be on and about the premises.
      (3)   Any building which is a fire menace by virtue of containing in or
near the building an accumulation of trash, rubbish, and/or debris; or which,
by virtue of abandonment or neglect, is likely to attract children or
transients who may start fires on the premises; or which contains an
accumulation of combustible material which may take fire either by accident or
on purpose.
      (4)   Any building which is in the condition described in divisions (1),
(2), and (3) above, and which is damp or in an unsanitary condition and is
likely to create disease and sickness; or which is likely to provide breeding
places and habitat for snakes, rats, mice, and other vermin which are
detrimental to the public health.
      (5)   Any building, which is substandard, which for purposes of this
division means that the building does not possess all of the following
attributes:
         (a)   Functioning electrical power service including but not limited
to electric lights;
         (b)   Connection to the public water supply service of the city or a
properly functioning water well providing fresh water to the premises;
         (c)   Indoor plumbing including at least one wash basin and toilet and
a shower or bathtub facility (commercial and industrial properties are to have
a shower or bathtub facility).
         (d)   Exterior windows and exterior doors sufficient to exclude the
elements and capable of being secured to prevent unauthorized entry;
         (e)   Connection to the city sanitary sewer system, or to an approved
and functioning septic system; and
         (f)   A roof sufficient to repel water except for minor easily
correctable leaks.
(Ord. 21-94, passed 9-12-1994; Ord. 16-01, passed 11-12-2001)
§ 151.02  GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, maintain, or permit to stand
upon any premises within the city any dangerous buildings.  All such dangerous
buildings are hereby declared to be unlawful, and are hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 21-94, passed 9-12-1994; Ord. 16-01, passed 11-12-2001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03  INSPECTION; NOTICE OF VIOLATION; HEARING.
   (A)   An inspection shall be made of every building located within the city
which is suspected of being in violation of this chapter.  The Building
Official is hereby authorized to conduct inspections of all such buildings
suspected of being in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever a violation of this division has been discovered by and/or
reported to the City Building Official, the following actions shall be taken: 
The owner of the premises involved and the occupant, if any, together with any
lien holder or mortgagee having a lien upon the premises shall be given a
written notification of the nature of the violation and the date on which a
public hearing will be held for a determination by the City Council as to
whether or not the owner should be directed to either repair, remove or
demolish the building.  The notice shall give the owner at least ten-days’
notice before the date for the scheduled hearing.  If the owner or his or her
address is unknown, a notice shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city on two different insertions within ten consecutive
days.  The public hearing shall not be held prior to the expiration of ten days
from the date of the first insertion in the newspaper.  Notice other than that
published in the newspaper shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested with a copy by regular mail to the address of the owner as reflected
on the records of the Bowie County Clerk and the Bowie County Appraisal
District Tax Records for the property.
(Ord. 21-94, passed 9-12-1994; Ord. 16-01, passed 11-12-2001; Am. Ord. 10-10,
passed 5-10-2010)
§ 151.04  CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The contents of the notice provided above or notice by publication shall be:
   (A)   Date of notice;
   (B)   Directed to the owner, if known, and his or her address, if known, and
if unknown:
      “To the owner of Lot           , Block           ,              Addition
to the City of Wake Village, Texas” or proper description, so that the lot may
be identified.
   (C)   State the date, time, and place for the scheduled public hearing.
   (D)   State that the purpose for the public hearing is to determine whether
or not the building is a dangerous or substandard building, and whether or not
the building should be repaired, removed or demolished.
   (E)   State that at the public hearing to determine whether a building
complies with the standards set forth in this chapter, the owner, lienholder,
or mortgagee has the burden of proof to demonstrate the scope of any work that
may be required to comply with this chapter and the time it will take to
reasonably perform the work.
   (F)   State that at the conclusion of a public hearing conducted under this
chapter, the municipality if it finds that a building should be repaired,
removed or demolished, shall require the owner, lienholder or mortgagee of the
building to secure the building from unauthorized entry, and/or repair, remove
or demolish the building within 30 days from the date of the order unless the
owner or lienholder establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably
be performed within 30 days.
   (G)   State that if the municipality allows the owner, lienholder or
mortgagee more than 30 days to repair, remove or demolish the building, the
municipality will establish specific time schedules for the commencement and
performance of the work and shall require the owner, lienholder or mortgagee to
secure the property in a reasonable manner from unauthorized entry while the
work is being performed as determined by the City Council.
   (H)   State that the municipality may not allow the owner, lienholder or
mortgagee more than 90 days to repair, remove or demolish the building or fully
perform all work required to comply with the order unless the owner,
lienholder, or mortgagee submits a detailed plan and time schedule for the work
at the public hearing and establishes at the hearing that the work cannot
reasonably be completed within 90 days because of the scope and complexity of
the work.
   (I)   State that if the municipality allows the owner, lienholder, or
mortgagee more than 90 days to complete any part of the work required to
repair, remove or demolish the building, the municipality shall require the
owner, lienholder, or mortgagee to regularly submit progress reports to the
city to demonstrate that the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee has complied with
the time schedules established for commencement and performance of the work.
   (J)   State that if the building is not vacated, secured, repaired, or
demolished within the allotted time, the city may vacate, secure, remove, or
demolish the building at its own expense.
   (K)   State that if the municipality incurs expenses in vacating, securing,
repairing, removing, or demolishing the building, the city will assess the
expenses on, and the city will have a lien against, unless it is a homestead as
protected by the Texas Constitution, the property on which the building is
located and that the lien is a privileged lien subordinate only to tax liens
and all previously recorded bonafide mortgage liens upon the property.
(Ord. 21-94, passed 9-12-1994; Ord. 16-01, passed 11-12-2001; Am. Ord. 6-12,
passed 5-14-2012)
§ 151.05  FINDINGS OF HEARING.
   (A)   After the public hearing provided for in §
151.03, the City Council shall make a finding as to whether or not the building
is a dangerous or substandard building, the City Council shall direct that the
building be repaired to the minimum standards for continued use and occupancy
that apply to all buildings in the city, or that the building be removed, or
that the building be demolished.
   (B)   The City Council shall set a reasonable time within which the repairs,
removal or demolition shall be completed.  The City Council shall require the
owner, lien holder, or mortgagee of the building to repair, remove, or demolish
the building within 30 days of the order unless the owner or lien holder
establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be performed within
30 days.  If the City Council allows the owner, lien holder, or mortgagee more
than 30 days to repair, remove, or demolish the building, the City Council
shall establish specific time schedules for the commencement and performance of
the work and shall require the owner, lien holder, or mortgagee to secure the
property in a reasonable manner from unauthorized entry while the work is being
performed.  The City Council may not allow the owner, lien holder, or mortgagee
more than 90 days to repair, remove or demolish the building or fully perform
all work required to comply with the order unless it is established at the
hearing that the work cannot reasonably be completed within 90 days because of
the scope and complexity of the work.  If the City Council allows the owner,
lien holder, or mortgagee more than 90 days to complete any part of the work
required to repair, remove, or demolish the building, the City Council shall
require the owner, lien holder, or mortgagee regularly to submit progress
reports to the Building Official to demonstrate that the owner, lien holder, or
mortgagee has complied with the time schedules established for commencement and
performance of the work.
   (C)   The City Council shall enter an order setting the time within which
the building shall be secured, repaired, or demolished by the owner and an
additional reasonable time as provided by this section for the ordered action
to be taken by any of the mortgages or lien holders in the event the owner
fails to comply with the order within the time provided for action by the
owner.
   (D)   Within ten days after the date that the order is issued, the city
shall file a copy of the order in the office of the City Secretary; and publish
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city a notice containing the
street address or legal description of the property, the date of the hearing, a
brief statement indicating the results of the order, and the instructions
stating where a complete copy of the order may be obtained.  The city shall
also promptly mail the owner of the building.  If the owner does not take the
ordered action within the allotted time, the city shall promptly mail by
certified mail, return receipt requested, and also by regular mail, a copy of
the order to any lien holder or mortgagee of the building.  The city shall use
the records in the office of the County Clerk of Bowie County, Texas, to
determine, if possible, the identity and address of any owner, lien holder, or
mortgagee of the building for purposes of notice.
(Ord. 21-94, passed 9-12-1994; Ord. 16-01, passed 11-12-2001; Am. Ord. 10-10,
passed 5-10-2010)
§ 151.06  ACTION BY CITY; RECOVERY OF EXPENSE.
   If, at the expiration of the allotted time prescribed by the City Council
for the repair or removal of a dangerous building under this chapter, the
repair or removal has not been completed, the city may remove the building
itself, or contract to have the building removed.  If the city incurs removal
expenses under the provisions of this chapter, it shall have a lien against the
property to which the building was attached as provided for in Tex. Loc. Gov’t
Code, §§ 214.001 et seq.  To affix a lien against the property, the Mayor shall
execute an affidavit stating the action taken, dates, and action of officials
and the Council, setting forth the costs incurred by the city and describing
the property as required in deeds of conveyance, including the statement:  “The
City of Wake Village, Texas, claims a lien, second only to taxes, against the
above described property for the herein-described work performed.”  The lien
shall be extinguished, and the Mayor shall sign a proper release, if the
property owner reimburses the city for the removal expenses incurred by the
city.
(Ord. 21-94, passed 9-12-1994; Ord. 16-01, passed 11-12-2001)
CHAPTER 152:  TRAILER, MOBILE HOME, AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   License and temporary permit
   
152.03   License fees and temporary permit fees
   
152.04   Application for license
   
152.05   Mobile/HUD manufactured park plan
Services
   
152.15   Water supply
   
152.16   Sanitation facilities
   
152.17   Service buildings and grounds
   
152.18   Sewage and refuse disposal
   
152.19   Garbage receptacles
   
152.20   Fire protection
   
152.21   Animals and pets
Administrative Provisions
   
152.35   Register of occupants
   
152.36   Supervision
   
152.37   Revocation of license
   
152.38   Posting of license and temporary permits
   
152.39   Trailers outside licensed park
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME.  A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and
a bath or shower.
   HUD-CODE MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure constructed on or after June 15,
1976, according to the rules of the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the
traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet in length,
or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems.  Anything less
than the length and/or width specified in this paragraph shall not be allowed
in a HUD-CODE MANUFACTURED HOME park.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME.  A mobile home which has a flush toilet, a bath or
shower, and a sink.
   LICENSEE.  A person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile/HUD
manufacturing home park under the provisions of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME.  Any vehicle or similar portable structure having a foundation
consisting of wheels or places for wheels, jacks, skirtings, or any other
temporary contrivance, and so designed or constructed as to permit occupancy
for dwelling or sleeping purposes.
   MOBILE/HUD MANUFACTURING HOME PARK.  Any plot of ground upon which
facilities are provided for locating one or more mobile homes to be occupied
for dwelling or sleeping purposes, regardless of whether or not a charge is
made for such accommodation.
   MOBILE/HUD MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE.  A plot of ground within a mobile/HUD
manufactured home park designed for the accommodation of one home.
   NATURAL or ARTIFICIAL BARRIER.  Any embankment, fence, hedge, or other
feature that serves to block direct pedestrian access or visibility.
   OPERATOR.  Includes the person in charge of operating any mobile/HUD
manufactured home park either under written or verbal lease, or any other
arrangement whereby he or she exercises control over the premises.
   OWNER.  The person in whose name the title to the lot, block, tract, or
parcel of land is shown to be.
   PERMITTEE.  Any person to whom a temporary permit is issued to maintain or
operate a mobile/HUD manufactured home park under the provisions of this
chapter.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
§ 152.02  LICENSE AND TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate a mobile/
HUD manufactured home park within the limits of the city, unless the person
shall first obtain a license therefor, except that the maintenance or operation
of a mobile/HUD manufactured home park in existence on the effective date of
this chapter may be continued under a temporary permit for such period of time
and under such conditions as are hereinafter prescribed.
   (B)   A temporary permit, upon written request therefor, shall be issued by
the City Secretary, City of Wake Village, Texas, for every mobile/HUD
manufactured home park in existence upon the effective date of this chapter,
without being subject to the provisions of this chapter, except such of the
provisions as are made expressly applicable to permittees.  The temporary
permit shall allow the permittee to maintain and operate the park for a period
of 90 days after the effective date hereof.
   (C)   The term of the temporary permit may be extended, upon written
request, for one additional period not to exceed 90 days, if:
      (1)   The permittee shall have filed application for a license in
conformity with §
152.04 within 90 days after the effective date hereof.
      (2)   The permittee is of good moral character, and the park plans and
specifications accompanying the application for license comply with all
provisions of this chapter and all applicable ordinances and statutes.
      (3)   The permittee shall have diligently endeavored to make the existing
park conform fully to such plans and specifications as were submitted with the
application.
      (4)   Failure to make the existing park conform fully to the plans and
specifications shall have been due to causes beyond the control of the
permittee.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03  LICENSE FEES AND TEMPORARY PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fee for each mobile/HUD manufactured home shall be
in accordance with the following schedule: as provided by a fee schedule
maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from time to
time.
   (B)   The fee for transfer of a license shall be as provided by a fee
schedule maintained by the City Secretary, adopted by the City Council from
time to time.
   (C)   The temporary permit fee for each 90-day period shall be one-half the
annual license fee prescribed in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
§ 152.04  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for initial license. 
      (1)   Application for an initial mobile/HUD manufactured home park
license shall be filed with and issued by the City Secretary, City of Wake
Village, Texas.  The application shall be in writing, signed by the applicant
and shall include the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The location and legal description of the mobile/HUD
manufactured home park;
         (c)   A complete plan of the park drawn to scale in conformity with
the requirements of §
152.05;
         (d)   Plans and specifications of all buildings, improvements and
facilities constructed or to be constructed within the park; and
         (e)   Such further information as may be requested by the City
Secretary, City of Wake Village, Texas, to enable him or her to determine if
the proposed park will comply with legal requirements.
      (2)   The application and all accompanying plans and specifications shall
be filed in triplicate.  The City Superintendent of the city shall initiate an
investigation of the applicant and shall inspect the application and the
proposed plans and specifications.  If the proposed park will, when constructed
or altered in accordance with the plans and specifications, be in compliance
with all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable ordinances and
statutes, the City Superintendent of the city shall approve the applications,
and upon completion of the park according to the plans, shall issue the
license.
   (B)   Application for renewal license.  Upon application in writing by a
licensee for renewal of a license and upon payment of the annual license fee,
the City Superintendent of the city shall inspect applicant’s mobile/HUD
manufactured home park.  If the park complies with all the requirements of this
chapter and with all applicable ordinances and statutes, a renewal license
shall be issued for a period of one year.
   (C)   Application for transfer of license.  Upon application in writing for
transfer of a license and payment of the transfer fee, the City Superintendent
of the city shall issue a transfer if, after investigation, the transferee
appears to be of good moral character.
   (D)   Expiration date of license.  All licenses issued under the terms and
conditions of this chapter shall expire on December 31 following the issuance
date.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
§ 152.05  MOBILE/HUD MANUFACTURED PARK PLAN.
   The park plans shall be approved by the City Superintendent and shall
conform to the following requirements:
   (A)   The park shall be located on a well-drained site, properly graded to
ensure rapid drainage and freedom from standing pools of water.
   (B)   Spaces shall be provided consisting of a minimum of 1,800 square feet
for each space which shall be at least 30 feet wide and clearly defined;
provided, however, that mobile/HUD manufactured home parks in existence on the
effective date hereof which provide spaces having a width or area less than
that hereinabove prescribed may continue to operate with spaces of the existing
width and area, but in no event shall any space be less than 25 feet wide and
have an area of less than 1,250 square feet.
   (C)   Mobile/HUD manufactured homes shall be so harbored on each space that
there shall be at least a 15-foot clearance between each home; provided,
however, that with respect to homes parked end-to-end, the end-to-end clearance
may be less than 15 feet, but shall not be less than ten feet.  No home shall
be located closer than 15 feet to any building within the park or to any
property line boundary bounding the park.
   (D)   All spaces shall abut upon a driveway of not less than 20 feet in
width, which shall have unobstructed access to a public street, alley, or
highway.  Off-street parking facilities in the ratio of one and one-half spaces
for each home space shall be provided.
   (E)   Walkways not less than two feet shall be provided from the home spaces
to the service buildings.
   (F)   All driveways and walkways within the park shall be provided with an
all-weather surface and lighted at night with electric lamps of not less than
25 watts each, spaced at intervals of not more than 100 feet.
   (G)   Each park shall provide service buildings to house the toilet,
bathing, and other sanitation facilities.
   (H)   An electrical outlet supplying at least 110 volts shall be provided
for each space.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a mobile/HUD
manufactured park or occupying a mobile/HUD manufactured home to construct or
permit to be constructed in the park or in connection with the home any
additional structure, building, or shelter in connection with or attached to a
home; provided, however, carports and awnings of canvas or metal, suitably
constructed, may be attached to the home.
   (J)   Use of the mobile/HUD manufactured parks will be restricted to
independent homes, with permanent water and sewer connections provided to each
space, to be provided by the park.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
SERVICES
§ 152.15  WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and sanitary purposes
shall be supplied by pipes to all buildings and to all mobile/HUD manufactured
home spaces within the park to meet the requirements of the park.  Each of the
individual home spaces shall be provided with permanent water and sewer
connections to be affixed to the home before occupancy.
   (B)   All plumbing work performed within the park shall comply in all
respects with the requirements of the Plumbing Code of the city.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
§ 152.16  SANITATION FACILITIES.
   No provision is made in this chapter for the accommodation of dependent
mobile/HUD manufactured homes and license for such usage will not be issued, it
being the intent of the City Council members that each home, as a health
measure, shall be duly connected to the water/sewer systems of the city.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
§ 152.17  SERVICE BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.
   (A)   Service buildings housing sanitation and laundry facilities, or any of
those facilities, shall be permanent structures complying with all applicable
ordinances and statutes regulating buildings, electrical installations, and
plumbing and sanitation systems.
   (B)   The service buildings shall be well lighted at all times of the day
and nights, shall be well ventilated with screened openings, shall be
constructed of such moisture-proof material, including painted woodwork, as
shall permit repeated cleaning and washing, and shall be maintained at a
temperature of at least 68º Fahrenheit during the period from October 1 to May
1.  The floors of the service buildings shall be of water-impervious material.
   (C)   Service buildings housing sanitation facilities shall be located not
closer than 15 feet nor farther than 200 feet from any mobile/HUD manufactured
home space upon which a dependent mobile/HUD manufactured home is harbored.
   (D)   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be maintained
in a clean, sightly condition and kept free of any condition that will menace
the health of any occupant or the public or constitute a nuisance.  The use of
any service building or the grounds of any mobile/HUD manufactured home park
for the storage of inoperative or unsightly motor vehicles or other materials
is prohibited.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
§ 152.18  SEWAGE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories, slop
sinks, and laundries in service and other buildings within the park shall be
discharged into a public sewer system in compliance with applicable ordinances.
   (B)   Each home space shall be provided with a trapped sewer at least four
inches in diameter, which shall be connected to receive the waste from the
shower, bathtub, flush toilet, lavatory, and kitchen sink of the home harbored
in that space and having any or all of these facilities.  The trapped sewer in
each space shall be connected to discharge the home waste into a public sewer
system in compliance with applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
§ 152.19  GARBAGE RECEPTACLES.
   Garbage and rubbish shall be collected and disposed of in compliance with
Chapter 51 of this code of ordinances.  Fees for collection and disposal of
garbage shall be in accordance with the applicable ordinances of the city
governing and regulating residential services.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
§ 152.20  FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Every park shall install water mains of a minimum of six inches in
diameter, properly looped and with fire hydrants installed on minimum distances
to satisfy applicable reasonable regulations of the Fire Department. 
   (B)   Bottled gas for cooking purposes shall not be used at individual home
spaces unless the containers are properly connected by copper or other suitable
metallic tubing.  Bottled gas cylinders shall be securely fastened in place. 
No cylinder containing bottled gas shall be located within five feet of any
home door.  State and local regulations applicable to the handling of bottled
gas and fuel must be followed.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21  ANIMALS AND PETS.
   No owner or keeper of any dog, cat or other pet animal shall permit it to
run at large or to become a nuisance within the limits of any mobile/HUD
manufactured park.  All applicable ordinances and statutes regarding the
keeping of animals within the city, shall apply to mobile/HUD manufactured home
parks.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
§ 152.35  REGISTER OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each licensee and permittee to keep a register
containing a record of all home owners and occupants located within the park. 
The register shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of each home occupant;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner of each home and motor vehicle by
which it is towed;
      (3)   The make, model, year, and license number of each home and motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The state, territory, or country issuing the license;
      (5)   The date of arrival and of departure of each home; and
      (6)   Whether or not each home is a dependent or independent home.
   (B)   The Park shall keep the register available for inspection at all times
by law enforcement officers, public health officials, and other officials whose
duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the register. 
The register record for each occupant registered shall not be destroyed for a
period of three years following the date of departure of the registrant from
the park.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
§ 152.36  SUPERVISION.
   (A)   The licensee or permittee, or a duly authorized manager, attendant, or
caretaker, shall be in charge at all times to keep the mobile/HUD manufactured
home park, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary
condition.
   (B)   The manager, attendant, or caretaker shall be answerable, with the
licensee or permittee, for the violation of any provision of this chapter to
which the licensee or permittee is subject.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
§ 152.37  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Superintendent may revoke any license to maintain and operate a
park when the licensee has been found guilty by a court of competent
jurisdiction of violating any provision of this chapter or of failing to permit
inspections under any provision of this chapter.  After such conviction, the
license may be re-issued if the circumstances leading to conviction have been
remedied and the park is being maintained and operated in full compliance with
the law.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
§ 152.38  POSTING OF LICENSE AND TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   The license certificate or temporary permit shall be conspicuously posted in
the office of or on the premises of the park at all times.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
§ 152.39  TRAILERS OUTSIDE LICENSED PARK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate or maintain any mobile/
HUD manufactured home in any place in the city, other than a duly licensed and
lawful mobile/HUD manufactured home park.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to maintain,
locate or live in any such mobile/HUD manufactured home without first obtaining
the necessary building, plumbing, and electrical permits from the City
Secretary of the city.
   (C)   (1)   Where mobile trailers or HUD manufactured homes have been
located inside the city limits but outside of approved and licensed mobile/HUD
manufactured home parks prior to the enactment of this chapter, no additional
permits of any kind shall be issued by the inspection division of the
Department of Public Works of the city for any work on the property on which
the home is located, until the home has been removed or permission obtained as
outlined hereinabove.
      (2)   In instances where an owner has a mobile/HUD manufactured home
legally located in the city limits of the city, the home may continue at that
location, but the home may not be moved and another substituted in its place
without securing approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the City
Council of the city.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating this chapter shall be fined not less than $5 and not
more than $200 for each offense with each day being a separate offense.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 21-97, passed 9-23-1997)
CHAPTER 153:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
153.05   Definitions
General Regulations
   
153.15   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.16   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
153.17   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
153.18   Compliance
   
153.19   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.20   Interpretation
   
153.21   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.35   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.36   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.37   Permit procedures
   
153.38   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.50   General standards
   
153.51   Specific standards
   
153.52   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
153.53   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones)
   
153.54   Floodways
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Texas has in the Flood Control Insurance
Act, Tex. Water Code § 16.315, delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. 
Therefore, the  City Council of Wake Village, Texas, does ordain as follows in
this chapter.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)
§ 153.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of  Wake Village are subject to periodic
inundation that results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains that cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)
§ 153.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas, by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges, located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood-
blight areas; and
   (G)   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)
§ 153.04  METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development that may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the constructiuon of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)
§ 153.05  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage, and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING.  Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform, which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX.  A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE.  A structure that is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured, and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD.  The land area that would be
inundated by the 1%-annual-chance (100-year) flood, based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.  A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO Zone on
a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet, where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,
and where velocity flow may be evident.  Such flooding is characterized by
ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.  The area may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM).  After
detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the
FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/
A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equalled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE, which indicates the water surface
elevation resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or
exceeding that level in any given year, also called the “base flood”.
   BASEMENT.  Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL.  A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building, and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE.  An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any man-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.  For insurance purposes, a nonbasement building that has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.  For the purposes of determining rates, structures
for which the“start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date.  EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.  An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).  See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM.  Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended, and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within a community subject to a “special flood hazard”, and the
extent of the depths of associated flooding.  Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes.  These specialized
flood-modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA.  Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see definition of flooding).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.  The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.  Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power.  The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING.  Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY.  See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE.  A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.  The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship-building and ship-repair
facilities; but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs that have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE.  A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.  A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement).  An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of §
60.3 of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
built on a permanent chassis and designed for use with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities.  The term MANUFACTURED
HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. 
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL.  For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  For the purpose of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.  For
floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the
“start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less, when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE.  Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348), includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date.  The ACTUALSTART means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. 
PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds,
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.  For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE.  For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above
ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement.  This term includes structures that have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.  The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
that have been identified by the local code enforcement official, and that are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation.  (For full requirements, see § 60.6 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.  A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)
(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program
regulations is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION.  The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.15  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of  Wake Village, Texas.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)
§ 153.16  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
“The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Bowie County, Texas and Incorporated
Areas”, dated December 21, 2017, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate
Maps and/or Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps (FIRMs and/or FBFMs), dated December
21, 2017; and any revisions thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)
§ 153.17  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.18  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.19  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions.  However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)
§ 153.20  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)
§ 153.21  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes, and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations.  On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur, and
flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes.  This chapter
does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard, or uses
permitted within those areas, will be free from flooding or flood damages. 
This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the community, or any
official or employee thereof, for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter, or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.35  DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The  City Administrator is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 C.F.R. (Emergency Management and Assistance - National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)
§ 153.36  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits required by adoption of this chapter;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344) from which prior approval is required;
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation;
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency, which is the Texas Water Development Board (TWDB), and
also the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of that
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
153.16, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
153.50et seq.;
   (I)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community; and
   (J)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, § 65.12, of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones Al-30, AE and AH on the community’s FIRM that increases
the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided
that the community first completes all of the provisions required by § 65.12.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)
§ 153.37  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator, on forms furnished by him or her, and may
include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the
location, dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing
and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard. 
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which any
nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
153.51(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
153.36(A).
   (B)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter, and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters, and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.38  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal the decision in the courts of competant jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal, and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size,
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, provided the relevant factors in §
153.37(B) of this subchapter have been fully considered.  As the lot size
increases beyond one-half acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter, as set forth in §
153.03.
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures, upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic
structure, and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic
character and design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense,  create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements, and for other development necessary for the conduct
of a functionally dependent use, provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) of this section
have been met; and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.50  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the system into floodwaters; and
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them, or contamination from them, during flooding.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.51  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §
153.16, §
153.36(H) or §
153.52(C), the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction.  New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated to two feet or above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division, as proposed
in §
153.37(A)(1), has been satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction.  New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to two feet or
above the base flood level, or, together with attendent utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads, and the effects of buoyancy.  A registered professional
engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural design,
specifications and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the
design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
practice as outlined in this division.  A record of this certification, which
includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the
structures are floodproofed, shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures.  New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement, and that
are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters.  Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls, having a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding, shall be provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage.  For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement.  Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.  This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites: (a)
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, (b) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, (c) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision, or (d) in an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a
result of a flood; be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home is elevated to two feet or above the base flood
elevation, and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, within Zones A1-
30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
division (D) of this section, be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at two feet or
above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers,
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength, that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade, and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. 
      (1)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A1-
30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements of §
153.37(A), and the elevation and anchoring requirements for “manufactured
homes” in division (D) of this section.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is READY FOR HIGHWAY USE if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick, disconnect-
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.52  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall be consistent with §§
153.02,
153.03 and
153.04.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
153.17,
153.37, and the provisions of §§
153.50et seq.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is lesser,
if not otherwise provided pursuant to §
153.16 or §
153.36(H).
   (D)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities, such
as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, located and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 9-87, passed 3-9-1987; Am. Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17,
passed 12-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.53  STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES).
   (A)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
153.16 are areas designated as areas of shallow flooding.
      (1)   These areas have special flood hazards associated with flood depths
of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the
path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident.
      (2)   Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   (B)   Therefore, the following provisions apply:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to two
feet or above the base flood elevation, or the highest adjacent grade at least
as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least
two feet if no depth number is specified); or
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall;
         (a)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to two feet
or above the base flood elevation, or the highest adjacent grade at least as
high as the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least
two feet if no depth number is specified); or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
designed so that below the base specified flood depth in an AO Zone, or below
the base flood elevation in an AH Zone, the structure is watertight, with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads, and the effects of buoyancy.
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in §
153.37, are satisfied.
      (4)   Within Zones AH or AO, require adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17, passed 12-11-2017)  Penalty, see
§
153.99
§ 153.54  FLOODWAYS.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
153.16 are areas designated as floodways.  Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area, due to the velocity of floodwaters carrying debris, potential
projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway, unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses, performed in accordance with standard engineering practice, that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
153.50et seq.
   (C)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, § 65.12, of the National
Flood Insurance Program Regulations, a community may permit encroachments
within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base
flood elevations, provided that the community first completes all of the
provisions required by § 65.12.
(Ord. 9-17, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter by
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor.  Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $500 for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case.  Nothing contained herein shall prevent the City
Council from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 12-10, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 9-17, passed 12-11-2017)
CHAPTER 154:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Subdivision regulations, adopted
§ 154.01  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS, ADOPTED.
   The laws and policies regarding the establishment of subdivisions in the
City of Wake Village, Texas, as set forth in Exhibit A to Ordinance 35-83, are
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.  Copies are available
through city offices.
(Ord. 35-83, passed 12-12-1983; Am. Ord. 3-10, passed 3-8-2010)
CHAPTER 155:  ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Zoning code, adopted
§ 155.01  ZONING CODE, ADOPTED.
   The comprehensive zoning ordinance for the City of Wake Village, Texas, as
set forth in Exhibit A to Ordinance 10-75, is hereby adopted by reference as if
set out in full herein.  Copies are available through city offices.
(Ord. 10-75, passed 4-9-1975; Ord. 13-75, passed 9-25-1975; Ord. 15-79, passed
8-13-1979; Ord. 10-00, passed 7-11-2000; Ord. 8-04, passed 8-9-2004; Ord. 10-
06, passed 7-17-2006)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   BONDS
      
II.   AGREEMENTS, CONTRACTS AND FRANCHISES
      
III.   LAND TRANSACTIONS
      
IV.   EASEMENTS; STREET VACATIONS
      
V.   DEDICATIONS AND NAME CHANGES
      
VI.   ZONING CHANGES
      
VII.   ANNEXATIONS AND JURISDICTIONAL AGREEMENTS
TABLE I:  BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
15-80    8-11-1980   Authorizing the issuance of waterworks and sewer system
                     revenue bonds
16-80    8-11-1980   Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds
 
TABLE II:  AGREEMENTS, CONTRACTS AND FRANCHISES
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Designating representatives in dealing with Texas Parks
Res. 6-94 - -         and Wildlife Department for participation in grant
                      programs
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
Res. - -    Designating representatives in dealing with Texas Parks and Wildlife Department
6-94        for participation in grant programs
Res. - -    Exclusive ambulance service agreement with LifeNet
1-97
4-52 4-30-  Transfer of vehicles-for-hire franchise from Goodwin Trucking Company to Orin
     1952   F. Rehkopf
1-56 2-13-  Authorizing City Council to enter necessary agreements for federal Old-Age and
     1956   Survivors Insurance benefits
12-  2-14-  Mutual aid agreement for fire protection with City of Texarkana
64   1964
R5-  10-9-  Approving water supply contract with City of Texarkana
68   1968
7-68 12-4-  Authorizing sale of city’s light and electric power distribution system to
     1968   Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO)
2-69 4-21-  Authorizing execution of sale of city’s light and electric power distribution
     1969   system to Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO)
Res. 6-11-  City to join in creation of Interstate Regional Planning Commission and
4-69 1969   adoption of articles of agreement
Res. 8-25-  Authorizing City Manager to execute contract with City of Texarkana for
7-69 1969   disposal of garbage at sanitary landfill for one year
Res. 3-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to send law enforcement officers to assist any other
4-72 1972   county/municipality
6-73 5-9-   Clarification of city’s and contractor’s responsibility regarding construction
     1973   of utility, water, and sewer facilities
Res. 12-10-
10-  1973   Mutual aid agreement for fire protection with Red River Army Depot
73
Res. 1-9-   Mutual aid agreement for fire protection with City of Nash
1-74 1974
8-74 5-15-  Authorizing six-month contract with Western Refuse of Texas for garbage hauling
     1974   and disposal
18-  12-11- Contract with Western Refuse of Texas for hauling of garbage and the like, for
74   1974   ten years
2-75 2-12-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute agreements to include part-time employees in
     1975   Social Security coverage
Res. 2-9-   Allowing Fire Dept. to operate a concession stand at King Ball Park
5-76 1976
8-76 6-16-  Mutual aid agreement for fire protection with Cities of Texarkana, Nash, Maud,
     1976   Hooks, and DeKalb
9-78 8-14-  Support of coordinated Texarkana Areawide Waste Treatment Plan and
     1978   implementation
R2-  2-9-   Mutual aid agreement for fire protection with Red River Army Depot
81   1981
3-81 4-13-  Amending contract with Western Refuse of Texas, Inc. for garbage collection and
     1981   hauling
R10- 9-14-  Authorizing contract with Housing Authority of Bowie County to administer
81   1981   community development block grant
R1-  2-22-  Approving contract with City of Texarkana to pay for portion of ambulance
82   1982   service costs
R12- 8-9-   Approving agreement with State Department of Highways for installation and
82   1982   maintenance of highway illumination devices within city limits
R13- 6-27-  Authorizing execution of contract with Texas Department of Community Affairs
83   1983   for TDCA liability amount and landscaping of public lands
1-84 2-13-  Authorizing contract with City of Texarkana for sewage treatment
     1984
R3-  3-12-  Authorizing agreement with Mr. Hugh J. Pratt for watercourse improvements
84   1984
R4-  3-26-  Acceptance of agreement with Times Mirror Cable Television of Texarkana, Inc.
84   1984   regarding franchise fees
11-  5-14-  Amending franchise ord. of 4-21-1969 to include street rental percentage
84   1984
R12- 6-26-  Amending contract with City of Texarkana regarding sewage treatment, cost of
84   1984   unit price
R20- 10-8-  Amending contract with City of Texarkana for sewage treatment
84   1984
22-  11-12- Amending Ord. 18-74, contract with Western Waste Industries, Inc. to extend
84   1984   contract term indefinitely
R10- 8-26-  Authorizing contract with Bowie County Appraisal District for collection of
85   1985   city taxes
Res. 11-4-
14-  1985   Authorizing agreement relating to jail facilities in New Boston
85
R15- 11-12- Authorizing Interlocal Governmental Tax Collection Contract with Bowie County
85   1985   Appraisal District
R2-  2-9-   Amending contract with City of Texarkana regarding sewage treatment
87   1987
Res. 10-19-
12-  1987   Authorizing lease agreement with GTE Leasing for new telephone system
87
Res. - -    Adopting Res. R6-85 and amending contract with Western Waste Industries of
10-  1988   Texas, Inc. for refuse handling and certificate of need
88
3-88 1-11-  Adopting Bowie County Law Enforcement Interlocal Assistance agreement for
     1988   emergency police services
Res. 1-25-  Adopting Bowie County Fire Association mutual aid agreement
4-88 1988
Res. 12-12- Approving contract for ambulance service with City of Texarkana to pay a
15-  1988   portion of costs
88
Res. 2-17-  Authorizing contract with City of Texarkana for sewage treatment
4-89 1989
Res. 6-12-  Authorizing agreement with Texas Municipal League for health insurance for city
6-89 1989   employees and dependents
Res. 1-5-   Approving contract with St. Michael Hospital for ambulance service
1-90 1990
Res. 2-12-  Incorporating Res. R6-85, contract for refuse handling, and amending rates for
5-90 1990   garbage collection
Res. 5-7-   Authorizing mutual aid agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection
7-90 1990
Res. 7-23-  Designating representatives in dealing with Texas Parks and Wildlife Department
8-90 1990   for participation in grant programs
Res. 6-10-  Authorizing Mutual Aid Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection
5-91 1991
14-  10-9-  Agreement with Texarkana Adopt-a-Pet, Inc. to accept dogs and cats from the
91   1991   city of Wake Village, for one year
Res. 10-14- Authorizing entry into Law Enforcement Interlocal Assistance agreement passed
12-  1991   by City of Texarkana
91
Res. 1-13-  Approving contract with St. Michael Hospital for ambulance service
1-92 1992
Res. 6-8-   Authorizing Mutual Aid Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection
7-92 1992
Res. 1-25-  Authorizing Mutual Aid Agreement with City of Nash for fire protection
3-93 1993
Res. 4-12-  Authorizing Mutual Aid Agreement with Red River Army Depot for fire protection
7-93 1993
Res. 5-10-  Amending contract with Western Waste Industries, Inc. for refuse handling dated
9-93 1993   7-13-1987, and extending term of contract
Res. 7-19-
14-  1993   Authorizing Mutual Aid Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection
93
Res. 7-19-  Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with Texas Municipal League’s Group Benefits
15-  1993   Risk Pool for health insurance
93
Res. 8-9-
16-  1993   Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for law enforcement
93
13-  9-13-  Authorizing Mayor to file FCC Forms 328 and 329 regarding cable service rates
93   1993   and programming, and creation of Greater Texarkana Cable Television Regulation
            Commission
Res. 1-24-  Approving contract with St. Michael Hospital for ambulance service
1-94 1994
Res. 4-11-  Authorizing Mayor to sign COBRA Administration Agreement with TML-Group
4-94 1994   Benefits Risk Pool
Res. 6-13-  Authorizing Interlocal Agreement for fire protection with City of Texarkana
5-94 1994
Res. 6-26-  Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection
8-95 1995
Res. 12-11- Approving cable television system franchise transfer from Cox Communications
16-  1995   Texarkana, Inc. to Post-Newsweek Cable
95
Res. 3-11-  Approving merger of Western Waste Industries with USA Waste Services, Inc.
2-96 1996
Res. 7-8-   Approving Interlocal Agreement with City of Nash for Phillips Village North
7-96 1996   subdivision
Res. 7-8-   Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection
8-96 1996
Res. 8-15-  Approving contract with LifeNet for ambulance service
9-96 1996
Res. 12-9-
12-  1996   Authorizing Mutual Aid Agreement for fire protection with Red River Army Depot
96
Res. - -    Exclusive ambulance service agreement with LifeNet
1-97
Res. 6-9-   Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection
7-97 1997
16-  7-28-  Granting franchise to SWEPCO for electric power distribution, for ten years
97   1997
3-98 5-12-  Amending contract for refuse handling with Western Waste Industries
     1998
Res. 6-9-   Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection
4-98 1998
Res. 12-8-  Authorizing Mutual Aid Agreement with Red River Army Depot
7-98 1998
Res. 6-8-   Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection
4-99 1999
Res. 9-28-  Authorizing contract with Hibernia Bank for Direct Bill Payment for city water
5-99 1999   customers
Res. 3-13-  Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with TML-Intergovernmental Employee Benefits
3-00 2000   Pool for insurance
Res. 6-13-  Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection
5-00 2000
Res. 11-13- Authorizing Mutual Aid Agreement for fire protection with Red River Army Depot
8-00 2000
Res. 3-13-  Authorizing Industrial Waste Pretreatment Agreement with City of Texarkana
2-01 2001
Res. 6-12-  Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection and
6-01 2001   rescue services
Res. 8-14-  Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection and
10-  2001   rescue services
01
Res. 10-9-  Authorizing execution of contract with Western Waste Industries, d/b/a Waste
12-  2001   Management
01
Res. 4-8-   Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with Bowie County to identify governmental
4-02 2002   entity authorized to regulate subdivision plats and approve permits in extra-
            territorial jurisdictions
Res. 5-13-  Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection and
6-02 2002   rescue services
3-02 6-10-  Granting cable system franchise to Cable One, Inc. for 10 years
     2002
Res. 11-11- Authorizing Mutual Aid Agreement for fire protection with Red River Army Depot
9-02 2002
Res. - -    Approving 3-11-2003 agreement with state for maintenance, control, supervision,
5-03 2003   and regulation of certain state highways
Res. 2-10-  Authorizing Interjurisdictional Mutual Aid Agreement with Bowie County for
2-03 2003   implementation of Texas First Responder Preparedness Program
Res. 6-9-   Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection and
6-03 2003   rescue services
Res. 6-14-  Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection and
6-04 2004   rescue services
Res. 8-9-   Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of New Boston for licensed and
10-  2004   authorized Building Inspector
04
Res. 8-9-   Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Hooks for a licensed and
11-  2004   authorized Building Inspector
04
Res. 10-11- Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with TML-Intergovernmental Employee Benefits
13-  2004   Pool for insurance
04
Res. 6-20-  Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection and
07-  2005   rescue services
05
3-06 2-13-  Authorizing execution of Participation Agreement No. 06-PA-01 and city to
     2006   become Participating Member in Wright Patman Regional Water Supply Agency
     2-13-  Authorizing execution of Participation Agreement No. 06-PA-02 with Wright
4-06 2006   Patman Regional Water Supply Agency for consulting services and plan to reduce
            infiltration/inflow
Res. 8-22-  Authorizing execution of Participation Agreement No. 06-PA-03 with Wright
16-  2006   Patman Regional Water Supply Agency for Building Inspector
06
Res. 6-11-  Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection and
3-07 2007   rescue services
9-07 8-23-  Granting franchise to SWEPCO for electric power distribution, for 25 years
     2007
Res. 3-10-  Authorizing Mutual Aid Agreement with Red River Army Depot for fire protetion
2-08 2008
Res. 4-14-  Authorizing an agreement with Apple Promotions, Inc., for the purpose of
5-08 2008   raising funds for the Wake Village Volunteer Fire Department
Res. 5-12-  Authorizing an Interlocal Agreement with City of Texarkana for fire protection
6-08 2008
Res. 5-5-   Authorizing a cooperative agreement with Cities of Annona, Avery, Hooks,
7-08 2008   Dekalb, Maud, New Boston, and Texarkana, Texas for the creation of a municipal
            water district
Res. 8-11-  Authorizing execution of an addendum to Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with
8-08 2008   Cities of Annona, Avery, Hooks, Dekalb, Maud, New Boston, and Texarkana, Texas
            dated May 6, 2008
Res. 5-11-  Authorizing an inter-jurisdictional mutual aid agreement between the City of
5-09 2009   Wake Village and Bowie County pursuant to the implementation of the Texas First
            Responder Preparedness Program
Res. 8-10-  Authorizing an interlocal agreement with the Texas Municipal League
8-09 2009   Intergovernmental Employee Benefits Pool to furnish insurance for city
            employees and dependents
Res. 10-12- Authorizing an interlocal agreement between the City of Wake Village and the
9-09 2009   Texas Department of Public Safety for management of failure to appear warrants
Res. 2-8-   County of Bowie and the Cities of Wake Village, Hooks, Nash, DeKalb, Maud,
2-10 2010   Redwater, Leary and Red Lick jointly adopt and approve the mitigation action
            plan
Ord. 3-1-   Authorizing water supply contract extensions and amendments with the City of
2-10 2010   Texarkana, Texas; Authorizing an interlocal cooperation agreement with
            Riverbend Water Resources District
Res. 8-9-   Approving and authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement
7-10 2010   between the City of Wake Village and the City of Texarkana, Texas, for the
            purpose of allowing a Texarkana, Texas, city-wide flood protection plan
Res. 4-11-  Approving and authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement
3-11 2011   between the City of Wake Village and the City of Texarkana, Texas, for fire
            protection and rescue service
Res. 6-13-  Approving and authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement
8-11 2011   between the City of Wake Village and the City of New Boston, Texas, for the use
            of a truck mounted street sweeper
Res. 8-12-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement between the City of
11-  2011   Wake Village and the Texas Municipal League Intergovernmental Employee Benefits
11          Pool to furnish insurance for the city’s employees and their dependents
Res. 1-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with McCreary, Veselka, Bragg,
01-  2012   and Allen, P.C., for the collection of delinquent municipal court fines, fees,
12          court costs, restitution, debts and accounts receivable and other accounts
Res. 1-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with Wilf and Henderson P.C.,
02-  2012   for the purpose of conducting the annual audit for the city
12
Res. 2-13-  Authorizing a mutual aid agreement for fire protection between the city and the
3-12 2012   Red River Army Depot
Res. 3-12-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with I.T. Works, for the
8-12 2012   purpose of providing computer hardware support for all departments of the city
Res. 3-12-  Approving and authorizing the Mayor to enter into an inter-local agreement with
9-12 2012   the City of Texarkana for emergency animal services
Res. 3-12-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter to an agreement with the Texarkana chapter of
10-  2012   Dixie Baseball to manage all baseball and t-ball activities at Wake Village
12          Parks
Res. 5-14-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute the conveyance of undivided interest agreement
11-  2012   between City of Texarkana and City of Wake Village
12
Res. 8-27-  Approving and authorizing the Mayor to enter into an inter-local agreement with
17-  2012   the City of Texarkana for spraying for mosquitoes
12
Res. 10-8-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement with the Texas
18-  2012   Municipal League Intergovernmental Employee Benefits Pool to furnish insurance
12          for the city’s employees and their dependents
Res. 12-10- Authorizing the award of contracts to GrantWorks and MTG Engineers to provide
20-  2012   Texas Community Development Block Grant projects
12
Res. 1-14-  Authorizing an agreement with Wilf and Henderson, P.C., for the purpose of
1-13 2013   conducting the annual audit for the city
Res. 2-11-  Authorizing an agreement with I.T. Works, for the purpose of providing computer
7-13 2013   hardware support for all departments of the city
Res. 4-8-   Approving an agreement between the State of Texas and the city for the
9-13 2013   maintenance, control, supervision, and regulations of certain state highways
            and/or portions of state highways in the city
Res.        Approving an interlocal agreement with the Cities of Annona, Dekalb, Hooks,
10-  5-13-  Maud, New Boston, Texarkana, and Wake Village to assemble a project team to
13   2013   evaluate the cost of relocating municipally-owned water lines accommodating the
            U.S. Highway 82 widening project
Res. 6-10-  Authorizing an interlocal agreement with Bowie County, Texas, for the purpose
14-  2013   of housing of certain inmates for the city
13
Res. 6-10-  Authorizing an interlocal agreement with the City of Texarkana, Texas, for
15-  2013   spraying for mosquitoes.
13
Res. 8-12-  Authorizing an interlocal agreement with the Texas Municipal League
16-  2013   Intergovernmental Employee Benefits Pool to furnish insurance for the city’s
13          employees and their dependents
Res. 1-12-  Authorizing an agreement with Wilf and Henderson, P.C. for the purpose of
1-15 2015   conducting the annual audit for the city
Res. 1-8-   Authorizing an agreement with Bowie Central Appraisal District for the purpose
04-  2015   of providing tax collection services for the city
15
Res. 2-9-   Authorizing an agreement with I.T. Works for the purpose of providing computer
8-15 2015   hardware support for all departments of the city
Res. 4-13-  Authorizing a Texas traffic safety program grant agreement and application and
11-  2015   designating the Mayor as the representative
15
Res. 1-11-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with Wilf and Henderson, P.C.,
4-16 2016   for the purpose of conducting the annual audit for the city
Res. 2-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with I.T. Works, for the
6-16 2016   purpose of providing computer hardware support for all departmentsof the city
Res. 10-10- Authorizing the award of professional service provider contracts for the 2017-
16-  2016   2018 TexasCommunity Development Fund Project
16
Res. 1-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement  with Wilf and Henderson,
3-17 2017   P.C., for purpose of conducting the annual audit for the city
Res. 1-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a new waste collection and services
4-17 2017   agreement  with Waste Management of Texas, Inc.
Res. 1-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a finance contract with Government Capital
6-17 2017   Corporation (GCC) for the purpose of financing a jetter trailer and related
            equipment
Res. 2-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement  with Texarkana,
8-17 2017   Texas, for the purpose of operating a communications system
Res. 2-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement  with the Texarkana
10-  2017   Independent School District for the purpose of sharing an election polling
17          place with the City of Texarkana
Res. 3-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement  with the City of
11-  2017   Texarkana, Texas, for the purpose of spraying for mosquitoes
17
Res. 3-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with I.T. Works, for the
12-  2017   purpose of providing computer hardware support for all departments of the city
17
Res. 5-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement  with Bowie County
14-  2017   for the purpose of housing certain inmates from the city
17
Res. 6-12-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement  with the Texas
19-  2017   Municipal League Benefits Risk Pool to furnish insurance to the city’s
17          employees and their dependents
           
 
TABLE III:  LAND TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
R15-80     12-8-1980   Accepting the tender and gift of land from Frank L.
                       King, Jr., and John H. King, described in Exhibit A
R17-84     8-13-1984   Authorizing purchase of real property for fire station,
                       described in Exhibit A
Res. 8-94  11-14-1994  Authorizing six-month contract for sale of approximately
                       three acres of land to Mr. Richard Reynolds
                       Authorizing the conveyance of property known as the
Res. 7-95  6-12-1995   Vernon Green Ballfield to the First Baptist Church of
                       Wake Village, described in Exhibit A
Res. 11-95 8-14-1995   Authorizing six-month contract for sale of approximately
                       2.196 acres of land to Supreme Realty
Res. 3-97  3-10-1997   Authorizing the exchange of property to adjust boundary
                       lines between the city and Mr. Loy Milton Ward
Res. 7-01  7-10-2001   Authorizing six-month contract for sale of approximately
                       2.196 acres of land to American Realty
Res. 10-03 9-8-2003    Authorizing six-month contract for sale of city property
                       on Redwater Road to Gerald Haire Realty
                       Authorizing the purchase of real property situated at
Ord. 5-09  5-11-2009   824 Burma Road described as Lot 21, Block 8, Wake
                       Village Addition, Wake Village, Texas
                      
 
TABLE IV:  EASEMENTS; STREET VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
16-  6-9-   Vacation and closing of Syble Drive from its intersection with Cavite
71   1971   Place to the end of Syble Drive
            Vacating all that certain tract or parcel of land situated in Lot or Block
11-  11-8-  2 and 4 of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, beginning at an iron pipe for
72   1972   corner in the west line of Lot or Block 2, being approximately 15 feet
            south of the original NW corner of Lot or Block 2 and in the east line of
            Lot or Block 4
7-80 2-11-  Vacating unnamed 50-foot street lying north of Lot 1, Block 2 in Runnels
     1980   City Subdivision
23-  12-8-  Vacating part of Johnny Avenue, beginning at a point for corner at the NW
80   1980   corner of Lot 87 in Block 9 of Runnels City First Addition, being the east
            ROW line of Johnny Avenue, containing 1.026 acres, more or less
R7-  3-8-   Approving the conveyance of a public roadway from Bowie County to A&M
82   1982   Contractors
11-  4-8-   Abandoning a ten-foot easement in Pine Forest First Addition between Lots
85   1985   4 and 5, Block 3
22-  10-13- Vacating easement covering the east five feet of Lot 15 in Block 5 of Pine
86   1986   Forest Third Addition
            Closing, abandoning and vacating part of the 50.00-foot street ROW known
4-95 6-12-  as Wake Avenue, between Blocks 1 and 7, beginning at a point on the north
     1995   ROW line of Wake Avenue, being the SE corner of Lot 1, Block 7; containing
            0.761 acre, more or less
     1-11-  Abandoning a 50-foot by 100-foot ROW designated as Lakeside Drive, between
2-00 2000   Lot 1, Block 2 and Lot 13, Block 1 of Revised First Addition to Lakeside
            County Club Addition
     2-8-   Vacating a five-foot utility easement, being the west five feet of Lot 3,
4-00 2000   Block 2 and the north five feet of Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 2 of the Revised
            First Addition to Lakeside County Club Addition
            Establishment of 20-foot access easement along the perimeter of a 5.893
6-00 4-11-  acre drainage basin, beginning at a point for corner at the lower SE
     2000   corner of Village North 13th, being on the west line of the 5.893 acre
            tract
Res. 4-8-   Approving a private ROW easement with Roger D. Dean
5-02 2002
4-08 4-14-  Abandoning and vacating a public ROW within the Nancy Dycus Headright
     2008   survey
9-13 5-13-  Abandoning and vacating a certain 0.251 acres in the Nancy Dycus Headright
     2013   survey.
1-16 1-11-  Vacating a portion of a 10 foot utility easement as  shown on the plat of
     2016   Kings Way Subdivision, a part of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, A-145
5-16 6-13-  Abandoning and vacating a certain lot situated in the Nancy Dycus
     2016   Headright Survey, A-145
           
 
TABLE V:  DEDICATIONS AND NAME CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
Res. 9-17-  Changing the name of Pioneer Place to Greenfield Drive
5-65 1965
Res. 8-5-   Changing the name of Brown Street to Cody Street
5-70 1970
Res. 9-8-   Changing the name of the Little League Baseball Park to The Vernon B. Green
6-71 1971   Little League Park
10-  6-12-  Changing the name of Robin Lane to Horseshoe Drive
74   1974
9-78 6-12-  Naming a street in the plat for Greenfield Eighth Addition as Telka Place
     1978
17-  11-27- Changing the name of Mockingbird Land to Candlewood Drive
78   1978
4-87 2-23-  Changing the name of Cherry Lane to Tiffany Drive
     1987
20-  12-11- Giving a name to the east frontage road of U.S. Highway 59 from the Cotton
89   1989   Belt Railroad to U.S. Highway 67, as East Loop Drive
4-92 9-14-  Giving a name to the west frontage road of  U.S. Highway 59 from the Cotton
     1992   Belt Railroad to U.S. Highway 67, as North Bishop Drive
 
TABLE VI:  ZONING CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
15-  6-9-   Zoning newly annexed property as “B” - Central Business District
71   1971
7-72 7-12-  Zoning newly annexed property as “B” - Central Business District
     1972
8-72 10-11- Zoning newly annexed property as “A” Dwelling House District
     1972
9-72 10-11- Zoning newly annexed property as “A” Dwelling House District
     1972
13-  12-20- Zoning newly annexed property as “A” Dwelling House District
72   1972
9-73 6-13-  Zoning newly annexed property as “A” Dwelling House District
     1973
16-  9-10-  Zoning newly annexed property as “A” Dwelling House District
73   1973
17-  10-8-  Zoning newly annexed property as “A” Dwelling House District
73   1973
            Zoning newly annexed land described in Exhibit A as “A”- Dwelling House
19-  10-9-  District, except for that part described in Exhibit B; and newly annexed
73   1973   and existing two tracts of city land described in Exhibit B as Commercial
            for the specific use of Apartments
20-  11-12- Zoning newly annexed property as follows:
73   1973
            a 300-foot wide strip from and along the west boundary line of the property
            as Commercial; and the remainder zoned Commercial for the specific use as a
            Mobile Home District
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
      1-9-   Rezoning a portion of Block No. 112 of the subdivision of the Nancy Dycus H.R.
2-74  1974   Survey, Abstract 145, formerly known as the Foster Addition, less Lot 8 thereof; from
             Residential to Commercial for Retail Establishments (Light Commercial)
             Rezoning two tracts:  0.88 acre, more or less, beginning at an iron pipe for corner
      5-8-   in the east line of E.B. Levee 305.7 acre tract; and 1.10 acres, more or less,
7-74  1974   beginning at an iron pipe for corner at the SW corner of the 52-acre tract conveyed
             by James Breckenridge and wife to C.T. Nantz; from Residential to Commercial for
             Retail Establishments (Light Commercial)
17-74 11-26- Zoning newly annexed property as “A” - Dwelling House District
      1974
3-75  2-12-  Rezoning a part of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, lying north and west of Block 14
      1975   of the city, from Residential to Commercial-Retail Sales
12-75 8-11-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single Family)
      1975
14-75 10-13- Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single Family)
      1975
15-76 6-14-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single Family)
      1976
19-76 8-9-   Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single Family)
      1976
      12-27- Rezoning Lots 1 and 2, Block 12, Greenfield Fourth Addition from “D” Dwelling
23-76 1976   District (Single Family and Duplex) to “MF” Dwelling District (Medium Density
             Residential)
9-77  6-13-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single Family)
      1977
23-77 11-14- Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single Family)
      1977
12-78 7-10-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single Family)
      1978
7-79  4-23-  Rezoning 0.4876 acre of land owned by L.T. Hawks and Moody L. Miller in the Nancy
      1979   Dycus Headright Survey, A-145, from Residential to “LB” Local Business
8-79  4-23-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District (Single Family)
      1979
             Rezoning a tract of 4.5 acres, more or less, out of a 204.235 acre tract conveyed to
16-79 8-13-  Albert F. Rehkopf, Larry L. Phillips, Ethel Phillips and Kelsy Moore, beginning at a
      1979   point in the west ROW line of Burma Road, from “LB” to “MF” Medium Density
             Residential
21-79 10-8-  Rezoning a 22.752 acre tract, part of a 500-acre tract designated as Block 4 of the
      1979   Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, Abstract 145, from “R” Dwelling to “MF” Dwelling
      12-10- Rezoning 2.911 acres, more or less, of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, beginning at
23-79 1979   the NW corner of Lot 9, Block 3 of the Lakeside Country Club First Addition, from
             Residential - Single Family to Commercial District
1-80  1-14-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single family)
      1980
             Rezoning two tracts: 10.355 acres, more or less, beginning at an iron pipe in the SE
             corner of Lot 7, Block 3, Lakeside Country Club Second Addition, being 3264.72 feet
      4-14-  north and 565.58 feet west of the SE corner of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, to
9-80  1980   Planned Development (PD) duplex; and 12.254 acres, more or less, beginning at an iron
             pipe for corner in the west line of a 0.664 acre tract, being the NE corner of Lot 4,
             Block 1 of Lakeside Country Club First Addition, to Planned Development (PD) Local
             Business
17-80 8-25-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single Family)
      1980
1-81  1-26-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single family)
      1981
7-81  7-13-  Rezoning 12.588 acres, part of Lot 5 of the subdivision of the MEP&P Railway Co.
      1981   Survey, A-435, from Residential to Local Business
             Rezoning three tracts owned by Frank L. King and John H. King, being Lots 1 through
      10-12- 3, inclusive and Lot 81 in Block 4 in Runnels City First Addition; Lot 25A and Lot 51
17-81 1981   in Block 10 and Lots 66 through 87, inclusive, in Block 9 in Runnels City First
             Addition; and 1.026 acres, being a portion of Johnny Avenue of Runnels City First
             Addition, to Planned Development - Multi-Family
18-81 10-12- Zoning three newly annexed tracts of land as Planned Development - Multi-Family
      1981
2-83  3-14-  Zoning newly annexed county road ROW as “A” Agricultural
      1983
5-83  4-11-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single Family)
      1983
10-83 5-9-   Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single Family)
      1983
11-83 5-23-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single Family)
      1983
14-83 6-13-  Zoning newly annexed property as Multi-Family Dwelling District
      1983
      6-13-  Rezoning 12.588 acres, more or less, except the north 335 feet thereof, part of Lot 5
16-83 1983   of the subdivision of the MEP&P Railway Company Survey, Abst. 425, to Commercial
             District “C”
30-83 11-14- Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single Family)
      1983
6-84  3-26-  Rezoning property less Lots 1, 2, and 3, Block 2 of Lakeside Country Club Revised
      1984   First Addition, from PD-Local Business to Planned Development PD-Commercial
8-84  4-23-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” - Dwelling District - (Single Family)
      1984
      9-10-  Rezoning 3.304 acres owned by the Bowie County Housing Authority, beginning at the NE
16-84 1984   corner of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, from Planned Development District to
             Planned Development-Duplex Dwelling District
17-84 9-10-  Zoning newly annexed property, Tracts 1 and 2, as “C” Commercial District; and Tract
      1984   3 as “R” Residential (Single Family)
1-85  2-11-  Rezoning Lot 9, Block 3 of Lakeside Country Club, Revised First Addition, to “C”
      1985   Commercial
4-85  2-25-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      1985
5-85  3-11-  Zoning newly annexed 3 tracts of land as:
      1985
             Tracts 1 and 2 are zoned as “LB” Local Business District; and Tract 3 as “PD” Planned
             Development - Residential Dwelling (Single Family)
13-85 6-10-  Zoning newly annexed property as “CF” Community Facilities District
      1985
             Rezoning 2.371 acres, more or less, in the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, beginning at
15-85 6-24-  an iron pipe for corner at the SW corner of Lot 4, Block 2, of Lakeside Country Club
      1985   First Addition, from Planned Development (PD) Local Business to Planned Development
             (PD) Commercial District
18-85 8-12-  Zoning newly annexed property as “C” Commercial District
      1985
1-86  1-13-  Zoning newly annexed property as “CF” Commercial Facilities District
      1986
2-86  2-10-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      1986
10-86 6-23-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      1986
17-86 8-25-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      1986
18-86 8-25-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      1986
      10-27- Rezoning Lots 79 through 81, inclusive, Block 4 in Runnels City First Addition, known
26-86 1986   as the west side of Northwest Drive, from Planned Development Multi-Family to “R”
             Dwelling District (Single Family)
      10-27- Rezoning Lots 10 through 15, inclusive, and 76 through 78, inclusive, Block 4 in
27-86 1986   Runnels City First Addition, known as the west side of Northwest Drive, from Planned
             Development - Multi-Family to “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      2-9-   Rezoning 1.600 acres in Block 2 of Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, beginning at an iron
2-87  1987   pipe for corner in the west line of Block 2, approximately 15 feet south of the
             original NW corner, from Residential District to Local Business District
10-87 4-13-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling  District (Single Family)
      1987
16-87 8-10-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      1987
             Rezoning 0.371 acre in Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, beginning at a point at the
23-87 10-19- intersection of the east line of the 15.34 acre tract conveyed to Ethel Phillips with
      1987   the north ROW line of U.S. Highway 67, from Planned Development District to
             Commercial District
16-88 8-22-  Rezoning 0.699 acre owned by Keaton Truck Lines, Inc. from R-Dwelling Single-Family
      1988   to Commercial
23-88 12-12- Rezoning Lots 1 through 9, inclusive, Block 4 in Runnels City First Addition, to “R”
      1988   Dwelling District (Single Family)
8-89  4-10-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling  District (Single Family)
      1989
9-90  9-10-  Zoning newly annexed 2 tracts:
      1990
             (1) Lots 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, and  84 in Block 8 of Runnels City subdivision, and Lots
             86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, and 95, in Block 8 of Runnels City subdivision;
             zoning as “C” Commercial; and
             (2) Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 in Block 6 of Runnels City subdivision; zoning as
             “R” Dwelling  District (Single Family)
13-91 8-12-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling  District (Single Family)
      1991
             Rezoning 0.663 acre, part of Lots 5 and 6 of the estate of H.R. Runnels in MEP&P
1-93  1-11-  Railway Survey (A-435), beginning at the NW corner of Lot 6 of the partition and
      1993   distribution of the estate, being a concrete ROW marker on the east ROW line of U.S.
             Highway 59 (Loop 151), to Commercial
4-93  3-8-   Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      1993
10-93 9-13-  Rezoning 0.246 acre owned by Michael L. Melton and a part of Lot 112 of Nancy Dycus
      1993   Headright Survey, from Residential to Planned Development - Local Business
             Rezoning 9.877 acres owned by John H. King, being all of Lots 66 through 87,
      6-13-  inclusive; all of Lots 25A through 31A, inclusive, Block 9; Lots 25A through 31A in
8-94  1994   Block 10; all of Lots 25 through 51, Block 10; and all of Johnny Avenue between
             Blocks 9 and 10 in Runnels City First Addition, from Planned Development - Multi-
             Family to “R” Residential (Single Family)
10-94 7-11-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      1994
12-94 7-25-  Rezoning Lots 26 and 27 in Belmont Addition, owned by Bill White, from Residential to
      1994   “PD” Planned Development
      8-8-   Rezoning Lots 17 through 29 and Lots 62 through 74, Block 4, and all of a 50-foot
16-94 1994   street ROW designated as Tracey Avenue lying south and west of the Lots 17 through 29
             in Runnels City First Addition, to “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
8-95  9-11-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      1995
12-95 12-11- Zoning newly annexed 3 tracts as “PD” Planned Development District
      1995
11-96 8-15-  Zoning newly annexed 2 tracts as “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      1996
12-96 8-15-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      1996
6-97  1-14-  Rezoning 3.264 acres from Local Business to Planned Development - Local Business
      1997
7-97  5-12-  Rezoning 1.852 acres from Planned Development - Local Business to Planned Development
      1997   - Commercial
15-97 7-14-  Rezoning Lots 1 through 3 and 32 through 34, Block 2, Lakeside Country Club, known as
      1997   412 Wake Village Road, from Residential to Local Business - Planned Development
7-98  12-8-  Rezoning 4.82 acres, more or less, from Local Business to Local Business - Planned
      1998   Development
      1-12-  Rezoning 3.261 acres, beginning at a point on the west ROW of Wake Village Road, the
1-99  1999   SE corner of a 25.643 acre tract in the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, from Planned
             Development - Local Business to Planned Development - Commercial
3-99  2-23-  Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      1999
3-00  2-8-   Zoning newly annexed property as “R” Dwelling District (Single Family)
      2000
15-00 10-10- Rezoning 39.733 acres from Agricultural to Planned Development - Commercial and
      2000   Residential Dwelling (Single Family)
17-00 10-10- Zoning newly annexed property as Local Business Planned Development
      2000
      8-14-  Zoning 3 tracts of newly annexed property as Agriculture, Residential Dwelling
9-01  2001   (Single Family), Local Business-Planned Development, and Commercial-Planned
             Development, depending on the location of the land
1-02  3-11-  Rezoning 0.551 acre, at the NW corner of Piney and Arizona Streets, from “PD-M”
      2002   Planned Development - Manufacturing to “R-SF” Residential District (Single Family)
      9-12-  Zoning newly annexed property as Agriculture, Residential Dwelling (Single Family),
8-05  2005   Local Business-Planned Development, and Commercial-Planned Development, depending on
             the location of the land
14-06 10-9-  Rezoning 1.862 acres from Residential to Planned Development - Local Business
      2006
1-08  3-10-  Rezoning 5.936 acres from Residential to Planned Development - Local Business
      2008
 
TABLE VII:  ANNEXATIONS AND JURISDICTIONAL AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
5-50 6-8-   Annexing approximately six acres owned by the Macedonia Common School District,
     1950   beginning at a point 2904.5 feet west of the SW corner of the Wake Village tract
2-58 10-20- Annexing two tracts:
     1958
          (1) Lakeside County Club subdivision First Addition, except the lots not
            currently owned by the subdivision, vacated on 1-8-1979; and
            (2) 25.23 acres, more or less, north of the First Addition to the Lakeside
          Country Club subdivision, beginning at a point where the south boundary line of
            Louise Lane intersects the west boundary line of Wake Village Road
11-  6-26-  Annexing Lots 1 through 58, Shellwood Addition, Bowie County
61   1961
12-  6-26-  Annexing Lots 1 through 58, Shellwood Addition, Bowie County
61   1961
13-  6-26-  Annexing Lots 1 through 58, Shellwood Addition, Bowie County
61   1961
2-64 2-4-   Apportioning overlapped areas of extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) between the
     1964   Cities of Wake Village and Texarkana
4-67 12-6-  Annexing property owned by Robert P. Cheatham and Clara Mae Cheatham, Lots 118,
     1967   119 and 120 of Block 8 of Runnels City
6-67 12-6-  Annexing property owned by Robert P. Cheatham and Clara Mae Cheatham, Lots 118,
     1967   119 and 120 of Block 8 of Runnels City
            Annexing property owned by H.N. Harkness, Harry B. Friedman, Sherman A. Kusin,
6-68 12-11- Frank L. King, Sr., Frank L. King, Jr., and John King, in Block or Lot 4 of the
     1968   Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, beginning at a two-inch pipe at a fence corner on
            the west side of a north-south public road, being the SE corner of Block or Lot 4
Res. 12-11- Authorizing amendment to ETJ overlap with the City of Texarkana from 2-4-1964
8-68 1968
1-70 3-25-  Annexing property owned by Alvin Smith and Rubye G. Smith, Lots 146, 147, 148,
     1970   and 149 in Block 8, Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, Runnels City Addition
            Annexing property owned by Frank L. King, Frank L. King, Jr. and John H. King,
3-71 2-10-  part of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, beginning at the NE corner of Lot 12 in
     1971   Block 2 of Runnels City First Addition, being in the west ROW line of Carrol
            Avenue
            Annexing 3.468 acres, more or less, owned by John F.A. Mugno and Edward Page
            Oliver, beginning at a creosote stake marking the NE corner of the 9.95 acre
15-  6-9-   tract conveyed by Helen Power Ramage et al. to Edward B. Levee, Jr. et al., the
71   1971   same being a corner of the Ed B. Levee 305.7 acre tract; and zoning as set forth
            in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 0.196 acre, more or less, owned by John F.A. Mugno and Edward Page
            Oliver, part of 9.95 acre tract conveyed by Helen Power Ramage et al. to Edward
7-72 7-12-  B. Levee, Jr. et al., and beginning at a creosote stake marking the NE corner of
     1972   the 9.95 acre tract, the same being a corner of the Ed B. Levee 305.7 acre tract;
            and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing three tracts of property owned by Michael L. Melton, Belinda Kay Lever
            and Richard F. Lever, being in Block or Lot 4 of the Nancy Dycus Headright
     10-11- Survey; all of Lot or Block 2; and a portion of the ROW of F.M. Highway 989,
8-72 1972   beginning at a two-inch pipe at the fence corner on the west side of a north-
            south public road, being the SE corner of Block or Lot 4 of the Nancy Dycus
            Headright Survey; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
     10-11- Annexing Lots 13, 14, and 15 in Block 9, Runnels City Addition, owned by Harry B.
9-72 1972   Bickle and Imogene A. Bickle; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing all of Lots 31, 32, and 33 in Block 0, Nancy Dycus Headright Survey,
13-  12-20- Runnells City Addition, owned by Gerald D. Marshall and Gayle Marshall; and
72   1972   zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 6.333 acres of property owned by Ed B. Levee, Jr. and Esther W. Levee,
            part of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, beginning at an iron pipe for corner,
9-73 6-13-  2886.94 feet south and 4565.82 feet west of the NE corner of the Nancy Dycus
     1973   Headright Survey, being the most NE corner of Greenfield Third Addition; and
            zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing net 5.80 acres, more or less, owned by Frank. L. King, beginning at an
16-  9-10-  iron pipe for corner at the NW corner of Lot 1, Block 11, Greenfield Fourth
73   1973   Addition; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing Lots 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, and 132 in Block 8 of Runnels City
17-  10-8-  subdivision, owned by Morris S. Barkman and Coralie Barkman; and zoning as set
73   1973   forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing net 6.210 acres, more or less, owned by Frank L. King, Sr, beginning at
19-  10-9-  an iron pipe for corner in the east ROW line of Mockingbird Lane, being the SW
73   1973   corner of Lot 1, Block 8, Greenfield Second Addition, and zoning as described in
            Exhibits A and B as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 41.222 acres, more or less, owned by Arkansas Rock and Gravel Company,
            beginning at an iron pipe 3750.49 feet south 6725.74 feet west of the NE corner
20-  11-12- of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, being the NW corner of a four-acre tract of
73   1973   F.L. King and also the SW corner of Greenfield Addition; and zoning as set forth
            in
            TSO VI
17-  11-26- Annexing Lots 48 to 55, inclusive, in Block 5 of Runnels City subdivision, owned
74   1974   by William F. Farmer; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
12-  8-11-  Annexing property owned by Harry L. Hankins and Dorothy Hankins, described in
75   1975   Exhibit “A” attached to Ord. 12-75; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
14-  10-13- Annexing property owned by Paul D. Morriss, described in Exhibit “A” attached to
75   1975   Ord. 14-75; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing property owned by W.E. Dickson, beginning at an iron pipe for corner at
            the NE corner of Lot 1, Block 14, Greenfield Fifth Addition, being the NE corner
15-  6-14-  of the Greenfield Fifth Addition and also 2,338.17 feet south and 3,582.62 fee
76   1976   west of the NE corner of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey; and zoning as set
            forth in
            TSO VI
19-  8-9-   Annexing Lots 34 through 44 inclusive in Block 9, of Runnels City subdivision,
76   1976   owned by Lee R. Ardeneaux  and Montrose O. Ardeneaux; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 2.414 acres, more or less, owned by W.E. Dickson and Carrie L. Dickson,
            beginning at an iron pipe for corner at the NE corner of Lot 1, Block 14,
9-77 6-13-  Greenfield Fifth Addition, being the NE corner of Greenfield Fifth Addition and
     1977   also the NW corner of Lot 2, Block 14, Greenfield Seventh Addition; and zoning as
            set forth in
            TSO VI
23-  11-14- Annexing property as described in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 23-77, owned by Jack
77   1977   E. Heritage and Alice Heritage; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
12-  7-10-  Annexing property as described in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 12-78, owned by Leon
78   1978   Reynolds and Kathryn Rachel Reynolds; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 9.218 acres, owned by Larry L. Phillips and Albert F. Rehkopf, beginning
     4-23-  at an iron pipe for corner at the NW corner of Lot 7, Block 4, Village North
8-79 1979   First Addition, being south 3093.37 feet and west 6405.87 feet from the NE corner
            of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
     1-14-  Annexing Lots 139, 140, and 141 in Block 8 of Runnels City subdivision, owned by
1-80 1980   Ireline B. Sandlin; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 2.787 acres, more or less, owned by W.E. Dickson and Carrie L. Dickson,
17-  8-25-  beginning at an iron pipe for corner at the SE corner of Lot 1, Block 13, of
80   1980   Greenfield Fifth Addition, being also the SW corner of Lot 2, Block 13 of
            Greenfield Seventh Addition; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing one acre, more or less, owned by Albert Houff, beginning in the center
1-81 1-26-  of the old T. & P. Railroad dump at the NW corner of a 10.62 acre tract; and
     1981   zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
18-  10-12- Annexing 3 tracts of land owned by Frank L. King, Jr. and John H. King, and
81   1981   zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI:
          (1)Lots 4 through 29, inclusive, and 62 through 80, inclusive, in Block 4 in
            Runnels City First Addition;
            (2)Lots 25, 26, 26A, 27, 27A, 28, 28A, 29, 29A, 30, 30A, 31, and 31A, and Lots 32
          through 50, inclusive, in Block 10; and Lots 60 through 65, inclusive, in Block
            9, Runnels City First Addition; and
          (3)1.347 acres, a portion of a 50-foot street designated as Tracey Avenue in
            Runnels City First Addition
            Annexing a 30-foot county road right-of-way adjacent and parallel to the north
     3-14-  line of Lots 4 through 10 and that portion of Lot 11 east of the east ROW line of
2-83 1983   F.M. Road 989 (T&P Dump) of M.D. Tilson’s subdivision, owned by Bowie County; and
            zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
     4-11-  Annexing Lots 10 through 19, inclusive, in Block 2 of Runnels City First
5-83 1983   Addition, owned by E-Z Mart Stores, Inc.; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
10-  5-9-   Annexing Lots 54, 55, and 56 of Block 9, Runnels City, owned by Charles H.
83   1983   Simpson and Carla J. Simpson; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 12.933 acres, more or less, owned by Larry L. Phillips, Ethel Phillips,
            Albert F. Rehkopf, and Kelsey L. Moore, beginning at an iron pipe for corner at
11-  5-23-  the NW corner of Lot 3, Block 5, Village North First Addition, being south
83   1983   3093.37 feet and west 5591.60 feet from the NE corner of Nancy Dycus Headright
            Survey; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 2.136 acres, more or less, owned by Jerry W. Mitchell and Jane Mitchell,
14-  6-13-  beginning at a point 220.4 feet east of the NW corner of Block 5 of the M.D.
83   1983   Tilson subdivision of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey; and zoning as set forth
            in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 8.678 acres, more or less, owned by Albert F. Rehkopf and Larry L.
30-  11-14- Phillips, beginning at an iron pipe for corner at the NW corner of Lot 2, Block
83   1983   3, Village North First Addition; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 18.351 acres, more or less, owned by Larry L. Phillips, Ethel Phillips,
            Albert F. Rehkopf, and Kelsey Moore, beginning at an iron pipe for corner in the
     4-23-  west line of a 305.7 acre tract, being S 00º 53' 00" E, 966.60 feet from the most
8-84 1984   westerly NW corner of the 305.7 acre tract and being south 2530.64 feet and west
            6744.55 feet from the NE corner of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, being also
            the NW corner of the Village North Fourth Addition; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
17-  9-10-  Annexing three tracts, owned by John C. King and Mary Adams, and zoning as set
84   1984   forth in
            TSO VI
            (1)1.927 acres, beginning at 3/8" by 1-1/2" iron for corner, same being a corner
          of the E.B. Levee 305.7 acre tract, being 2298.32 feet and west 989.18 feet from
            the NE corner of the 305.7 acre tract; and
            (2)3.45 acres, more or less, beginning at a point 428.39 feet S 00º 4 feet W from
          a creosote stake for corner, being the NW corner of Block 91 of the subdivision
            of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey; and
            (3)2.82 acres, more or less, beginning at a creosote stake for corner at the NW
          corner of Block 91 of the subdivision of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, being
            also a corner of the E.B. Levee 305.7 acre tract and south 1,869.93 feet and west
            989.64 feet from the NE corner of the 305.7 acre plot
     2-25-  Annexing Lots 51, 52, and 53 in Block 9, Runnels City subdivision, owned by
4-85 1985   Albert Steifer III and Debby S. Steifer; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
     3-11-  Annexing three tracts of land owned by G. R. P. Cattle Company, as described in
5-85 1985   the petition for annexation attached to Ord. 5-85, and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
13-  6-10-  Annexing two tracts owned by John King and Frank King, Jr. as follows, and zoning
85   1985   as set forth in
            TSO VI:
          (1)3.425 acres, more or less, beginning at a point for corner at the NE corner of
            Lot 35 in Block 3 of Runnels City First Addition; and
          (2)a portion of Runnels City First Addition, beginning at a  point for corner at
            the SW corner of Lot 28 in Block 6 of Runnels City First Addition
            Annexing a tract or parcel of land about three miles west of the City of
            Texarkana, owned by Bobby Wright, being one acre of land in the SW corner of a
18-  8-12-  certain tract in the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey, and being in the SW corner of
85   1985   the east 15 acres of a 30-acre tract deeded to Charles Stiger by B.J. McDaniel
            and wife; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
     1-13-  Annexing Lots 43, 44, and 45 in Block 2 of Runnels City First Subdivision, owned
1-86 1986   by James H. Rhoades and Irma Rhoades; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing property owned by Albert F. Rehkopf and Larry L. Phillips, beginning at
     2-10-  an iron pipe for the NW corner, being the NE corner of Lot 6, Block 6, Village
2-86 1986   North Third Addition, and also south 2399.01 feet and west 5261.60 feet from the
            NE corner of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 15.025 acres, more or less, owned by Larry L. Phillips, Albert F.
            Rehkopf, Ethel Phillips, and Kelsey Moore, beginning at an iron pipe for the
10-  6-23-  westerly NW corner, being the NE corner of Lot 5, Block 8, Village North Third
86   1986   Addition, and also south 1378.13 feet and west 5259.95 feet from the NE corner of
            the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
17-  8-25-  Annexing Lots 48, 49, and 50 in Block 9 of Runnels City Subdivision, owned by
86   1986   Albert Steifer III and Debby S. Steifer; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
18-  8-25-  Annexing Lots 19, 20, 21, 28, 29, and 30 in Block 9 of Runnels City Subdivision,
86   1986   owned by Jimmie T. Davis and Wanda J. Davis; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 13.423 acres, more or less, owned by Larry L. Phillips, Albert F.
            Rehkopf, Ethel Phillips, and Kelsey Moore, beginning at an iron pipe for SW
10-  4-13-  corner, being S 58º 57' 37" W, along to the north line of Greenfield Third
87   1987   Addition, being 25.22 feet from the NE corner of Lot 8, Block 5 of that addition,
            and being the SE corner of Village North Sixth Addition; and zoning as set forth
            in
            TSO VI
16-  8-10-  Annexing Lots 59, 60, and 61 of Runnels City, Block 5, owned by Wanda L.
87   1987   Birtcher; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 19.398 acres, owned by Larry L. Phillips,  Albert F. Rehkopf, Ethel
            Phillips, and Kelsey Moore, beginning at an iron pipe for the NW corner, being
8-89 4-10-  the NE corner of Lot 13, Block 10, Village North Seventh Addition and also being
     1989   south 1232.87 feet and west 4599.86 feet from the NE corner of the Nancy Dycus
            Headright Survey; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
     9-10-  Annexing two tracts, owned by Michael R. Shockley, as follows, and zoning as set
9-90 1990   forth in
            TSO VI:
            (1)Lots 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, and  84 in Block 8 of Runnels City subdivision; and
          Lots 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, and 95, in Block 8 of Runnels City
            subdivision; and
          (2)Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 in Block 6 of Runnels City subdivision
13-  8-12-  Annexing Lots 16, 17, and 18 in Block 9 of Runnels City subdivision, owned by
91   1991   Harry B. Bickle and Imogene A. Bickle; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 11.1788 acres, more or less, owned by Larry L. Phillips,  Albert F.
            Rehkopf, Ethel Phillips, and Kelsey Moore, beginning at an iron pipe for corner
     3-8-   at the NE corner of Lot 5, Block 8, Village North Third Addition, being the NW
4-93 1993   corner of Lot 10, Block 8, Village North Seventh Addition, being also south
            1378.13 feet and west 5259.95 feet from the NE corner of the Nancy Dycus
            Headright Survey; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 10.300 acres, more or less, owned by Larry L. Phillips,  Albert F.
            Rehkopf, Ethel Phillips, and Kelsey Moore, beginning at an iron pipe for corner
10-  7-11-  at the NE corner of Village North Tenth Addition, being south 882.87 feet and
94   1994   west 3899.86 feet from the NE corner of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey; and
            zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing 6.143 acres, more or more or less, owned by Larry L. Phillips,  Albert
            F. Rehkopf, Ethel Phillips, and Kelsey Moore, beginning at an iron pipe for
     9-11-  corner at the NE corner of Village North Third Addition, being the SW corner of
8-95 1995   Village North Tenth Addition, and being south 1378.13 feet and west 5259.95 feet
            from the NE corner of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey; and zoning as set forth
            in
            TSO VI
12-  12-11- Annexing three tracts owned by William J. Henry and Vivian M. Henry, as follows,
95   1995   and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI:
            (1)0.359 acre, more or less, a portion of Block 8 of the M.D. Tilson subdivision,
          beginning at a 1/2-inch iron pin set for corner at the NE corner of Block 8,
            being the NE corner of a 2.00 acre tract conveyed by Mildred Lou Murphy to J.
            Fred Murphy, Jr. and wife;
            (2)0.940 acre, more or less; a portion of Block 8 of the M.D. Tilson subdivision,
            beginning at a 1/2-inch iron pin set for corner on the north line of Block 8
          conveyed by J. Fred Murphy, Jr. and Frances H. Murphy to Mildred Lou Murphy,
            being the north line of a five-acre tract and being south 89º 23' 10" west,
            187.69 feet from the NE corner of Block 8; and
            (3)3.465 acres, more or less, a part of the 5-acre tract conveyed by Ben J. Ellis
          to J. Fred Murphy, Jr. and Miss Mildred Lou Murphy, beginning at an iron pipe for
            corner at the NW corner of a 1-2/3 acre tract, being in an existing fence line
11-  8-15-  Annexing two tracts owned by Edward C. Green and Audrey N. Green, as follows, and
96   1996   zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI:
          (1)Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 in Block 4 of Runnels City
            subdivision; and
            (2)0.645 acre, more or less, part of a 279.37 acre tract conveyed by H. Richard
            Runnels to F.L. King, beginning at an iron pipe at the NE corner of Lot 1 in
          Block 4 of Runnels City, being on the south ROW line of Hickerson Avenue; less
            702 square feet, more or less, beginning at an iron pipe at the NE corner of Lot
            1 in Block 4 of Runnels  City, being on the south ROW line of Hickerson Avenue
            Annexing property owned by Sherwin L. Massey and Virginia Louise Massey and
12-  8-15-  Harvey Matthews, as described in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 12-96; and zoning as
96   1996   set forth in
            TSO VI
     5-12-  Authorizing an extraterritorial agreement with the City of Texarkana, TX,
3-98 1998   concerning extraterritorial jurisdiction and future annexation, as described in
            the agreement attached to Ord. 3-98
            Annexing 22.325 acres, more or less, owned by Aven C. Willliamson, beginning at
     2-23-  an iron pin found for corner at the upper NE corner of Village North Eleventh
3-99 1999   Addition, being west 3569.86 feet and south 882.87 feet from the NE corner of the
            Nancy Dycus Headright Survey; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
     2-8-   Annexing property owned by Bonnie Wilson, described in Exhibit A attached to Ord.
3-00 2000   3-00; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
            Annexing property owned by Seldon Madden, located on the corner of Highway 67 and
17-  10-10- Memorial Drive, 0.325 acre, less a 0.0298 tract conveyed to the state on 1-20-
00   2000   2000; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
     8-14-  Annexing three tracts of land at the request of the city as described in Exhibit
9-01 2001   A attached to Ord. 9-01; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI:
          (1)45.232 acres, more or less;
          (2)15.656 acres, more or less; and
          (3)23.899 acres, more or less
     9-12-  Annexing 63.96 acres, more or less, as described in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 8-
8-05 2005   05, at the request of the city; and zoning as set forth in
            TSO VI
Res. 9-12-  Approving a jurisdictional agreement governing the boundaries of the
12-  2005   extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Cities of Wake Village and Nash, Texas, as
05          set forth in Exhibit A attached to Res. 12-05
13-  11-14- Annexing 315.355 acres, more or less, part of the Nancy Dycus Headright Survey,
05   2005   A-145 and Mark Epperson Headright Survey, A-185, beginning at the NW corner of
            Pine Forest First Addition, being in the south line of a 15.884 acre tract
     1-24-  Annexing a tract of land as described in Exhibit C attached to Ord. 1-11 and
1-11 2011   extending the boundary limits of the city so as to include such territory within
            the city limits
11-  11-14- Annexing a tract of land described in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 11-11 and
11   2011   extending the boundary limits of the city so as to include such territory within
            the city limits
Res. 1-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with Wilf and Henderson P.C.,
1-14 2014   for the purpose of conducting the annual audit for the city
Res. 2-10-  Authorizing an agreement with I.T. Works, for the purpose of providing computer
7-14 2014   hardware support for all departments of the city
Res. 2-10-  Mutual aid agreement for fire protection with Red River Army Depot
8-14 2014
Res. 5-12-  Approving and authorizing the Mayor to enter into an inter-local agreement with
10-  2014   the City of Texarkana for spraying for mosquitoes
14
Res. 5-12-  Authorizing an interlocal agreement with Bowie County, Texas, for the purpose of
11-  2014   housing of certain inmates for the city
14
Res. 6-9-   Authorizing agreement with Texas Municipal League for health insurance for city
14-  2014   employees and dependents
14
Res. 9-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a Joint Election Agreement with Bowie County,
20-  2014   Texas for the purpose of conducting the Local Option Election for the sale of
14          alcohol beverages
Res. 10-13- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an Interlocal Agreement with the Region VIII
21-  2014   Educational Service Center for the purpose of making purchases to the city
14
Res. 2-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement with the City of
9-15 2015   Texarkana for fire protection and rescue service
Res. 6-8-   Authorizing an interlocal agreement with Bowie County for the purpose of housing
14-  2015   of certain inmates for the city
15
Res. 6-8-   Authorizing an interlocal agreement with the Texas Municipal League
15-  2015   Intergovernmental Employee Benefits Pool to furnish insurance for the city’s
15          employees and their dependents
Res. 7-13-  Authorizing an interlocal cooperation agreement with Riverbend Water Resources
17-  2015   District
15
Res. 9-14-  Authorizing an interlocal cooperation agreement with the City of Texarkana and
18-  2015   the City of Nash for the purpose of wastewater treatment
15
Res. 2-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with the Texarkana Independent
5-16 2016   School District for the purpose of sharing an election poling place
Res. 3-14-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement with the City of
7-16 2016   Texarkana for spraying for mosquitoes
Res. 5-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a Mutual Aid Agreement for fire protection
9-16 2016   with the Red River Army Depot
Res. 5-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement with Bowie County for
10-  2016   the purpose of housing certain inmates for the city
16
Res. 5-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement with Bowie County for
11-  2016   the purpose of assisting in the repairs/maintenance of roads and rights-of-way
16          for the city
Res. 6-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement with the Texas
14-  2016   Municipal League Intergovernmental Employee Benefits Pool to furnish insurance
16          for the city’s employees and their dependants
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Codes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS CODES
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
11.38                111.05
61.36                111.05
109.32               111.06
109.33               111.07
                     
 
CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Art. 102.0172        36.02
 
ELECTION CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
82.001               30.02
123.032              30.04
123.035              30.04
 
FAMILY CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Ch. 31               131.04
51.03                131.99
51.08                131.99
 
GOVERNMENT CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Ch. 418              34.16
Ch. 552              33.30
552.261              33.30
552.262              33.30
851.001 et seq.      38.50
 
HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
342.006(a)(1)        92.11
342.006(a)(2)        92.11
342.007              92.11;
                     92.30
Art. 481.134         130.16
 
LOCAL GOVERNMENT CODE
Statutory References Code Section
Statutory References Code Section
43.053               150.17
Ch. 53               10.01
54.001               10.99
201.001 et seq.      33.03
211.001 et seq.      32.02
Ch. 212              32.01
214.001 et seq.      151.06
Ch. 245              91.02
 
OCCUPATION CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Ch. 1202             150.16
1202.253             150.16
2001.001 et seq.     94.01
 
PARKS AND WILDLIFE CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
31.055               93.05
 
PENAL CODE
Statutory References Code Section
Statutory References Code Section
8.07                 131.99
Ch. 21               114.04
21.01                114.08
Ch. 22               114.04
Ch. 25               114.04
Ch. 43               114.04
 
REVISED CIVIL STATUTES
 
Statutory References Code Section
Art. 1000            31.02
Art. 1001            31.02
Art. 1200            31.02
Art. 1269j-18        32.03
itle 28, Ch. 5       31.02
 
TAX CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
11.253               35.04
321.210              35.02
321.210(b)           35.02
 
TRANSPORTATION CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
521.001              70.51
Ch. 522              70.35
544.001              70.01
547.604              92.03
 
UTILITIES CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
33.001               52.01
Ch. 101 et seq.      53.35
 
VERNON’S CIVIL STATUTES
 
Statutory References Code Section
Art. 5596a           Charter,
                     Art. XIII Sec. 6
Art. 6243h           38.52
 
WATER CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
16.315               153.01
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
6-94     - -         TSO II
1-97     - -         TSO II
13-44    10-10-1944  36.04
3-46     8-13-1946   36.04
R4-65    8-3-1965    52.30
5-65     9-17-1965   TSO V
5-67     3-7-1967    52.31
2-67     12-6-1967   150.02
R5-68    10-9-1968   TSO II
8-68     12-11-1968  TSO VII
4-69     6-11-1969   TSO II
7-69     8-25-1969   TSO II
5-70     8-5-1970    TSO V
6-71     9-8-1971    TSO V
4-72     3-8-1972    TSO II
8-72     7-12-1972   52.32
10-73    12-10-1973  TSO II
1-74     1-9-1974    TSO II
10-74    11-13-1974  32.16
2-76     1-12-1976   38.07
5-76     2-9-1976    TSO II
14-76    10-11-1976  37.01
–      11-14-1977  38.08
16-78    12-11-1978  30.03
8-79     6-14-1979   38.37
R3-80    2-11-1980   31.21
R4-80    3-10-1980   31.21
R6-80    5-12-1980   38.05
R7-80    6-9-1980    38.05
R11-80   7-28-1980   31.21
R15-80   12-8-1980   TSO III
R1-81    1-26-1981   31.21
R2-81    2-9-1981    TSO II
R8-81    7-27-1981   32.17
R10-81   9-14-1981   TSO II
R16-81   11-16-1981  36.01
R17-81   12-14-1981  150.17
R1-82    2-22-1982   TSO II
R3-82    3-8-1982    150.18
5-82     3-8-1982    38.01;
                     38.21
R6-82    3-8-1982    38.07
R7-82    3-8-1982    TSO IV
R12-82   8-9-1982    TSO II
R13-83   6-27-1983   TSO II
R22-83   9-26-1983   112.08
R3-84    3-12-1984   TSO II
R4-84    3-26-1984   TSO II
R10-84   6-11-1984   38.37
R12-84   6-26-1984   TSO II
R17-84   8-13-1984   TSO III
R20-84   10-8-1984   TSO II
R10-85   8-26-1985   TSO II
14-85    11-4-1985   TSO II
R15-85   11-12-1985  TSO II
R7-86    6-9-1986    35.03
R9-86    6-9-1986    33.31
R12-86   10-13-1986  38.04
R2-87    2-9-1987    TSO II
12-87    10-19-1987  TSO II
10-88    - -1988     TSO II
4-88     1-25-1988   TSO II
7-88     4-11-1988   38.02
15-88    12-12-1988  TSO II
2-89     2-13-1989   31.08
4-89     2-17-1989   TSO II
6-89     6-12-1989   TSO II
9-89     10-9-1989   34.36
1-90     1-5-1990    TSO II
5-90     2-12-1990   51.15;
                     TSO II
4-90     3-12-1990   38.21
7-90     5-7-1990    TSO II
8-90     7-23-1990   TSO II
11-90    11-12-1990  31.04;
                     37.15
12-90    12-20-1990  38.01
5-91     6-10-1991   TSO II
7-91     7-8-1991    38.01
8-91     7-8-1991    38.06
12-91    10-14-1991  TSO II
15-91    11-12-1991  34.02
1-92     1-13-1992   TSO II
7-92     6-8-1992    TSO II
8-92     6-8-1992    38.01
9-92     7-13-1992   38.05
12-92    11-2-1992   38.01
13-92    12-14-1992  38.01
3-93     1-25-1993   TSO II
7-93     4-12-1993   TSO II
9-93     5-10-1993   TSO II
14-93    7-19-1993   TSO II
15-93    7-19-1993   TSO II
16-93    8-9-1993    TSO II
1-94     1-24-1994   TSO II
4-94     4-11-1994   TSO II
5-94     6-13-1994   TSO II
8-94     11-14-1994  TSO III
7-95     6-12-1995   TSO III
8-95     6-26-1995   TSO II
11-95    8-14-1995   TSO III
12-95    9-11-1995   38.01
16-95    12-11-1995  TSO II
2-96     3-11-1996   TSO II
7-96     7-8-1996    TSO II
8-96     7-8-1996    TSO II
9-96     8-15-1996   TSO II
12-96    12-9-1996   TSO II
3-97     3-10-1997   TSO III
7-97     6-9-1997    TSO II
11-97    6-9-1997    38.01
10-97    7-28-1997   30.17
2        4-14-1998   32.03
4-98     6-9-1998    TSO II
5-98     9-8-1998    38.05
7-98     12-8-1998   TSO II
1-99     1-12-1999   34.51
4-99     6-8-1999    TSO II
5-99     9-28-1999   TSO II
–      11-9-1999   34.02
3-00     3-13-2000   TSO II
5-00     6-13-2000   TSO II
8-00     11-13-2000  TSO II
2-01     3-13-2001   TSO II
6-01     6-12-2001   TSO II
7-01     7-10-2001   TSO III
10-01    8-14-2001   TSO II
12-01    10-9-2001   TSO II
4-02     4-8-2002    TSO II
5-02     4-8-2002    TSO IV
6-02     5-13-2002   TSO II
9-02     11-11-2002  TSO II
5-03     - -2003     TSO II
2-03     2-10-2003   TSO II
6-03     6-9-2003    TSO II
8-03     8-11-2003   38.05
10-03    9-8-2003    TSO III
6-04     6-14-2004   TSO II
10-04    8-9-2004    TSO II
11-04    8-9-2004    TSO II
13-04    10-11-2004  TSO II
07-05    6-20-2005   TSO II
12-05    9-12-2005   TSO VII
14-05    10-10-2005  34.37
4-06     2-13-2006   30.04
9-06     5-8-2006    38.53
16-06    8-22-2006   TSO II
3-07     6-11-2007   TSO II
2-08     3-10-2008   TSO II
5-08     4-14-2008   TSO II
6-08     5-12-2008   TSO II
7-08     5-5-2008    TSO II
8-08     8-11-2008   TSO II
5-09     5-11-2009   TSO II
8-09     8-10-2009   TSO II
9-09     10-12-2009  TSO II
2-10     2-8-2010    TSO II
7-10     8-9-2010    TSO II
3-11     4-11-2011   TSO II
6-11     7-11-2011   37.16
8-11     6-13-2011   TSO II
11-11    8-12-2011   TSO II
15-11    12-12-2011  38.01
16-11    12-12-2011  38.10
17-11    12-20-2011  35.04
01-12    1-9-2012    TSO II
02-12    1-9-2012    TSO II
3-12     2-13-2012   TSO II
6-12     2-13-2012   38.01
7-12     2-13-2012   38.01
8-12     3-12-2012   TSO II
9-12     3-12-2012   TSO II
10-12    3-12-2012   TSO II
11-12    5-14-2012   TSO II
17-12    8-27-2012   TSO II
18-12    10-8-2012   TSO II
20-12    12-10-2012  TSO II
1-13     1-14-2013   TSO II
7-13     2-11-2013   TSO II
9-13     4-8-2013    TSO II
10-13    5-13-2013   TSO II
14-13    6-10-2013   TSO II
15-13    6-10-2013   TSO II
16-13    8-12-2013   TSO II
17-13    8-12-2013   38.01
18-13    8-12-2013   38.01
19-13    8-12-2013   38.01
1-14     1-13-2014   TSO II
7-14     2-10-2014   TSO II
8-14     2-10-2014   TSO II
10-14    5-12-2014   TSO II
11-14    5-12-2014   TSO II
14-14    6-9-2014    TSO II
20-14    9-8-2014    TSO II
21-14    10-13-2014  TSO II
1-15     1-12-2015   TSO II
04-15    1-8-2015    TSO II
8-15     2-9-2015    TSO II
9-15     2-9-2015    TSO VII
11-15    4-13-2015   TSO II
14-15    6-8-2015    TSO VII
15-15    6-8-2015    TSO VII
17-15    7-13-2015   TSO VII
18-15    9-14-2015   TSO VII
4-16     1-11-2016   TSO II
5-16     2-9-2016    TSO VII
6-16     2-8-2016    TSO II
7-16     3-14-2016   TSO VII
9-16     5-9-2016    TSO VII
10-16    5-9-2016    TSO VII
11-16    5-9-2016    TSO VII
14-16    6-13-2016   TSO VII
16-16    10-10-2016  TSO II
3-17     1-9-2017    TSO II
4-17     1-9-2017    TSO II
6-17     1-9-2017    TSO II
8-17     2-13-2017   TSO II
10-17    2-13-2017   TSO II
11-17    3-13-2017   TSO II
12-17    3-13-2017   TSO II
14-17    5-8-2017    TSO II
19-17    6-12-2017   TSO II
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2-46     2-12-1946   11.01
7-46     12-10-1946  32.02
1-48     1-13-1948   70.22
2-48     1-13-1948   110.03;
                     110.99
6-48     9-17-1948   70.25
3-49     9-12-1949   38.50
3-50     2-13-1950   32.01
5-50     6-8-1950    TSO VII
8-50     11-13-1950  71.01
2-51     2-14-1951   30.02
3-51     6-11-1951   31.07
4-52     4-30-1952   TSO II
3-54     8-9-1954    30.46
5-54     10-11-1954  92.20;
                     92.99
1-56     2-13-1956   TSO II
2-58     10-20-1958  TSO VII
6-60     10-10-1960  38.50
7434     12-3-1960   TSO VII
11-61    6-26-1961   TSO VII
12-61    6-26-1961   TSO VII
13-61    6-26-1961   TSO VII
2-62     3-6-1962    34.52
1-64     1-14-1964   52.02
2-64     2-4-1964    TSO VII
12-64    2-14-1964   TSO II
5-64     8-11-1964   38.50
8-65     9-7-1965    92.30;
                     92.99
4-67     12-6-1967   TSO VII
6-67     12-6-1967   TSO VII
7-68     12-4-1968   TSO II
6-68     12-11-1968  TSO VII
4-59     4-9-1969    50.01
2-69     4-21-1969   TSO II
10-69    9-10-1969   38.50
                     152.01-
                     152.05;
                     152.15-
11-69    11-17-1969  152.21;
                     152.35-
                     152.39;
                     152.99
1-70     3-25-1970   TSO VII
3-71     2-10-1971   TSO VII
5-71     5-12-1971   30.15;
                     30.16
7-71     5-12-1971   31.01
8-71     5-12-1971   31.02
9-71     5-12-1971   30.45
10-71    5-12-1971   31.03
6-71     6-9-1971    30.17-
                     30.31
15-71    6-9-1971    TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
16-71    6-9-1971    TSO IV
18-71    9-8-1971    38.50
7-72     7-12-1972   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
8-72     10-11-1972  TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
9-72     10-11-1972  TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
11-72    11-1-1972   TSO IV
13-72    12-20-1972  TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
                     91.01-
5-73     5-4-1973    91.08;
                     91.99
6-73     5-9-1973    TSO II
7-73     5-9-1973    Ch. 73, Sch. II
8-73     5-9-1973    70.26;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. I
9-73     6-13-1973   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
12-73    6-13-1973   34.35
13-73    6-13-1973   30.17
16-73    9-10-1973   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
17-73    10-8-1973   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
19-73    10-9-1973   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
20-73    11-12-1973  TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
21-73    12-10-1973  30.17
2-74     1-9-1974    TSO VI
3-74     2-13-1974   Ch. 72 Sch. IV
5-74     3-13-1974   35.15
7-74     5-8-1974    TSO VI
8-74     5-15-1974   TSO II
9-74     6-12-1974   34.35
10-74    6-12-1974   TSO V
11-74    6-12-1974   96.37;
                     96.99
16-74    10-9-1974   30.31
17-74    11-26-1974  TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
18-74    12-11-1974  TSO II
2-75     2-12-1975   TSO II
3-75     2-12-1975   TSO VI
10-75    4-9-1975    155.01
8-75     5-14-1975   30.17
11-75    8-11-1975   Ch. 72 Sch. III
12-75    8-11-1975   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
14-75    8-11-1975   36.01
–      8-14-1975   36.01
13-75    8-14-1975   36.01
–      8-14-1975   36.01
13-75    9-25-1975   155.01
14-75    10-13-1975  TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
15-75    10-13-1975  70.24
2-76     1-12-1976   150.15
5-76     2-9-1976    30.17
6-76     2-9-1976    70.02-
                     70.07
                     111.15-
9-76     3-8-1976    111.19;
                     111.99
10-76    4-26-1976   Ch. 73, Sch. II
15-76    6-14-1976   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
8-76     6-16-1976   TSO II
18-76    8-9-1976    52.15
19-76    8-9-1976    TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
22-76    10-11-1976  Ch. 73, Sch. II
23-76    12-27-1976  TSO VI
3-77     2-14-1977   36.01
5-77     5-9-1977    71.16
15-77    5-24-1977   36.01
9-77     6-13-1977   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
11-77    7-11-1977   Ch. 72, Sch. II;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. IV
14-77    8-1-1977    38.51
15-77    8-8-1977    38.52
16-77    8-8-1977    38.50
17-77    8-8-1977    52.02
22-77    10-25-1977  150.30
23-77    11-14-1977  TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
4-78     3-13-1978   Ch. 73 Sch. II
18-78    4-14-1978   36.01
9-78     6-12-1978   TSO V
10-78    6-12-1978   90.99
                     111.01-
11-78    6-12-1978   111.03;
                     111.99
12-78    7-10-1978   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
9-78     8-14-1978   TSO II
14-78    8-14-1978   35.16
17-78    11-27-1978  TSO V
7-79     4-23-1979   TSO VI
8-79     4-23-1979   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
15-79    8-13-1979   155.01
16-79    8-13-1979   TSO VI
21-79    10-8-1979   TSO VI
23-79    12-10-1979  TSO VI
1-80     1-14-1980   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
2-80     1-14-1980   Ch. 72, Sch. IV
7-80     2-11-1980   TSO IV
9-80     4-14-1980   TSO VI
15-80    8-11-1980   TSO I
16-80    8-11-1980   TSO I
17-80    8-25-1980   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
23-80    12-8-1980   TSO IV
                     95.01-
24-80    12-8-1980   95.12;
                     95.99
1-81     1-26-1981   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
3-81     4-13-1981   51.15;
                     TSO II
7-81     7-13-1981   TSO VI
8-81     8-6-1981    52.15
11-81    9-14-1981   38.50
                     113.01-
                     113.04;
                     113.15-
12-81    9-14-1981   113.27;
                     113.40-
                     113.47;
                     113.99
13-81    9-14-1981   50.02
14-81    9-21-1981   36.16
17-81    10-12-1981  TSO VI
18-81    10-12-1981  TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
20-81    12-14-1981  150.45-
                     150.56
1-82     2-8-1982    71.02;
                     Ch. 73, Sch. II
4-82     5-10-1982   36.03
12-82    7-12-1982   38.50
16-82    9-13-1982   52.02
18-82    9-13-1982   150.31
21-82    10-6-1982   52.15
23-82    10-11-1982  34.35
24-82    10-25-1982  52.15
26-82    11-22-1982  52.15
27-82    11-22-1982  30.01
28-82    11-22-1982  31.01
29-82    12-13-1982  30.01
30-82    12-13-1982  38.50
2-83     3-14-1983   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
3-83     3-14-1983   Ch. 72, Sch. IV
4-83     3-14-1983   30.03
5-83     4-11-1983   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
                     54.01;
                     54.02;
9-83     5-9-1983    54.04–
                     54.08;
                     54.99
10-83    5-9-1983    TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
11-83    5-23-1983   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
14-83    6-13-1983   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
16-83    6-13-1983   TSO VI
                     112.01-
22-83    9-12-1983   112.08;
                     112.99
28-83    10-24-1983  38.50
29-83    10-24-1983  96.01;
                     96.99
30-83    11-14-1983  TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
35-83    12-12-1983  154.01
1-84     1-6-1984    52.15
1-84     2-13-1984   TSO II
4-84     5-12-1984   54.02;
                     54.03
6-84     3-26-1984   TSO VI
8-84     4-23-1984   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
11-84    5-14-1984   TSO II
14-84    8-13-1984   55.21
15-84    8-13-1984   35.15
16-84    9-10-1984   TSO VI
17-84    9-10-1984   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
20-84    10-8-19984  51.15
22-84    11-12-1984  TSO II
23-84    11-12-1984  38.50
1-85     2-11-1985   TSO VI
4-85     2-25-1985   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
5-85     3-11-1985   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
                     51.01-
7-85     4-8-1985    51.07;
                     51.99
9-85     4-8-1985    52.002
11-85    4-8-1985    TSO IV
13-85    6-10-1985   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
15-85    6-24-1985   TSO VI
18-85    8-12-1985   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
21-85    10-14-1985  38.50
27-85    10-14-1985  70.23
1-86     1-13-1986   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
2-86     2-10-1986   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
6-86     3-10-1986   110.01;
                     110.99
8-86     4-28-1986   38.03
10-86    6-23-1986   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
14-86    7-28-1986   30.32
17-86    8-25-1986   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
18-86    8-25-1986   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
22-86    10-13-1986  TSO IV
24-86    10-13-1986  38.50
26-86    10-27-1986  TSO VI
27-86    10-27-1986  TSO VI
2-87     2-9-1987    TSO VI
4-87     2-23-1987   TSO V
                     153.01-
                     153.05;
                     153.15-
9-87     3-9-1987    153.21;
                     153.35-
                     153.38;
                     153.50-
                     153.52
10-87    4-13-1987   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
14-87    7-13-1987   71.15
15-87    7-13-1987   31.06
16-87    8-10-1987   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
17-87    7-13-1981   51.15
21-87    9-14-1987   38.50
22-87    9-14-1987   38.50
23-87    10-19-1987  TSO VI
3-88     1-11-1988   TSO II
6-88     1-25-1988   38.36
9-88     3-14-1988   Ch. 72, Sch. II,
                     Sch. IV
10-88    4-11-1988   31.05
12-88    5-9-1988    31.20
15-88    8-22-1988   Ch. 72, Sch. I
16-88    8-22-1988   TSO VI
17-88    8-22-1988   Ch. 73, Sch. I
18-88    8-22-1988   96.15;
                     96.99
20-88    9-12-1988   38.50
23-88    12-12-1988  TSO VI
26-88    12-12-1988  Ch. 72, Sch. IV
4-89     3-13-1989   Ch. 72, Sch. IV
8-89     4-10-1989   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
                     114.01-
6-89     5-8-1989    114.21;
                     114.99
11-89    7-10-1989   34.50-
                     34.52
12-89    7-24-1989   55.21
13-89    8-28-1989   38.50
20-89    12-11-1989  TSO V
3-90     6-11-1990   Ch. 73, Sch. II
4-90     6-11-1990   Ch. 73, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 73, Sch. II
8-90     8-13-1990   38.50
9-90     9-10-1990   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
15-90    11-12-1990  33.01-
                     33.13
16-90    11-12-1990  31.04
13-91    8-12-1991   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
15-91    9-9-1991    38.50
16-91    9-9-1991    38.50
14-91    10-9-1991   TSO II
19-91    11-12-1991  34.15-
                     34.23
20-91    12-9-1991   55.21
4-92     9-14-1992   TSO V
6-92     9-14-1992   55.21
1-93     1-11-1993   TSO VI
4-93     3-8-1993    TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
10-93    9-13-1993   TSO VI
12-93    9-13-1993   55.21
13-93    9-13-1993   110.02;
                     TSO II
                     111.35-
1-94     1-10-1994   111.42;
                     111.99
4-94     1-24-1994   110.02
7-94     6-13-1994   11.03
8-94     6-13-1994   TSO VI
10-94    7-11-1994   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
12-94    7-25-1994   TSO VI
13-94    7-25-1994   30.31;
                     33.30
16-94    8-8-1994    TSO VI
21-94    9-12-1994   151.01-
                     151.06
22-94    9-12-1994   Ch. 72, Sch. IV
23-94    9-12-1994   38.50
                     53.01;
2-95     5-8-1995    53.15-
                     53.24;
                     Ch. 53, App. A
4-95     6-12-1995   TSO IV
8-95     9-11-1995   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
12-95    12-11-1995  TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
1-96     2-12-1996   70.20;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. V
4-96     4-8-1996    96.16
                     91.30-
8-96     6-10-1996   91.32;
                     91.99
11-96    8-15-1996   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
12-96    8-15-1996   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
                     54.20;
21-96    12-9-1996   54.21;
                     54.23-
                     54.25
6-97     1-14-1997   TSO VI
7-97     5-12-1997   TSO VI
8-97     5-12-1997   11.02
11-97    6-9-1997    38.01
15-97    7-14-1997   TSO VI
16-97    7-28-1997   TSO II
17-97    7-28-1997   Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     96.30-
18-97    7-28-1997   96.36;
                     96.99
                     152.01-
                     152.05;
                     152.15-
21-97    9-23-1997   152.21;
                     152.35-
                     152.39;
                     152.99
3-98     5-12-1998   TSO II;
                     TSO VII
7-98     12-8-1998   TSO VI
8-98     12-8-1998   38.04
1-99     1-12-1999   TSO VI
3-99     2-23-1999   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
11-99    9-14-1999   36.02
12-99    9-28-1999   35.02
2-00     1-11-2000   TSO IV
3-00     2-8-2000    TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
4-00     2-8-2000    TSO IV
6-00     4-11-2000   TSO IV
10-00    7-11-2000   155.01
15-00    10-10-2000  TSO VI
16-00    10-10-2000  70.35
17-00    10-10-2000  TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
21-00    12-12-2000  55.21
3-01     3-13-2001   55.20
5-01     4-10-2001   130.01
9-01     8-14-2001   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
16-01    11-12-2001  151.01-
                     151.06
02-02    2-12-2002   38.20
1-02     3-11-2002   TSO VI
3-02     6-10-2002   TSO II
7-02     6-10-2002   30.17
                     90.25–
7-02     7-8-2002    90.29;
                     90.99
9-02     9-9-2002    53.35
15-02    12-17-2002  38.35
5-03     8-11-2003   96.15;
                     96.99
8-03     10-13-2003  32.15;
                     32.99
11-03    11-10-2003  52.01
2-04     3-8-2004    35.15
8-04     8-9-2004    155.01
                     90.11–
13-04    10-11-2004  90.13;
                     90.99
14-03    12-8-2004   55.21
15-03    12-8-2004   54.24;
                     54.25
                     92.01;
                     92.02;
                     92.04-
2-05     2-15-2005   92.07;
                     92.09;
                     92.10;
                     92.15;
                     92.99
                     93.01-
3-05     2-15-2005   93.06;
                     93.09-
                     93.11
4-05     2-15-2005   10.99
5-05     6-20-2005   70.21;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. II
8-05     9-12-2005   TSO VI;
                     TSO VII
11-05    9-12-2005   34.01
13-05    11-14-2005  TSO VII
2-06     2-13-2006   34.53
3-06     2-13-2006   TSO II
4-06     2-13-2006   TSO II
                     94.01-
5-06     4-10-2006   94.15;
                     94.99
10-06    7-17-2006   155.01
11-06    7-17-2006   150.16;
                     150.99
12-06    8-14-2006   36.15
15-06    9-11-2006   35.01
14-06    10-9-2006   TSO VI
                     130.15-
1-07     1-8-2007    130.20;
                     130.99
                     91.15-
3-07     3-12-2007   91.19;
                     91.99
                     131.01-
7-07     4-9-2007    131.06;
                     131.99
9-07     8-23-2007   TSO II
10-07    9-10-2007   35.01
12-07    11-12-2007  35.04
1-08     3-10-2008   TSO VI
4-08     4-14-2008   TSO IV
5-08     4-14-2008   54.21–
                     54.25
9-08     9-8-2008    35.01
                     70.50;
3-09     4-13-2009   70.51;
                     70.99
                     70.20;
4-09     5-11-2009   70.99;
                     Ch.72 Sch.V
5-09     5-11-2009   TSO III
07-09    7-13-2009   Adopting Ordinance
08-09    7-13-2009   37.50–
                     37.56
                     70.20;
10-09    9-14-2009   70.99;
                     Ch.72 Sch.V
11-09    9-14-2009   35.01
12-09    10-12-2009  36.05
13-09    10-12-2009  37.30–
                     37.36
                     90.01–
                     90.10;
14-09    10-12-2009  90.40–
                     90.47;
                     90.60–
                     90.64
16-09    12-14-2009  54.21–
                     54.25
17-09    12-14-2009  55.21
1-10     2-8-2010    38.09
2-10     3-1-2010    TSO II
3-10     3-8-2010    154.01
                     131.01–
7-10     5-10-2010   131.06;
                     131.99
9-10     5-10-2010   54.40–
                     54.49
10-10    5-10-2010   151.03;
                     151.05
                     153.01–
                     153.05;
                     153.15–
                     153.21;
12-10    6-14-2010   153.35–
                     153.38;
                     153.50–
                     153.53;
                     153.99
1-11     1-24-2011   TSO VII
02-11    2-14-2011   38.50
6-11     8-8-2011    70.20;
                     Ch. 72 Sch. V
7-11     8-8-2011    31.09
8-11     9-12-2011   35.01
10-11    11-14-2011  55.21
11-11    11-14-2011  TSO VII
1-12     2-13-2012   Ch. 72 Sch. V
2-12     3-12-2012   54.20–
                     54.25
4-12     3-12-2012   96.02,
                     96.99
5-12     5-14-2012   150.01
6-12     5-14-2012   151.04
13-12    11-12-2012  38.01
14-12    11-12-2012  31.10
15-12    11-12-2012  38.01
2-13     1-14-2013   31.09
                     92.08 ;
03-13    1-14-2013   92.11–
                     92.15
4-13     1-14-2013   93.07
9-13     5-13-2013   TSO IV
12-13    6-10-2013   34.54–
                     34.62
13-13    8-12-2013   31.09
14-13    8-12-2013   92.11
15-13    8-12-2013   93.07
                     93.05–
17-13    11-12-2013  93.08 ;
                     93.99
18-13    10-14-2013  31.09
19-13    12-9-2013   55.21
1-14     2-10-2014   38.01
2-14     4-14-2014   130.02;
                     130.99
                     131.01 –
4-14     12-8-2014   131.06;
                     131.99
4-15     7-13-2015   70.27
07-15    10-12-2015  Ch. 72, Sch. III
                     91.20;
08-15    10-12-2015  91.21;
                     91.99
10-15    12-14-2015  150.01
1-16     1-11-2016   TSO IV
                     111.04–
4-16     6-13-2016   111.09,
                     111.99
5-16     6-13-2016   TSO IV
8-16     10-10-2016  Ch. 72, Sch. IV
4-17     6-12-2017   31.21
                     131.01–
8-17     11-13-2017  131.06;
                     131.99
                     153.01–
                     153.05;
                     153.15–
                     153.21;
9-17     12-11-2017  153.35–
                     153.38;
                     153.50–
                     153.54;
                     153.99
                    
 
