VILLAGE OF ALDA, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ord. 295, passed 7-2-2019
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION;
GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Village of Alda
Code of Ordinances, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This Alda Village Code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY.  Hall County.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      OATH.  Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON.  Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY.  The Village of Alda.
      VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES or GOVERNING BODY.  The legislative body of the
Village of Alda.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Board
Chairperson and Village Board of Trustees or of the context of the same
ordinance.
   (A)   ANDorOR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature
pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
are repealed, except that nothing shall affect any rights acquired under,
actions involving, or fines, penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred
pursuant to those ordinances prior to repeal.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including
ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect
unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
      (1)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other
public places;
      (2)   Annexing or detaching territory;
      (3)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to
public use;
      (4)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
      (5)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
      (6)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
      (7)   Appropriating money;
      (8)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
      (9)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   (B)   All ordinances codified in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly.
§ 10.15  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:  (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
      copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17  LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the Village Board of Trustees.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this village code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
CHAPTER 11:  VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Seal
§ 11.01  SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription: “Seal, The
Village of Alda, Hall County, Nebraska.” The Municipal Clerk shall affix an
impression of the said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits,
ordinances and all other official papers issued by order of the governing body
and counter-signed by the Municipal Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE BOARD AND OFFICIALS
      
31.   ORDINANCES
      
32.   ELECTIONS
      
33.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
      
34.   INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
      
35.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
36.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
CHAPTER 30:  VILLAGE BOARD AND OFFICIALS
Section
Elected Officials
   
30.001   Chairperson; selection and duties
   
30.002   Board; Organization
   
30.003   Powers and duties
   
30.004   Vacancy
Appointed Officials
   
30.015   General authority
   
30.016   Merger of offices
   
30.017   Clerk-Treasurer position created
   
30.018   Municipal Clerk
   
30.019   Municipal Treasurer
   
30.020   Municipal Attorney
   
30.021   Village Marshal
   
30.022   Municipal police officer
   
30.023   Fire Chief
   
30.024   Special engineer
   
30.025   Municipal Utilities Superintendent
Bonds and Oath
   
30.040   Form
   
30.041   Municipal officials
Meetings
   
30.055   Defined
   
30.056   Public body defined
   
30.057   Public meetings
   
30.058   Closed sessions
   
30.059   Emergency meetings
   
30.060   Minutes
   
30.061   Votes
   
30.062   Notice to news media
   
30.063   Public participation
   
30.064   Governing body
   
30.065   Order of business
   
30.066   Parliamentary procedure
   
30.067   Change in office
   
30.068   Reorganizational meeting
   
30.069   Regular meeting
   
30.070   Special meetings
Compensation
   
30.085   Municipal officials
   
30.086   Conflict of interest
   
30.087   Salaries of officials
   
30.088   Exemption from conflict of interest requirements
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.001  CHAIRPERSON; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Village Board Chairperson shall be selected at the first regular meeting
of the Board of Trustees in December by the Board of Trustees from its own
membership. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of
Trustees. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Board of Trustees shall elect
one of its own body to occupy the position temporarily who shall hold the title
of Chairperson pro tempore of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson and the
Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same powers and privileges as other
members of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall cause the ordinances of
the Board of Trustees to be printed and published for the information of the
inhabitants. The Chairperson shall also perform all duties of his or her office
in accordance with the laws of the state, and the ordinances of the
municipality. The qualifications for the Chairperson shall be the same general
qualifications that apply to the members of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)  (Ord. 186, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202 through 17-210
§ 30.002  BOARD; ORGANIZATION.
   The Board of Trustees shall consist of five members. Any person who is a
citizen of the United States, a resident of the municipality at the time of his
or her election, and a registered voter may be eligible to be elected to the
Board of Trustees. Every Trustee so elected and so qualified shall hold his or
her office for a term of four years; provided, a Trustee’s term shall expire,
and the office will become vacant upon a change of residence from the
municipality. The Board of Trustees shall, before entering upon the duties of
their office, take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States,
and the Constitution of the state, and faithfully and impartially discharge the
duties of their office. All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and meet
at the first regular meeting of the Board in December, organize and appoint the
municipal officers required by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)  (Ord. 187, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202 through 17-204
§ 30.003  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances to prevent and
remove nuisances; to prevent, restrain and suppress gambling, and disorderly
houses; to license and regulate amusements; to establish police protection; to
prevent the spread of contagious diseases; to regulate business; to erect,
repair, construct and regulate the public ways and property; to maintain good
government, public welfare and domestic tranquillity; and to enforce all
ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants, or other persons for
violation thereof not exceeding $100 for any one offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207
§ 30.004  VACANCY.
   (A)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in an elected office of the municipality,
notice of said vacancy shall be presented in writing to the Board of Trustees
at a regular meeting and said notice shall appear as a part of the minutes of
such meeting.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall at once give public notice of the vacancy
by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality or by posting in three public places in the municipality the
office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall within two weeks after
the regular meeting at which such notice has been presented, or upon the death
of the incumbent, call a special meeting of the Board at which time the
Chairperson shall submit the name of a qualified elector to fill the vacancy
for the balance of the unexpired term.
   (D)   No officer who is removed at a recall election or resigns after the
initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   (E)   Upon a majority vote of approval by the Board the vacancy shall be
filled. If a majority vote is not reached, the nomination shall be rejected and
the Chairperson shall at the next regular meeting submit the name of another
qualified elector. If the vote on the nominee fails to carry by majority vote,
the Chairperson shall continue at such meeting to submit the names of qualified
electors and the Board shall continue to vote upon such nominations until the
vacancy is filled.
   (F)   The Chairperson of the Board shall cast his or her vote only in case
of a tie vote of the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All Board members shall cast a ballot for or against each nominee.
   (H)   The Chairperson and Board may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a
village office as provided above in this section, call a special municipal
election to fill such vacancy.
   (I)   If there is a vacancy in the offices of a majority of the members of
the Village Board, there shall be a special municipal election conducted by the
Secretary of State to fill such vacancies.
(Prior Code, § 1-104)  (Ord. 108, passed 12-4-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-1406
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.015  GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   The Village Board may appoint a Municipal Clerk, a Municipal Treasurer, a
Municipal Utilities Superintendent, and a Municipal Marshal. It shall also
appoint a Board of Health consisting of three members: The Chairperson of the
Village Board shall be the Chairperson of the Board of Health, the Marshal
shall be the Secretary and Quarantine Officer of the Board of Health, and an
additional member who shall be a physician, when a physician is residing
permanently in the municipality, and when there is no physician present, then
such other person as the Village Board may select. It shall also appoint such
additional officials, and employees as they may determine the municipality
needs. All such appointees shall hold office for one year, unless sooner
removed by the Chairperson of the Board by, and with, the advice and consent of
the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 30.016  MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The governing body of the municipality may, in its discretion, by ordinance
combine and merge any elective or appointive office or employment, except
Village Trustee, with any other elective, or appointive offices so that one or
more of such offices may be held by the officer or employee at the same time,
except that Trustees may perform and upon Board approval, receive compensation
for seasonal or emergency work so long as there is no conflict of interest for
such compensation. The offices so merged and combined shall always be construed
to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to
a consolidation of official duties only; and provided further, the salary of
the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in excess of the maximum
amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so combined. For purposes
of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be
considered officers.
(Prior Code, § 1-202)  (Ord. 112, passed 12-4-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-209.02
§ 30.017  CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   (A)   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are
hereby combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the
governing body by §
30.016.
   (B)   The office so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate, and the effect of the combination, or merger, shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)
§ 30.018  MUNICIPAL CLERK.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall attend the meetings of the governing body,
and keep a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He or she shall
keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the municipality and when any
bonds are sold, purchased, paid or canceled, said record shall show the fact.
He or she shall make, at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business
of the municipality transacted through his or her office for the year. That
record shall describe particularly the bonds issued, and sold during the year,
and the terms of the sale with each, and every item, and expense thereof. He or
she shall file all official bonds after the same shall have been properly
executed, and approved. He or she shall make the proper certificate of passage
which shall be attached to original copies of all bond ordinances hereafter
enacted by the governing body.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall issue, and sign all licenses, permits and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law, and required by the municipal
ordinances. He or she shall collect all occupation taxes, and license money
except where some other municipal officer is specifically charged with that
duty. He or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the
municipality, and the purpose for which they have been issued.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other
documents of the municipality kept, and preserved in his or her office to be
taken therefrom, except by such officers of the municipality as may be entitled
to the use of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor. He or
she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including a record of all
licenses issued by him or her in a blank book with a proper index. He or she
shall include as part of his or her records all petitions under which the
governing body shall order public work to be done at the expense of the
property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions, and
ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date, and hour of
filing upon every paper, or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference, and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient
for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate, and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign and attest all warrants ordered
for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is payable.
At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the amounts
appropriated to the various funds, and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any citizen, official or
other person from examining any public records at all reasonable times.
   (D)   The Municipal Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and
resolutions under his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her
signature. He or she shall also deliver to officers, employees and committees
all resolutions, and communications which are directed at said officers,
employees or committees. With the seal of the municipality, he or she shall
duly attest the Chairperson’s signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers
required to be attested to when ordered to do so by the governing body.
      (1)   Within 30 days after any meeting of the governing body, the
Municipal Clerk shall prepare, and publish the official proceedings of the
governing body in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the municipality,
and which was duly designated as such by the governing body. Said publication
shall set forth a statement of the proceedings thereof and shall also include
the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim, and the name of the
claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll claims may be
included as one item.
      (2)   Between July 15 and August 15 of each year, the employee job titles
and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries corresponding to such job
titles shall be published. Each job title published shall be descriptive and
indicative of the duties and functions of the position. The charge for such
publication shall not exceed the rates provided by the statutes of the state.
Said publication shall be charged against the General Fund. He or she shall
then keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all notices required to be
published, or posted by the Municipal Clerk by order of the governing body, or
under the ordinances of the municipality. To each of the file copies of said
notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the said
notices are required to be published, or the Municipal Clerk’s certificate
under seal where the same are required to be posted only.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving
districts, and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the municipality, and in the event that the said claim is
disallowed in part, or in whole, the Municipal Clerk shall notify such
claimant, his or her agent, or attorney by letter within five days after such
disallowance, and the Municipal Clerk shall then prepare transcripts on appeals
of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies
of any record in his or her office as set by resolution of the governing body.
He or she shall destroy municipal records under the direction of the State
Records Board pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1220; provided, the
governing body shall not have the authority to destroy the minutes of the
Municipal Clerk, the permanent ordinances, and resolution books, or any other
records classified as permanent by the State Records Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-204)  (Ord. 173, passed 4-6-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-605, 19-1102, 19-1104, 84-1201 through
84-1220, 84-712
§ 30.019  MUNICIPAL TREASURER.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging to
the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Village Treasurer shall, at
the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to
the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the
date of such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall
also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Village Treasurer
fails to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month,
or by a later date established by the governing body, the Chairperson of the
Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the Trustees may use this
failure as cause to remove the Treasurer from office.
   (B)   (1)   All warrants upon the Village Treasurer shall be paid in the
order of their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-
2201 through 77-2215.
      (2)   The Village Treasurer shall keep a warrant register in the form
required by Neb. RS 77-2202.
      (3)   The Village Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums
which shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the
source from which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and
columns, show the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and
whether the same was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer
shall deliver one of the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain
the other in his or her office.
      (4)   The Village Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the
several columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts
forward, and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by
the Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall
close the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the
excess.
   (C)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within
60 days following the close of the municipal fiscal year a statement of the
receipts and expenditures by funds of the village for the preceding fiscal
year.
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
   (D)   The Village Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village
separate and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall invest and
collect all money owned by or owed to the village as directed by the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall maintain depository evidence that all municipal money
is, in the name of the village, in a solvent and going financial institution of
a type authorized by state law for deposit of municipal funds. He or she shall
cancel all bonds, coupons, warrants and other evidences of debt against the
village, whenever paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face
thereof, “Paid by the Village Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or
stamped thereon. He or she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special
assessments to the several owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a
monthly report as to the collection of delinquent taxes.
(Prior Code, § 1-205)  (Ord. 247, passed 9-5-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-606, 19-1101, 19-1103, 77-2201, 77-2209,
77-2210
§ 30.020  MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Municipal Attorney is the municipality’s legal advisor, and as
such he or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits on behalf of the
municipality. When requested by the governing body, he or she shall attend
meetings of the governing body, and shall advise any municipal official in all
matters of law in which the interests of the municipality may be involved. He
or she shall draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts and other writings as may
be required in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or she
shall examine all bonds, contracts and documents on which the governing body
will be required to act, and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all
such instruments, and documents as to whether, or not, the document is in
legal, and proper form. He or she shall prepare complaints, attend and
prosecute violations of the municipal ordinances when directed to do so by the
governing body. Without direction, he or she shall appear, and prosecute all
cases for violation of the municipal ordinances that have been appealed to, and
are pending in any higher court. He or she shall also examine, when requested
to do so by the governing body, the ordinance records, and advise, and assist
the Municipal Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural
step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that they will be
valid, and subsisting local laws in so far, as their passage, and approval are
concerned.
   (B)   The governing body shall have the right to compensate the Municipal
Attorney for legal services on such terms as the governing body and the
Municipal Attorney may agree, and to employ any additional legal assistance as
may be necessary out of the funds of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-610
§ 30.021  VILLAGE MARSHAL.
   The Village Marshal shall be the Chief of Police, and shall direct the
police work of the municipality and shall be responsible for the maintenance of
law and order. He or she shall act as Health Inspector, and Building Inspector,
except in the event the municipality appoints another person. He or she shall
file the necessary complaints in cases arising out of violations of municipal
ordinances, and shall make all necessary reports required by the municipal
ordinances, or the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-213
§ 30.022  MUNICIPAL POLICE OFFICER.
   The municipal police, whether regular, or special shall have the power to
arrest all offenders against the laws of the state, or the municipality, by day
or by night, and keep the said offenders in the municipal jail, or some other
place to prevent their escape until trial can be held before the proper
official of the state, or the municipality. They shall have full power, and
authority to call on any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing
public duties, and failure, neglect or refusal to render such assistance shall
be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine. Every municipal
police officer shall be expected to be conversant, and knowledgeable with the
municipal and state laws and no law enforcement official shall have any
interest in any establishment having a liquor license. Municipal police
officers shall have the duty to file such complaints and reports as may be
required by the municipal ordinances, and the laws of the state. Any municipal
police officer who shall willfully fail, neglect or refuse to make an arrest,
or who purposely, and willfully fails to make a complaint after an arrest is
made shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be
fined. It shall be unlawful for the governing body to retain any municipal
police officer in that position after he or she shall have been duly convicted
of the willful violation of any law of the United States of America, the state,
or any ordinance of the municipality, except minor traffic violations. It shall
be the duty of every municipal police officer making a lawful arrest to search
all persons in the presence of some other person, whenever possible, and shall
carefully keep, and produce to the proper judicial official upon the trial
everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All personal effects so
taken from prisoners aforesaid shall be restored to them upon their release.
Suitable uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the municipal police by the
municipality. Any member who shall lose or destroy the same shall be required
to pay the replacement costs, and in the event that any member shall leave the
force, he or she shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the Police
Chief. The governing body may from time to time provide the municipal police
with such uniforms, equipment and transportation as may be essential in the
performance of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-210)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-213
§ 30.023  FIRE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He or she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the
prevention of fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable
substances; the installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire
extinguishing equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of
all premises requiring adequate fire escapes. He or she shall within two days
investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of fires arising within his or
her jurisdiction. He or she shall, on or before April 1 and October 1 of each
year, cause the Secretary to file with the Municipal Clerk, and the Clerk of
the District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all members in good
standing in their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions
provided by law. He or she shall have the power during the time of a fire, and
for a period of 36 hours thereafter to arrest any suspected arsonist, or any
person for hindering the department’s efforts, conducting himself or herself in
a noisy and disorderly manner, or who shall refuse to obey any lawful order by
the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The Fire Chief, or his or her assistant
in charge of operations at a fire may command the services of any person
present at any fire in extinguishing the same or in the removal, and protection
of property. Failure to obey such an order shall be a misdemeanor punishable by
a fine. The Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours
into buildings, and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the
purpose of examining the same for fire hazards, and related dangers.
(Prior Code, § 1-211)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 35-102, 35-108, 81-506, 81-512
§ 30.024  SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The governing body may employ a special engineer to make or assist the
Municipal Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey or other work.
   (B)   The special engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and all other work done for the municipality. He or she shall, when
directed by the governing body, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles
and maps as may be necessary in the judgment of the governing body. He or she
shall, upon request of the governing body, make estimates of the costs of labor
and material which may be done or furnished by contract with the municipality,
and make all surveys, estimates and calculations necessary for the
establishment of grades, bridges, building of culverts, sewers, electric light
system, curbing and gutters, and the improvement of streets and erection and
repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as the governing body
may require.
   (C)   All records of the special engineer shall be public records which
shall belong to the municipality, and shall be turned over to his or her
successor.
(Prior Code, § 1-212)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568, 17-568.01, 17-919, 18-3301
§ 30.025  MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there
is more than one municipal utility, and the governing body determines that it
is in the best interest of the municipality to appoint one official to have the
immediate control over all the said municipal utilities and municipal streets.
The Utilities Superintendent may be removed at any time by the Mayor, a two-
thirds vote of the governing body. Any vacancy occurring in the said office by
death, resignation or removal may be filled in the manner hereinbefore provided
for the appointment of all municipal officials.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent’s duties over the following departments
shall be as stated herein.
      (1)   Water Department. He or she shall have general supervision and
control over the municipal water system, and shall be primarily responsible for
its economic operation and prudent management. Included in the said water
system shall be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery, and appliances
used in connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the
municipality. All actions, decisions and procedures of the Utilities
Superintendent shall be subject to the general directives and control of the
governing body. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the general control and
supervisory authority over all employees of the Water System which the
governing body may from time to time hire to operate and maintain the said
system. Unless some other official is specifically designated, he or she shall
collect all money received by the municipality on account of the said system of
waterworks, and shall faithfully account for, and pay over to the Municipal
Treasurer all such money collected in the name of the municipality and receive
a receipt from the Municipal Treasurer for the depository evidence of his or
her faithful discharge of this duty. This receipt shall then be filed with the
Municipal Clerk, and the second copy shall be kept by the Superintendent. He or
she shall make a detailed report to the governing body at least once every six
months, of the condition of the said water system, of all mains, pipes,
hydrants, reservoirs and machinery and such improvements, repairs and
extensions thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall show the
amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six
months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs or extensions of
the said waterworks system except upon the recommendation of the
Superintendent. The Utilities Superintendent shall provide a bond conditioned
upon the faithful discharge of his or her duties which shall amount to not less
than the amount set by resolution of the governing body and on file in the
office of the Municipal Clerk. He or she shall perform such additional duties
as may be prescribed by the governing body.
      (2)   Sewer Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
immediate control, and supervision over all the employees, and property that
make up the municipal sewer system, subject to the general control, and
directives of the governing body. He or she shall at least every six months,
make a detailed report to the governing body on the condition of the sewer
system, and shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs,
extensions, additions and additional employees as he or she may believe are
needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such
other duties as the governing body may delegate to him or her. He or she shall
issue permits for all connections to the municipal sewer system, and inspect
and supervise all repairs made to the said system.
      (3)   Street Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall, subject to
the orders, and directives of the governing body, have general charge,
direction and control of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts and
bridges of the municipality, and shall perform such other duties as the
governing body may require. It shall be his or her responsibility to see that
gutters and drains therein function properly, and that the same are kept in
good repair. He or she shall, at the request of the governing body make a
detailed report to the governing body on the condition of the streets,
sidewalks, culverts, alleys and bridges of the municipality, and shall direct
their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions and
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed to maintain a
satisfactory street system in the municipality along with an estimate of the
cost thereof. He or she shall issue such permits, and assume such other duties
as the governing body may direct.
(Prior Code, § 1-213)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-214, 17-541, 17-543
BONDS AND OATH
§ 30.040  FORM.
   Official bonds of the municipality shall be in form, joint and several, and
shall be made payable to the municipality in such penalty as the governing body
may set by resolution; provided, the penalty amount on any bond shall not fall
below the legal minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each
particular official. All official bonds of the municipal officials shall be
executed by the principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient
sureties who shall be freeholders of the county, or by the official as
principal and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company; provided no
municipal official, while still in his or her official term of office, shall be
accepted as surety on any other official’s bond, contractor’s bond, license
bond or appeal bond under any circumstances. Only companies that are legally
authorized to transact business in the state shall be eligible for suretyship
on the bond of an official of the municipality. All said bonds shall obligate
the principal, and sureties for the faithful discharge of all duties required
by law of such principal, and shall inure to the benefit of the municipality
and any persons who may be injured by a breach of the conditions of such bonds.
No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval of the
governing body, and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the said instrument
by the Mayor and Municipal Clerk pursuant to the said approval of the governing
body. The premium on any official bond required to be given may be paid out of
the General Fund, or other proper municipal fund, upon a resolution to that
effect by the governing body at the beginning of any municipal year. All
official bonds, meeting the conditions herein, shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk for his or her official records, and it shall be the duty of
the Municipal Clerk to furnish a certified copy of any bond so filed upon the
payment of a fee which shall be set by resolution of the governing body. In the
event that the sureties on the official bond of any officer of the
municipality, in the opinion of the governing body, become  insufficient, the
governing body may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the said
officer may give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. In the event
that the officer should fail, refuse or neglect to give a new bond, or
additional sureties to the satisfaction, and approval of the governing body
then the office shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect, become vacant, and
it shall be the duty of the governing body to appoint a competent, and
qualified person to fill the said office. Any official who is re-elected to
office shall be required to file a new bond after each election.
(Prior Code, § 1-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 11-103 through 11-118, 17-604
§ 30.041  MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   All officials of the municipality, whether elected or appointed, except when
a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      I ______________________ do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, and without
mental reservation, or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of __________________________,
according to law, and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate, nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force, or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I
will not advocate, nor become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this
State by force or violence. So help me God.”
(Prior Code, § 1-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 11-101
MEETINGS
§ 30.055  DEFINED.
   MEETINGS, as used in this subchapter, means all regular, special or called
meetings, formal or informal, of a public body for the purposes of briefing,
discussion of public business, formation of tentative policy, or the taking of
any action.
(Prior Code, § 1-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409(2)
§ 30.056  PUBLIC BODY DEFINED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC BODY.
         (a)   The governing body of the municipality;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by
Constitution, statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless
a quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless such
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Prior Code, § 1-502)  (Ord. 174, passed 4-6-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409(1)
§ 30.057  PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   All public meetings as defined by law shall be held in a municipal
public building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings
shall be held in the public building in which the governing body usually holds
such meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate
some other public building or other specified place.
   (B)   The advance publicized notice of all public convened meetings shall be
simultaneously transmitted to all members of the governing body and to the
public by a method designated by the governing body or by the Chairperson if
the governing body has not designated a method. Such notice shall contain the
time and specific place for each meeting and either an enumeration of the
agenda subjects known at the time of the notice, or a statement that such an
agenda kept continually current shall be readily available for public
inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be
enlarged later than 24 hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting.
The governing body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items
of an emergency nature only, at such public meetings. The minutes of the
Municipal Clerk shall include the record of the manner and advance time by
which the advance publicized notice was given, a statement of how the
availability of an agenda of the then known subjects was communicated, the time
and specific place of the meetings, and the names of each member of the
governing body present or absent at each convened meeting. The minutes of the
governing body shall be a public record open to inspection by the public upon
request at any reasonable time at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Any
official action on any question or motion duly moved and seconded shall be
taken only by roll call vote of the governing body in open session.
   (D)   The record of the Municipal Clerk shall show how each member voted, or
that the member was absent and did not vote.
(Prior Code, § 1-503)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411, 84-1413
§ 30.058  CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual and if such individual has not requested a
public meeting.
   (B)   Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such
reasons as:
      (1)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
      (2)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or devices;
      (3)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
      (4)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for discussion
of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (D)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session, and the time when the closed session commenced and
concluded shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding such a
closed session shall restrict its consideration to matters during the closed
portions to only those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the
closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any
formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal action shall
mean a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a
decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or ordinance or
formation of a position or policy.
   (E)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for: the protection of the public interest; or the prevention of needless
injury to the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled
only by a majority vote of the members of the public body. Such challenge and
its disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a
subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this chapter. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the provisions of this chapter. The provisions of this chapter
shall not apply to chance meetings, or to attendance at or travel to
conventions or workshops of members of a public body at which there is no
meeting of the body then intentionally convened and there is no vote or other
action taken regarding any matter over which the public body has supervision,
control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Prior Code, § 1-504)  (Ord. 175, passed 4-6-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1410
§ 30.059  EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable
advance public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the
minutes and any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency. Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunication equipment.
   (B)   The provisions of §
30.062 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
   (C)   Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of
the emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made
available to the public by no later than the end of the next regular business
day.
(Prior Code, § 1-505)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 30.060  MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and substance of all matters discussed. The
minutes shall also include a record of the manner and time by which the advance
publicized notice was given and a statement of how the availability of the
agenda of the then-known subjects was communicated.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
at the office of the Village Clerk during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days, or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the village may have an additional ten working days if the employee
responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or
emergency.
(Prior Code, § 1-506)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412, 84-1413
§ 30.061  VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by the
municipality utilizing an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the governing body to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-507)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-616, 84-1413
§ 30.062  NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Municipal Clerk, Secretary or other designee of each public body shall
maintain a list of the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall
make reasonable efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and
place of each meeting, and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-508)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 30.063  PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the public shall have the
right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies and all or
any part of a meeting of a public body except for closed meetings called
pursuant to §
30.058 may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for any public body to
make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation
at all meetings. No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting. The body may require
any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify himself or
herself. No public body shall for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this chapter hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too small to
accommodate the anticipated audience. No public body shall be deemed in
violation of this section if it holds its meeting in its traditional meeting
place which is located in this state. No public body shall hold a meeting
outside the state. The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable
effort to accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony
presented at the meeting. Public bodies shall make available at the meeting,
for examination and copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all
reproducible written material to be discussed at an open meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-509)  (Ord. 122, passed 11-5-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412
§ 30.064  GOVERNING BODY.
   The meetings of the Village Board shall be held in the Village Hall. Regular
meetings shall be held on the first Tuesday of each month at the hour of 7:00
p.m. Special meetings may be called by the Board Chairperson, or by a majority
of the Village Board, the object of which shall be submitted to the Village
Board members in writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the Municipal Clerk. On filing
the call for a special meeting the Municipal Clerk shall notify the Village
Board of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a
special meeting need not be given to a member of the Village Board who is known
to be out of the state, or physically unable to be present. A majority of the
members of the Village Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the
attendance of the absent members; provided, that on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend. At the hour appointed for the meeting, the
Municipal Clerk shall proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether
a quorum is present. If a quorum is present the Village Board shall be called
to order by the Board Chairperson. In the absence of the Board Chairperson from
any meeting of the Board of Trustees, the Board shall have the power to appoint
a Chairperson pro tempore, who shall exercise and have the powers and perform
the same duties as the regular Village Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 1-510)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204, 17-205, 17-210
§ 30.065  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   All meetings of the governing body shall be open to the public.
   (B)   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting,
the members of the governing body, the Municipal Clerk, the Chairperson, and
such other municipal officials that may be required shall take their regular
stations in the meeting place, and the business of the municipality shall be
taken up for consideration, and disposition in the following order:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading and approval of the minutes of the previous meeting;
      (3)   Consideration of petitions and other communications;
      (4)   Reports of officers, boards and committees;
      (5)   Unfinished business of the preceding meeting;
      (6)   Introduction of ordinances and resolutions;
      (7)   Final passage of ordinances;
      (8)   Miscellaneous business; and
      (9)   New business.
(Prior Code, § 1-511)
§ 30.066  PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   The Chairperson shall preserve order during meetings of the governing body
and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the governing
body. When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the
point is decided. When the Chairperson is putting the question, no person shall
leave the meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking shall rise
from his or her seat and address himself or herself to the presiding officer
and while speaking shall confine himself or herself to the question. When two
or more persons rise at once, the Chairperson shall recognize the one who spoke
first. All resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing before being
acted upon, if requested by the Municipal Clerk, or any member of the governing
body. Every member of the governing body who is present when a question is
voted upon, shall cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority of the
governing body present. No motion shall be put or debated unless seconded. When
seconded, it shall be stated by the Chairperson before being debatable. In all
cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the minutes, the name of the
member of the governing body making the motion, or resolution shall be entered
also. After each vote, the “Yeas” and “Nays” shall be taken, and entered in the
minutes upon the request of any member of the governing body. Before the vote
is actually taken, any resolution, motion or proposed ordinance may be
withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor thereof with the consent of the
member of the governing body seconding the said resolution, motion or
ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum, or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but such motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table, and to
adjourn. Each of the said motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the
rules of the governing body for meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds vote
of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are not made by these
rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the governing body
shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
(Prior Code, § 1-512)
§ 30.067  CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall meet at the regular meeting of
the Board in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and
outgoing members of the Board of Trustees shall present their reports, and upon
the outgoing Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall
surrender their offices to the incoming Trustees, and the outgoing officers
shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all property,
records, papers and moneys belonging to the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-513)  (Ord. 188, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204
§ 30.068  REORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   The newly elected Board of Trustees shall convene at the regular place of
meeting at the first regular meeting of the Board in each election year
immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize themselves
for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the meeting to
order. The Board shall then proceed to examine the credentials of its members
and other elective officers of the municipality to see that each has been duly
and properly elected and to see that such oaths and bonds have been given as
are required. After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly
qualified, the Board shall then elect one of its own body who shall be styled
as Chairperson of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall then nominate
his or her candidates for appointive offices and said officers shall hold
office until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The Chairperson
shall then proceed with the regular order of business. It is hereby made the
duty of each and every member of the Board or of its successors in office and
of each officer hereafter elected to any office, to qualify prior to the first
regular meeting of the Board in December following his or her election.
Immediately upon the assembly of the newly elected Board upon the first regular
meeting in December following the election, each officer elected at the general
election shall take possession of his or her office. Each appointive officer
who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing the required bond,
approved by the Board of Trustees, in the office of the Municipal Clerk within
two weeks from the date of his or her said appointment; provided, on said bond
shall be endorsed the same oath as required of a Trustee. Failure to qualify by
elective or appointive officers within the time and manner provided in this
section shall and does in itself create a vacancy in the office to which said
person failing to qualify shall have been elected or appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-514)  (Ord. 189, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204
§ 30.069  REGULAR MEETING.
   (A)   The meetings of the governing body shall be held in the meeting place
of the municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the first Tuesday of
each month at the hour of 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   At all meetings of the Board of Trustees, a majority of the Board
shall constitute a quorum to do business.
(Prior Code, § 1-515)  (Ord. 123, passed 11-5-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204, 17-205, 17-210
§ 30.070  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson, or by three members
of the Board of Trustees, the object of which shall be submitted to the Board
in writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal by the Municipal Clerk. On filing the call for a
special meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall notify the members of the Board of
Trustees of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a
special meeting need not be given to a member of the Board known to be out of
the state, or physically unable to be present. A majority of the members of the
Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business,
but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of
the absent members. Whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members
shall be sent for and compelled to attend.
   (B)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall
proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present.
If a quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson,
if present, or if absent, by the President of the Board. In the absence of both
the Chairperson and the President of the Board, the members of the Board of
Trustees shall elect a President pro tempore. All ordinances passed at any
special meeting shall comply with procedures set forth in
Chapter 31.
(Prior Code, § 1-516)  (Ord. 123, passed 11-15-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204, 17-205
COMPENSATION
§ 30.085  MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality shall
not be increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have
been elected except when there has been a merger of offices: provided, the
compensation of the members of the governing body, a board or commission may be
increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member whether
or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different times.
   (B)   No elected official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she
resigns and desires to be rehired during the unexpired term of office. He or
she may be rehired after the term of office during which he or she resigned at
a greater salary.
   (C)   All salaries shall be set by ordinance of the governing body and will
be available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-901)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-209.02, 17-612
§ 30.086  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest;
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the municipality which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected municipal official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body, and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child: Has a business association with
the business involved in the contract; or will receive a direct pecuniary fee
or commission as a result of the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on matters of granting the contract, making payments
pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the contract,
or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the number of
members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract would
prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the issue,
then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who has no business association with the business involved
in the contract, or will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a
result of the contract, shall not be deemed to have an interest within the
meaning of this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (G)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contract covered by this section.
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)(1)(e) herein about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
   (K)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Prior Code, § 1-902)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.01, 49-14,103.02, 49-14,103.03,
49-14,103.05
     49-14,103.06, 49-1408
§ 30.087  SALARIES OF OFFICIALS.
   The salaries of the elected and appointed officials of the municipality are
hereby fixed as follows: Trustees: $250 per year, plus $15 per meeting if in
attendance.
(Prior Code, § 1-903)
§ 30.088  EXEMPTION FROM CONFLICT OF INTEREST REQUIREMENTS.
   All contracts, not exceeding the sum of $100 per contract, in which any
officer of the village, as defined in §
30.086, has an interest, shall be exempt from the requirements of §
30.086.
(Prior Code, § 1-904)  (Ord. 129, passed 12-3-1985)
CHAPTER 31:  ORDINANCES
Section
   
31.01   Grant of power
   
31.02   Introduction
   
31.03   Resolutions and motions
   
31.04   Style
   
31.05   Title
   
31.06   Passage
   
31.07   Publication or posting
   
31.08   Certificate of publication or posting
   
31.09   Emergency ordinances
   
31.10   Amendments and revisions
§ 31.01  GRANT OF POWER.
   The governing body shall have the responsibility of making all ordinances,
by-laws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of
the state, as may be necessary and proper for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the municipality and its trade, commerce and
security.
(Prior Code, § 1-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 31.02  INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the governing body in either of
the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a Board member may, in the
presence and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of
Trustees, read aloud the substance of his or her proposed ordinance and file a
copy of the same with the Municipal Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a Board member may present
his or her proposed ordinance to the Clerk who in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud the
substance of the same and shall file the same for future consideration.
(Prior Code, § 1-602)
§ 31.03  RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the Board of Trustees. The issue raised by said
resolutions or motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of
parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees. A majority
vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any
resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
(Prior Code, § 1-603)
§ 31.04  STYLE.
   The style of all municipal ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Alda, Nebraska:”
(Prior Code, § 1-604)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 31.05  TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
(Prior Code, § 1-605)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 31.06  PASSAGE.
   Ordinances, resolutions or orders for the appropriation of money shall
require for their passage the concurrence of the majority of the members of the
governing body. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by
the title on three different days. This requirement may be suspended by three-
fourths vote of the Board of Trustees, in such case said ordinance may be read
by title or number and then moved for final passage. Three-fourths of the Board
of Trustees may require any ordinance to be read in full before final passage
under either process.
(Prior Code, § 1-606)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 31.07  PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall be published one time within 15
days after they are passed in:
   (A)   Some newspaper published in the municipality or if no paper is
published in the municipality, then by posting a written or printed copy
thereof in each of three public places in the municipality; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form.
(Prior Code, § 1-607)  (Ord. 135, passed 10-7-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 31.08  CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the seal of the municipality from
the Municipal Clerk showing that the said ordinance was passed and approved,
and when, and in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom, and
where the same was posted.
(Prior Code, § 1-608)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 31.09  EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other impending
danger, failure of a public utility, or other emergency requiring its immediate
operation, such ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of the
Chairperson, and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the municipality. Such emergency notice shall recite the emergency
and be passed by a three-fourths vote of the governing body, and entered upon
the Municipal Clerk’s minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-609)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 31.10  AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended, and
the ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1-610)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 32:  ELECTIONS
Section
   
32.01   Election of officers; certification
   
32.02   Term of office
   
32.03   Tie votes
   
32.04   General election; preparation of ballot
   
32.05   Special
   
32.06   Joint, special
   
32.07   Filing fee
   
32.08   Petition candidates
   
32.09   Caucus candidates
   
32.10   Officials
   
32.11   Officials oath
   
32.12   Voter qualifications
   
32.13   Board of Trustees
   
32.14   Ballots
   
32.15   Certificate of election
   
32.16   Inability to assume office
   
32.17   Recall procedure
   
32.18   General municipal
   
32.19   Special election notice
   
32.20   General election notice
   
32.21   Officials appearance
   
32.22   Recount of ballots
   
32.23   Board of Trustees; terms; qualifications
   
32.24   Exit polls
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01  ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   All municipal elections involving the election of officers shall be
held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the statewide
general election.
   (B)   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the governing body
shall certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the
County Clerk, the name of the municipality, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by
election and length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a
registered voter for each office.
(Prior Code, § 1-701)  (Ord. 190, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202, 32-404(2), 32-556
§ 32.02  TERM OF OFFICE.
   All elected officers of the municipality shall serve a term of four years
and until their successors are elected and have qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-702)
§ 32.03  TIE VOTES.
   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the Municipal Clerk shall notify such candidates to appear at
his or her office on a given day and hour to determine the same by lot before
the canvassing board, and the certificate of nomination or election shall be
given accordingly. Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail.
(Prior Code, § 1-704)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202
§ 32.04  GENERAL ELECTION; PREPARATION OF BALLOT.
   (A)   When more than one person becomes a candidate by filing, petition or
write-in procedures for the same position in the primary, the Municipal Clerk,
in preparing the official ballot for the general election shall place thereon
the names of the persons who received the greatest number of votes in the
primary, but in no event shall the names on the general election ballot be more
than twice the number of vacancies to be filled at the general election.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall place the names of the candidates on the
general election ballot in the direct order according to the number of votes
received at the primary election. If no primary election was held, the name of
the candidates shall be placed upon the general election ballot in the order of
their filing.
(Prior Code, § 1-705)
§ 32.05  SPECIAL.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at
least 50 days prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election shall be
subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots
shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the
other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County
Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the
election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the County Canvassing
Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election.
(Prior Code, § 1-706)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-405, 32-559
§ 32.06  JOINT, SPECIAL.
   (A)   In lieu of submitting a matter or issue at a separate special
municipal election, the municipality may submit such matter or issue at a
statewide general or primary election or at a scheduled county election or may
request the county to conduct a special election.
   (B)   Such matter or issue must be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the
County Clerk or Election Commissioner at least 50 days prior to the election.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of such matter other
than that required to be given of the statewide or county election issues.
(Prior Code, § 1-706.01)  (Ord. 114, passed 12-4-1984)
§ 32.07  FILING FEE.
   Prior to the filing of any nomination papers, there shall be paid to the
Municipal Treasurer a filing fee which shall amount to 1% of the annual salary
for the office for which the candidate will file; provided, there shall be no
filing fee for any candidate filing for an office in which a per diem is paid
rather than a salary, or an office for which there is a salary of less than
$500 per year. No nominating papers shall be filed until the proper Municipal
Treasurer’s receipt, showing the payment of the filing fee, shall be presented
to the election officer with whom the nomination papers are to be filed.
(Prior Code, § 1-707)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-513
§ 32.08  PETITION CANDIDATES.
   Candidates for any municipal office in the municipality may be nominated by
petition. Petitions shall contain signatures of registered voters totaling not
less than 10% of the total votes received by the candidate receiving the
highest number of votes in the municipality or ward at the preceding general
election in which officers were last elected to such office. They shall be
accompanied by a treasurer’s receipt for the filing fees for the office being
sought. All petitions shall provide a space at least two and one-half inches
long for written signatures, a space at least two inches long for printed
names, and sufficient space for any additional information which may be
required. Lines on such petitions shall not be less than one-fourth inch apart.
Petitions may be designed in such a manner that lines for signatures and other
information run the length of the page rather than the width. Petition signers
and petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS  32-713.
Petitions must be filed at least 60 days prior to the state primary.
(Prior Code, § 1-708)  (Ord. 114, passed 12-4-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-504, 32-513, 32-535, 32-713
§ 32.09  CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   The governing body of the municipality may, by ordinance call a caucus for
the purpose of nominating candidates for offices to be filled in the village
election. Such caucus shall be held at least ten days prior to the filing
deadline for such election. Notice of such caucus must be published in one
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, at least once in each of
two consecutive weeks prior to said caucus. The Municipal Clerk shall notify
the person so nominated of his or her nomination and such notification shall
take place not less than five days after the said caucus. A candidate so
nominated shall not have his or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not
more than ten days after the holding of such caucus, he or she shall have filed
with the Municipal Clerk a written statement accepting the nomination of the
caucus and shall have paid the filing fee, if any, for the office for which he
or she was nominated.
(Prior Code, § 1-709)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-601.01 through 17-603
§ 32.10  OFFICIALS.
   The Municipal Clerk shall, at least 15 days prior to the municipal election,
appoint three judges and two clerks of election in each precinct in the
municipality, to be known as the Receiving Board. In precincts where more than
100 votes were cast for Governor or President in the last general election, the
Municipal Clerk shall, in the same manner, appoint two additional judges and
two additional clerks to be known as the Election Counting Board. In precincts
where there were not 100 votes cast for Governor or President in the last
general election, the Receiving Board shall act as the Counting Board and shall
count the ballots after the polls are closed and make return thereof in the
same manner provided as in the case of Counting Boards. In precincts having a
Counting Board, the Board shall commence its duties at a given time specified
by the Municipal Clerk, at which time it shall proceed with the counting. If
the judges of election or the Counting Board cannot agree as to the legality of
the vote to be counted, then the Clerk of election serving on the Board shall
have the same powers as the judges of election in determining the legality of
such votes. The Municipal Clerk shall, at the time of appointing the Receiving
Board, designate one of the appointees as messenger, whose duty it shall be to
receive from the Municipal Clerk the ballots, and other supplies necessary for
holding the election in the voting unit of which he or she is the judge or
clerk. At the time of appointing the Counting Board, the Municipal Clerk shall
designate one of the appointees as a messenger to return the ballots and other
supplies to the Municipal Clerk as soon as possible after the votes are
counted. The ballots and other supplies for the election shall be delivered by
the messengers to the polling places in their respective precincts at least one
hour before the time provided by law for opening the polls. No person shall be
eligible for serving on any Receiving or Counting Board who is a candidate for
office at such election. Each appointee shall be of good character, approved
integrity, well informed, able to read, write and speak the English language,
reside in the precinct in which he or she is to serve, be entitled to vote in
the election precinct involved; and hold office for a term of two years or
until judges and clerks of election are appointed for the next municipal
election. The Municipal Clerk shall keep a written record of such appointments
which record must be made at the time of appointment, and which shall be
considered part of the public records of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 1-710)
§ 32.11  OFFICIALS OATH.
   Previous to any votes being received, the judges and clerks of election
shall severally take an oath or affirmation according to the form authorized by
state law. If there is no judge present at the opening of the polls, it shall
be lawful for the judges of election to administer the oath to each other and
the clerks of election. The person administering such oath shall cause an entry
to be made thereof and affixed to each poll book.
(Prior Code, § 1-711)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 11-101.01
§ 32.12  VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   ELECTORS shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the state, except school elections; provided, no person shall be
qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a resident of the
state and shall have been properly registered with the election official of the
county.
(Prior Code, § 1-712)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-602, 32-102
§ 32.13  BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   Board of Trustee members shall be elected from the municipality at large
unless the residents of the municipality have voted to elect its Board members
by wards. Board members shall serve for a term of four years and shall be a
resident and qualified elector. If the election of Board members takes place by
wards, each nominee for Board member shall be a resident and qualified elector
of the ward for which he or she is a candidate, and only residents of that ward
may sign the candidates’ nomination petitions.
(Prior Code, § 1-713)
§ 32.14  BALLOTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to provide printed ballots
for each municipal election, including special ballots, thereof, whenever any
measure, proposition or issue is submitted to a vote of the electors, and upon
each ballot shall be printed the name of every candidate whose nomination has
been properly certified by caucus, or who has been properly nominated by
petition.
   (B)   The separate ballot for any measure, proposition or issue submitted to
a vote of the electors shall state the proposition submitted in clear and
concise language.
(Prior Code, § 1-714)
§ 32.15  CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.
   After the canvass of the vote at the municipal election, the Municipal Clerk
shall prepare a certificate of election for each person whom the Canvassing
Board has declared to have received the highest vote, and in the form as nearly
as possible prescribed by state law, which shall be signed by the Mayor under
the seal of the municipality, and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk. The
said certificate shall then be delivered to the persons so elected.
(Prior Code, § 1-715)
§ 32.16  INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   In any general election, where the person who received the highest number of
votes is ineligible, disqualified, deceased or for any other reason is unable
to assume the office for which he or she was a candidate, and the electorate
had reasonable notice of such disability at the time of the election, the
candidate in such election who received the next highest number of votes shall
be declared elected, and shall be entitled to the certificate of election;
provided, that any candidate so declared elected received not less than 35% of
the total number of votes cast for such office in the election. If any of the
qualifications of this section are not met by the candidate to be declared
elected, or reasonable notice of the winner’s ineligibility is not available to
the voters, a vacancy in such office shall be declared to exist at the time of
commencement of the term and shall be filled as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-716)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-537
§ 32.17  RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any or all of the elected officials of the municipality may be removed
from office by the registered voters of the municipality. Petition papers, to
do such, shall be procured from and filed with the Municipal Clerk, who shall
keep a sufficient number of such blank petition papers on file for
distribution. An affidavit to procure such papers shall be made by one or more
registered voters and filed with the Municipal Clerk, stating the name and
office of the officer or officers sought to be removed. The Clerk, upon issuing
any petition paper, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her office,
the name of the registered voter or voters to whom issued, the date of such
issuance, and the number of papers issued and shall certify on the papers the
name of the registered voter or voters to whom the papers were issued and the
date they were issued.
   (B)   Circulators of such petitions shall comply will all requirements of
the statutes of the state. Such petition demanding that recall be submitted to
the registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to
at least 35% of the total votes cast at the last general municipal election,
except for an office where more than one candidate is chosen, in which case the
petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at least 35%
of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes for such
office in the last general election. If officers are elected by ward, only
registered voters of that officer’s ward may sign a recall petition or vote at
the recall election.
   (C)   All petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature verification
as one instrument within 30 days of issuance of the original petition papers.
Within ten days after the filing of the petition, the Clerk shall ascertain
whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number of registered
voters and shall attach to the petition a certificate showing whether any
signatures need to be corrected in order to comply with the requirements of
this section and state statutes. If the Clerk finds incorrect signatures, he or
she shall promptly notify the person filing the petition that the petition may
be cured at any time within ten days after the giving of such notice by the
filing of a supplementary petition, with the corrected signatures, on
additional petition papers issued and filed as provided for the original
petition. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing of the
petition and no signatures may be removed unless the Clerk receives an
affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be removed. The
Clerk shall, within five days after any correction, examine the corrected
petition and attach a certificate as in the case of the original petition. If
the certificate shows the corrected petition to be insufficient or if no
correction was made, the Clerk shall file the petition in his or her office
without prejudice to the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
   (D)   If the petition or corrected petition is found to be sufficient, the
Clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination and shall notify the officer whose removal is sought. If the
officer does not resign within five days after the notice, the Clerk shall
submit, within ten days after the five-day period has elapsed, the original
petition and supplement, together with his or her certificates, to the
governing body. Upon receipt of such petition and certificate, the governing
body shall order an election to be held not less than 30 nor more than 45 days
after the five-day period, except that if any other election is to be held in
that district within 90 days of the five-day period the governing body may
provide for the holding of the removal election on the same day.
   (E)   No recall petition shall be filed against members of the governing
body within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or her
from office or within six months from the end of his or her term of office.
(Prior Code, § 1-717)  (Ord. 114, passed 12-4-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-1401 through 32-1408
§ 32.18  GENERAL MUNICIPAL.
   The general municipal election shall be held on the first Tuesday in April
in each even numbered year. The polls shall be opened in such locations as may
be designated by the governing body by resolution, and shall be kept open
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., and no later.
(Prior Code, § 1-718)
§ 32.19  SPECIAL ELECTION NOTICE.
   No less than five days nor more than ten days, prior to any special
municipal election, the Municipal Clerk shall prepare and cause to be published
once in a newspaper that is in or of general circulation in the municipality,
but if no newspaper is published in or is of general circulation in the
municipality, then by posting in each of three public places in the
municipality, a notice containing the proclamation concerning the said special
election. The notice shall be in the form prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-719)
§ 32.20  GENERAL ELECTION NOTICE.
   No less than ten days prior to any general municipal election, the Municipal
Clerk shall prepare a notice to be published in a newspaper that is in, or of
general circulation in the municipality, but if there is no newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality, then by posting the said notice in
each of three public places. The notice shall follow the form prescribed by
law.
(Prior Code, § 1-720)
§ 32.21  OFFICIALS APPEARANCE.
   The Municipal Clerk shall, within three days after the appointment of judges
and clerks of election, notify each of them of his or her appointment by mail
and order them to appear at their respective polling places at least one-half
hour prior to the hour fixed for the opening of the polls on the day fixed for
the election. If any member of the Election Board should fail to appear at the
hour appointed for the opening of the polls, the Chairperson of the Board shall
elect as a member of such Board to serve in his or her place an elector from
the same precinct.
(Prior Code, § 1-721)  Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.22  RECOUNT OF BALLOTS.
   The losing candidate for any office at the municipal election may request a
recount of the ballots cast when the official canvass of such votes cast
reveals that there is a difference of 25 votes or less between the total cast
for the winner and the loser. Such recount shall be made if the losing
candidate files a written request therefor with the Municipal Clerk within
three days following the completion of the official canvass.
(Prior Code, § 1-722)
§ 32.23  BOARD OF TRUSTEES; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected from the
municipality at large unless the registered voters of the municipality have
voted to elect its Board members by wards.
   (B)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected at the
statewide general election as provided in Neb. RS 17-202, and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in such section, the term of each Trustee shall
be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village, and is a registered voter.
(Prior Code, § 1-723)  (Ord. 191, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202, 17-203, 32-532, 32-554
§ 32.24  EXIT POLLS.
   No person shall conduct any exit poll, public opinion poll or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place room or, if inside the
polling place building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
(Prior Code, § 1-724)  (Ord. 124, passed 11-5-1985)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-1525
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person ordered to serve by the Municipal Clerk, or when elected
by the other members of the Election Board to fill a vacancy, fails, refuses or
neglects to serve, unless excused for good and sufficient reason, such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not less than $10 nor more than $100, and costs of prosecution. The Municipal
Clerk is authorized to file a criminal complaint against any such person
failing to appear.
(Prior Code, § 1-721)
CHAPTER 33:  FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Fiscal year
   
33.02   Budget statement; filing
   
33.03   Budget hearing
   
33.04   Budget filing
   
33.05   Budget procedure
   
33.06   Appropriations
   
33.07   General property tax
   
33.08   Expenditures
   
33.09   Contract
   
33.10   Annual audit; financial statements
   
33.11   Claims
   
33.12   Warrants
   
33.13   Transfer of funds
   
33.14   Special Assessment Fund
   
33.15   Sinking funds
   
33.16   General Fund
   
33.17   Deposit of funds
   
33.18   Investment of funds
   
33.19   Bond issues
Specific Fees, Taxes
   
33.30   Natural gas rate filing fee
   
33.31   Subdivision, zoning or planning fee schedule
Cross-reference:
   Elections, see
Chapter 32
   Ordinances, see
Chapter 31
   Police and Fire Departments, see
Chapter 36
   Village Organizations, see
Chapter 35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality and any public utility of the
municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30 except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-
2801 through 18-2808.
(Prior Code, § 1-801)  (Ord. 192, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-701
§ 33.02  BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING.
   (A)   The governing body shall, not later than August 1 of each year on
forms prescribed and furnished by the State Auditor, prepare in writing and
file with the Municipal Clerk a proposed budget statement containing the
following:
      (1)   For the immediate two prior fiscal years, the revenue from all
sources, other than revenue received from taxation, allocated to each of the
several funds and separately stated as to each such source, and for each fund:
The unencumbered cash balance of such fund at the beginning and end of the
year; the amount received by taxation allocated to each fund; and the amount of
actual expenditure for each fund;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, allocated to each of the several funds and separately stated as to
each such source, and for each fund: The actual unencumbered cash balance
available for such fund at the beginning of the year; the amount received from
taxation allocated to each fund; and the amount of actual and estimated
expenditure, whichever is applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash
reserve for each such fund for each fiscal year and shall note whether or not
such reserve is encumbered. Such cash reserve projections shall be based upon
the actual experience of prior years. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted for such fund exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, other than revenue to be received from taxation, separately
stated as to each such source, to be allocated to each of the several funds,
and for each fund: The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances,
whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the
amounts proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash
reserve, based on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall
not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a separate total for each fund, including each proprietary function
fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement prepared pursuant to
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 through 18- 2808 and a
grand total of all funds maintained by the governing body; and
      (5)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement if a separate proprietary budget statement has been prepared
for such proprietary functions pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function
Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 through 18-2808.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance of each fund
required to be included in the budget statement by this section shall include
deposits and investments of the municipality as well as any funds held by the
County Treasurer for the municipality and shall be accurately stated on the
proposed budget statement.
(Prior Code, § 1-802)  (Ord. 193, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-504
§ 33.03  BUDGET HEARING.
   (A)   Subsequent to the filing of the proposed budget statement, the
governing body shall publish a proposed budget and conduct a public hearing on
the proposed budget statement.
   (B)   Notice of the place and time of the said hearing, as well as a copy of
the proposed budget, shall be published at least five days prior to the date
set for the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.
   (C)   After such hearing, the statement shall be adopted, or amended, and
adopted as amended, and a written record shall be made of such hearing. If the
adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in the published
proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be published within
20 days after its adoption.
(Prior Code, § 1-803)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-506
§ 33.04  BUDGET FILING.
   (A)   The governing body shall file with and certify to the levying board on
or before September 20 of each year, and file with the State Auditor, a copy of
the adopted budget statement, together with the amount of tax to be levied and
proof of publication.
   (B)   The governing body shall not certify any tax that exceeds the maximum
levy prescribed by state law; provided, in certifying the amount to be so
levied, allowance may be made for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the
amount to be levied plus the actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the
preceding tax year.
(Prior Code, § 1-804)  (Ord. 194, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508
§ 33.05  BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(Prior Code, § 1-805)
§ 33.06  APPROPRIATIONS.
   The governing body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State
Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 through 13-522 to be termed “The Annual
Appropriation Bill”, in which are appropriated such sums of money as may be
deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-806)  (Ord. 195, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-706
§ 33.07  GENERAL PROPERTY TAX.
   The governing body shall cause to be certified to the County Clerk the
amount of tax to be levied upon the assessed value of all the taxable property
of the municipality for the requirements of the adopted budget for the ensuing
year, including all special assessments and taxes. The maximum amount of tax
which may be certified and assessed shall not require a tax levy in excess of
the legal maximum as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-807)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 33.08  EXPENDITURES.
   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue or draw any
order or warrant on the Municipal Treasury for money, unless the same has been
appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement to be
paid for out of the General Fund of the municipality shall exceed in any one
year the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget statement.
(Prior Code, § 1-808)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-708
§ 33.09  CONTRACT.
   (A)   The governing body shall before making any contract in excess of
$10,000 as estimated by the Municipal Engineer, for general improvements, such
as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges or work on streets,
or any other work or improvement where the cost of such improvement shall be
assessed to the property, advertise for bids, unless such contract shall be
entered into for the benefit of the municipal electric utility.
   (B)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for any such
work or improvement or for the purchase of such equipment without advertising
for bids if the:
      (1)   Price is $10,000 or less;
      (2)   Price is $20,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has
gross annual revenues from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Price is $30,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has
gross annual revenues from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   Price is $40,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has
gross annual revenues from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000. In
advertising for bids for any such work, or for the purchase of such equipment,
the governing body may cause the amount of such estimate to be published
therewith.
   (C)   Such advertisement shall be published once each week for three
consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation
in the municipality, or by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of
three public places in the municipality; provided, that in case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need
calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of, or serious
injury or damage to life, health or property, or war, estimates of costs and
advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance when adopted by a
three-fourths vote of the governing body.
   (D)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract for services,
material or labor, or if the bids received by the governing body contain a
price which exceeds the estimated cost of the project, the governing body shall
have the authority to negotiate a contract for services, material or labor in
an attempt to complete the proposed project at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (E)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body, or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the purchasing municipality, the
governing body or Board of Public Works, may authorize the manufacture and
assemblage of such materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost
expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
   (F)   The municipal bidding procedure shall be waived when materials or
equipment are purchased at the same price and from the same seller as materials
or equipment which have formerly been obtained pursuant to the state bidding
procedure.
(Prior Code, § 1-809)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-613
§ 33.10  ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The governing body shall cause an audit of the municipal accounts to
be made by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the
close of the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method
at the discretion of the governing body. The said audit shall be completed, and
the annual audit report made not later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year. The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
copies of the audit report to the governing body. All public utilities or other
enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be audited
separately, except in villages having a population of less than 800, and the
results of such audits shall appear separately in the annual audit report, and
such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and
materials which conform to generally accepted accounting principles.
   (B)   The audit report shall set forth the financial position and results of
financial operations for each fund or group of accounts of the municipality as
well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial statements.
Two copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk,
and shall become a part of the public records of the Municipal Clerk’s office,
and will at all times thereafter, be open for public inspection. One copy shall
be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts; provided, that all villages may
file an unaudited statement of cash receipts and disbursements annually in lieu
of an annual audit. Such unaudited statement shall be filed with the Auditor of
Public Accounts in a form prescribed by him or her. The unaudited statement of
cash receipts and disbursements shall become a part of the public records of
the Municipal Clerk and shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to
public inspection. Every governing body that is required herein to submit to an
audit of its accounts shall provide and file with the Municipal Clerk, not
later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing its actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 1-810)  (Ord. 111, passed 12-4-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2901 through 19-2909, 13-606
§ 33.11  CLAIMS.
   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the governing body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the governing body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order, or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the Municipal
Treasury for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn; provided,
that in the event there exists obligated funds from the federal and/or state
government for the general purpose of such warrant, then such warrant may be
drawn in excess of 85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the
purpose for which said warrant is drawn.
(Prior Code, § 1-811)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-714, 17-715
§ 33.12  WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk,
stating the particular fund to which the warrant is chargeable, the person to
whom it is payable, and the purpose of the expenditure. No money shall be
otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn. Each warrant shall specify the
amount included in the adopted budget statement for the fund upon which it is
drawn, and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-812)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-711
§ 33.13  TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The governing body may, whenever during the current fiscal year it
becomes apparent due to unforeseen emergencies that there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, by a majority vote transfer money from
other funds to such fund. No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made
in excess of the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as
authorized herein. If, as the result of unforeseen circumstances, the revenue
of the current fiscal year shall be insufficient, the governing body may
propose to supplement the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct
a public hearing at which time any taxpayer may appear, or file a written
statement protesting the application for additional money. A written record
shall be kept of all such hearings.
   (B)   Notice of a place, and time for the said hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality. The published notice shall set forth the time,
and place of the proposed hearing, the amount of additional money required, the
purpose of the required money, a statement setting forth the reasons why the
adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced to meet the need for
additional money, and a copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget
previously published.
   (C)   Upon the conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed supplemental
budget, and the approval by the governing body, the governing body shall file
with the County Clerk and the State Auditor a copy of the supplemental budget,
and shall certify the amount of additional tax to be levied. The governing body
may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted
supplemental budget. The said warrants shall be referred to as “registered
warrants,” and shall be repaid during the next fiscal year from funds derived
from taxes levied therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-813)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-510, 13-511
§ 33.14  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose unless to reimburse the municipality for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Prior Code, § 1-814)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-710
§ 33.15  SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The governing body, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall
have the power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by state law upon
the assessed value of all taxable property within the municipality for a term
not to exceed that prescribed by state law in addition to the amount of tax
which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement
of the municipality, for the purpose of establishing a Sinking Fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension or repair of the approved uses
as authorized by state law.
   (B)   To initiate the said Sinking Fund, the governing body shall declare
its purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the
municipality the proposition to provide the improvement at the next general
municipal election.
   (C)   The resolution shall set forth the improvement, the estimated cost,
the amount of the annual levy, the number of years required to provide the
required revenue, the name of the Sinking Fund proposed, and the proposition as
it will appear on the ballot.
   (D)   Notice of the said proposition shall be published in its entirety
three times on successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.
   (E)   The Sinking Fund may be established after the election if a majority,
or more of the legal votes were in favor of the establishment of the fund. The
governing body may then proceed to establish the said fund in conformity with
the provisions of the proposition, and applicable state law. The funds received
by the Municipal Treasurer shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested
with the written approval of the governing body in the manner provided by state
law. No Sinking Fund so established shall be used for any purpose or purposes
contrary to the purpose as it appeared on the ballot unless the governing body
is authorized to do so by 60% of the qualified electors of the municipality
voting at a general election favoring such a change in the use of the Sinking
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-815)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1301 through 19-1304, 77-2337, 77-2339
§ 33.16  GENERAL FUND.
   All money not specifically appropriated in the annual appropriation bill
shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-816)
§ 33.17  DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The governing body, at its first meeting in each fiscal year, shall
designate one or more banks of approved and responsible standing in which the
Municipal Treasurer shall keep at all times all money held by him or her;
provided, if more than one bank in the municipality meets the requirements for
approved banks as herein defined, the said funds shall be deposited in each of
them, and the Municipal Treasurer shall not give a preference to any one or
more of them in the money he or she shall deposit.
   (B)   A bond shall be required from all banks so selected in a penal sum
which equals the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the amount insured
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or a pledge of sufficient assets
of the bank to secure the payment of all such deposits.
(Prior Code, § 1-817)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-607, 77-2362 through 77-2364
§ 33.18  INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of its
current needs or has accumulated a Sinking Fund for the payment of its bonds
and the money in such Sinking Fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay the
principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the current
year, the governing body may invest any such surplus in certificates of
deposit, in time deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment
Officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized investment
guidelines of the State Investment Council in effect on the date the investment
is made.
(Prior Code, § 1-818)  (Ord. 165, passed 4-6-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-608, 17-609, 77-2341
§ 33.19  BOND ISSUES.
   (A)   The governing body may, after meeting all the requirements of state
law, issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be
permitted by state law.
   (B)   The governing body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds, and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-819)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 10-209 through 10-411, 10-606 through 10-
612, 12-1001, 17-529.01, 17-529.08, 17-534, 17-905, 17-908, 17-911, 17-939, 17-
958, 17-968, 18-1801 through 18-1805, 23-343.13, 39-836
SPECIFIC FEES, TAXES
§ 33.30  NATURAL GAS RATE FILING FEE.
   The village shall charge and collect a filing fee from natural gas companies
for a rate filing. The fee shall be $75.
(Prior Code, § 10-701)  (Ord. 141, passed 11-3-1987)
§ 33.31  SUBDIVISION, ZONING OR PLANNING FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The village shall require advance payment of all fees required for any
action requested as may be authorized by its applicable subdivision, zoning and
planning regulations.
   (B)   All fees for any application or filing that may be authorized by the
subdivisions, zoning or planning regulations shall be nonrefundable.
   (C)   The following fees shall be payable to the village prior to
consideration of actions authorized by its duly adopted subdivision, zoning or
planning regulations.
 
Appeal to Board of Adjustment                 $100
Application for conditional use permit        $25
Application for rezoning                      $50
Application for variance                      $100
Communication tower administrative review fee $1,500
Final plat approval application               $50
New wireless communication tower application  $3,000
 
(Ord. 259, passed 9-14-2010)
CHAPTER 34:  INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
Section
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Petitions, ballots
   
34.03   Petitions; form
   
34.04   Signature sheets
   
34.05   Petitions; affidavit
   
34.06   Petitions, notification
   
34.07   Frequency of occurrence
   
34.08   Direct vote
   
34.09   Elections
   
34.10   Ballots
   
34.11   Initiative
   
34.12   Referendum limitations
   
34.13   Referendum, passage
   
34.14   Applicability
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the municipality by state law. This chapter shall govern the use of
initiative to enact, and the use of referendum to amend or repeal measures
affecting the governance of the municipality. For the purpose of this chapter,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   CIRCULATOR.  Any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
   CLERK.  The Municipal Clerk or the Municipal Official in charge of
elections.
   GOVERNING BODY.  The legislative authority of the municipality.
   MEASURE.  An ordinance, charter provision, or resolution which is within the
legislative authority of the governing body to enact, and which is not excluded
from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in §
34.12.
   MUNICIPALITY.  The Village of Alda, Nebraska.
   PETITION.  A document authorized for circulation pursuant to §
34.02, or any copy of such document.
   PROSPECTIVE PETITION.  A sample document containing the information
necessary for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which
has not yet been authorized for circulation.
   QUALIFIED ELECTORS.  All persons registered to vote, at the time the
prospective petition is filed, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed
by any measure sought to be enacted by initiative, or altered or repealed by
referendum.
   SIGNATURE SHEET.  A sheet of paper which is part of a petition and which is
signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2511
§ 34.02  PETITIONS, BALLOTS.
   (A)   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the
petitioner shall file with the Clerk a prospective petition. The Clerk shall
date the prospective petition immediately upon its receipt. The Clerk shall
verify that the prospective petition is in proper form, and shall provide a
ballot title for the initiative or referendum proposal, as described below. If
the prospective petition is in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the
circulation of the petition and such authorization shall be given within three
working days from the date the prospective petition was filed. If the form of
the prospective petition is incorrect in any way, the Clerk shall, within three
working days from the date the prospective petition was filed, inform the
petitioner of necessary changes and request that those changes be made. When
the requested changes have been made and the revised prospective petition has
been submitted to the Clerk in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the
circulation of the petition and such authorization shall be given within two
working days from the receipt of the properly revised petition.
   (B)   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall
consist of:
      (1)   A briefly-worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
      (2)   A  briefly-worded  question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure,  and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement, of not more than 75 words, of
the chief purpose of the measure.
   (C)   The ballots used when voting on an initiative or referendum proposal
shall contain the entire ballot title. Proposals for initiative and referendum
shall be submitted on separate ballots and the ballots shall be printed in
lower case ten point type, except that the caption shall be in black face. All
initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a nonpartisan manner
without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they have or have not been
approved or endorsed by any political party or organization.
(Prior Code, § 1-1002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2512, 18-2513
§ 34.03  PETITIONS; FORM.
   (A)   The Secretary of State shall design the form to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions, including signature sheets. These forms shall be made
available to the public by the Clerk, and they shall serve as a guide for
individuals preparing prospective petitions. Substantial compliance with
initiative and referendum forms is required before authorization to circulate
such petition may be granted by the Clerk. Those preparing prospective
petitions shall be responsible for making copies of the petition for
circulation, once authorization for circulation has been granted, and each
petition presented for signature must be identical to the petition authorized
for circulation by the Clerk.
   (B)   Every petition shall contain the name and residential address of not
more than three persons as chief petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The
chief petitioners or sponsors shall be qualified electors of the municipality
potentially affected by the initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition
shall contain the caption and ballot title required in §
34.02, and only qualified electors shall circulate petitions.
(Prior Code, § 1-1003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2514, 18-2515
§ 34.04  SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   (A)   Every signature sheet shall:
      (1)   Contain the caption required in §
34.02(A);
      (2)   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories;
      (3)   Provide space for signatories to write their names, residential
addresses and the date of signing; and
      (4)   Contain a statement that anyone falsifying information on a
signature sheet shall be subject to penalties provided by law.
   (B)   No more than 25 signatures on each signature sheet shall be counted.
In order to be valid, a signature shall be that of an individual registered to
vote, at the time of signing, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed by
the measure addressed in the petition. A signature shall include the
signatory’s full name, his or her residential address, and the date of signing.
No signatory shall use ditto marks as a means of affixing his or her address or
date on any petition. A wife shall not use her husband’s Christian or given
name when she signs a petition and she shall sign her own Christian or given
name along with her surname.
(Prior Code, § 1-1004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2516
§ 34.05  PETITIONS; AFFIDAVIT.
   (A)   Included in the contents of every petition shall be an affidavit, to
be signed by the circulator in the presence of a notary, which states that the
circulator is a qualified elector, that each person who signed the petition did
so in the presence of the circulator on the date indicated, and that the
circulator believes that each signatory was registered to vote in the affected
jurisdiction at the time he or she signed the petition and that the circulator
believes that each signatory has stated his or her name and address correctly.
   (B)   When a special election is being requested, such fact shall be stated
in the petition.
(Prior Code, § 1-1005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2517
§ 34.06  PETITIONS, NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature
verification.
      (1)   Upon the filing of a petition, and passage of a resolution by the
governing body, the municipality and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
of the County in which such municipality is located may by mutual agreement
provide that the County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether
the petition is signed by the requisite number of voters.
      (2)   The municipality shall reimburse the county for any costs incurred
by the County Clerk or Election Commissioner.
      (3)   When the verifying official has determined that 100% of the
necessary signatures required by this chapter have been obtained, he or she
shall notify the governing body of that fact, and shall immediately forward to
the governing body a copy of the petition.
   (B)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the governing body and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file
with the Clerk within six months from the date the prospective petition was
authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not obtained by
such date, the petition shall be void.
(Prior Code, § 1-1006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2518
§ 34.07  FREQUENCY OF OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure, either in form or in essential substance, may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition, either affirmatively or
negatively, more often than once every two years. No attempt to repeal or alter
an existing measure or portion of such measure by referendum petition may be
made within two years from the last attempt to do the same. Such prohibition
shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is designed to
accomplish the same, or essentially the same purpose as the previous attempt.
(Prior Code, § 1-1007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2519
§ 34.08  DIRECT VOTE.
   The Executive Officer and governing body of the municipality may at any
time, by resolution, provide for the submission to a direct vote of the
electors of any measure pending before it, enacted by it, or enacted by the
electors under this chapter and may provide in such resolution that such shall
be submitted at a special election or the next regularly scheduled primary or
general election. Immediately upon the passage of any such resolution for
submission, the Clerk shall cause such measure to be submitted to a direct vote
of the electors, at the time specified in such resolution and in the manner
provided in this chapter for submission of measures upon proposals and
petitions filed by voters. Such matter shall become law if approved by a
majority of the votes cast.
(Prior Code, § 1-1008)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2520
§ 34.09  ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk shall call elections under this chapter, either at a special
election or regularly scheduled primary or general election.
   (B)   He or she shall cause notice of every such election to be printed in
one or more newspapers of general circulation in such municipality and also
posted in the office of the Clerk and three or more conspicuous places in such
municipality at least 30 days prior to such election. The Clerk shall cause
copies of measures initiated or referred to be printed in pamphlet form, and
furnish the same to the electors of such municipality upon their application or
order. Such notice provided in this section shall designate where such copies
may be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 1-1009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2521
§ 34.10  BALLOTS.
   All ballots for use in special elections under this chapter shall be
prepared and furnished by the Clerk, unless the governing body contracts with
the county for such service, and shall be in the same form as provided by law
for election of the executive officer and governing body of such municipality.
When ordinances under such sections are submitted to the electors at a
regularly scheduled primary or general election they shall be placed upon the
official ballots as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1010)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2522
§ 34.11  INITIATIVE.
   (A)   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the municipality. An initiative proposal shall not
have as its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law
except if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the
adoption and effective operation of the initiative measure.
   (B)   An initiative shall not be effective if the direct or indirect effect
of the passage of such initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an
existing law, or portion thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject
only to limited referendum pursuant to §
34.12.
   (C)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of a municipal subdivision has been
filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the governing body
to consider enactment of the measure contained in the petition. If the
governing body fails to enact the measure without amendment, within 30 days
from the date it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or
general election held within the municipality.
   (D)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified electors which requests that a special election
be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the people, has been
filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the governing body
to consider enactment of the measure contained in the petition. If the
governing body fails to enact the measure, without amendment, within 30 days
from the date it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called for such
purpose. The date of such election shall not be less than 30 nor more than 60
days from the date the governing body received notification pursuant to §
34.06.
   (E)   If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall vote in
favor of such measure, it shall immediately become a valid and binding measure
of the municipality. A measure adopted by such method shall not be amended or
repealed except by two-thirds majority of the members of the governing body. No
such attempt to amend or repeal shall be made within one year from the adoption
of the measure by the electors.
(Prior Code, § 1-1011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2523 through 18-2526
§ 34.12  REFERENDUM LIMITATIONS.
   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures, or portions thereof, affecting the governance of the
municipality.
   (A)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
      (1)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations, including,
but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided for in bonds,
notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness, for projects previously
approved by a measure which was, or is, subject to referendum or limited
referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to the effective
date of this chapter;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the State Budget Act;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the governing body and approved
by its Executive Officer;
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in division (D) below for which a sufficient referendum petition
was not filed within the time limit stated in such notice or which received
voter approval after the filing of such petition;
      (6)   Resolutions directing the Clerk to cause measures to be submitted
to a vote of the people at a special election as provided in §
34.11 and in §
34.13;
      (7)   Resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for measures enacted
by initiative as provided in §
34.11; and
      (8)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality and
which are necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (B)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the municipality or relating
to projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election, except that such measures shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum for a period of one year after any such policy or project
was approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative or approved by the
voters at an election;
      (2)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the costs
of public ways, public property, utility systems, and other capital projects,
and measures giving initial approval for industrial development projects;
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness,
and pay rates and salaries for municipal employees other than the members of
the governing body and the Executive Officer; and
      (4)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality
except for measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for
in previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (C)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take effect 30
days after their passage by the governing body, including an override of any
veto, if necessary. Referendum petitions directed at measures subject to
limited referendum shall be filed for signature verification pursuant to §
34.06 within 30 days after such measure’s passage by the governing body,
including an override of any veto, if necessary, or after notice is first
published pursuant to division (D)(3) below. If the necessary number of
signatures as provided in §
34.13 has been obtained within the time limitation, the effectiveness of the
measure shall be suspended unless approved by the voters.
   (D)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems or other capital projects or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, the municipality may exempt all subsequent measures relating to
the same project from the referendum and limited referendum procedures provided
for in this chapter by the following procedure:
      (1)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place of
such hearing being published at least once not less than five days prior to the
date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the governing
body’s jurisdiction;
      (2)   By passage of a measure approving the project, including an
override of a veto, if necessary, at a meeting held on any date subsequent to
the date of hearing; and
      (3)   After passage of such measure, including an override of a veto, if
necessary, by giving notice as follows:
         (a)   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum; and
         (b)   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication of a
notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the Engineer’s estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum. The notice required by this division (D)(3)
(b) shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality and shall be published not later than 15 days after passage by
the governing body, including an override of a veto, if necessary, of a measure
approving the project.
      (4)   The right to hold such a hearing prior to the passage of the
measure by the governing body and give such notice after passage of such
measure by the governing body to obtain exemption for any particular project in
a manner described in this division (D)(3)(b) is optional and the municipality
shall not be required to hold such a hearing or give such notice for any
particular project.
   (E)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (A), (B) and (D) above,
shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after such measure has
been passed by the governing body, including an override of a veto, if
necessary, or enacted by the voters by initiative.
(Prior Code, § 1-1012)  (Ord. 176, passed 4-6-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2527, 18-2528
§ 34.13  REFERENDUM, PASSAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with
the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the governing body to
reconsider the measure or portion of such measure which is the object of the
referendum. If the governing body fails to repeal or amend the measure or
portion thereof in the manner proposed by the referendum, the Clerk shall cause
the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly
scheduled primary or general election held within the municipality, within 30
days from the date the governing body receives notification.
   (B)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified voters of the municipality which requests that a
special election be called to submit the referendum measure to a vote of the
people, has been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the
governing body to reconsider the measure or portion of such measure which is
the object of the referendum. If the governing body fails to repeal or amend
the measure or portion thereof, in the manner proposed by the referendum, the
Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at a
special election called for such purpose within 30 days from the date the
governing body received notification. The date of such special election shall
not be less than 30 nor more than 60 days from the date the governing body
received notification.
   (C)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form except by a two-thirds majority of
the members of the governing body. No such attempt to re-enact or return the
measure to its original form shall be made within one year of the repeal or
amendment of the measure by the electors. If the referendum measure does not
receive a majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately become effective or
remain in effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-1013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2529 through 18-2531
§ 34.14  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of the statutes of the state relating to election
officers, voting places, election apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of
ballots, information to voters, delivery of ballots, calling of elections,
conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes, records and
certificates of election, and recounts of votes, so far as applicable, shall
apply to voting on ordinances by the electors pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to procedures for initiatives or
referendums provided in Neb. RS 18-412 and 18-412.02 relating to municipal
light and power plants, Neb. RS 70-504, 70-650.01 and 70-650.02, relating to
public power districts, and Neb. RS 80-203 to 80-205 relating to soldiers and
sailors monuments.
(Prior Code, § 1-1015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2536, 18-2537
§ 34.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for
each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes
a false oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a
limit of $300 on the fine.
      (2)   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof, or signs a false name thereto, or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made, or suppresses any petition, or
any part thereof, which has been duly filed, pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2501
through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $500
on the fine.
      (3)   Whoever signs any petition under Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531
knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where such
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this section, bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of value
to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign such
petition, or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to
sign a petition, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $300
on the fine.
      (4)   Any Clerk who willfully refuses to comply with the provisions of
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531, or who willfully causes unreasonable delay in
the execution of his or her duties under such sections shall be guilty of a
Class IV felony but imprisonment shall not be included as part of the
punishment and the fine shall not exceed $5,000.
(Prior Code, § 1-1014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2532 through 18-2535
CHAPTER 35:  VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
35.01   Standing committees; general provisions
   
35.02   Board of Health
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01  STANDING COMMITTEES; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Village Board, the Village
Chairperson shall appoint members of such standing committees as the Village
Board may by ordinance, or resolution, create. The membership of such standing
committees may be changed at any time by the Village Chairperson. The Village
Chairperson shall be a member ex officio of each standing committee. The
members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office of one year,
unless reappointed.
   (B)   The following standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed
each year until changed by the governing body:
      (1)   Water and Sewer;
      (2)   Streets;
      (3)   Fire;
      (4)   Building and Equipment; and
      (5)   Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 35.02  BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint the Board of Health, which shall
consist of three members who are residents of the municipality.
   (B)   The Board members shall include the Village Chairperson, who shall
serve as Chairperson; the Village Marshal, who shall be the Secretary and
Quarantine Officer; and one other member. The third member shall be a physician
when a physician is residing permanently in the municipality.
   (C)   The members of the Board shall serve a one-year term of office, unless
reappointed, and shall reorganize at the first meeting in June of each year.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the same with the Municipal
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
   (E)   The Board shall be funded by the governing body from time to time from
the General Fund.
   (F)   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
doing business.
   (G)   The Board shall meet at such times as the governing body may
designate.
   (H)   Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or any
two members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board to enact rules and
regulations which shall have the full force and effect of the law, to safeguard
the health of the residents of the municipality.
   (I)   The Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide fines
and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress and
prevent the occurrence of nuisances and shall actively enforce all laws of the
state and ordinances of the municipality relating to matters of sanitation
which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall regularly
inspect such premises and businesses as the governing body may direct.
   (J)   All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the governing body. The Board shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the governing body may
designate. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than one Board of
Health position.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 35.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 2-301)
CHAPTER 36:  POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Fire Department
   
36.01   Operation and funding
   
36.02   Fire Chief
   
36.03   Membership
   
36.04   Records
   
36.05   Fires
   
36.06   Distant fires
   
36.07   Fighting distant fires
   
36.08   Preservation of property
   
36.09   Hose tested
   
36.10   Inspections
   
36.11   Notice of violation
   
36.12   Impersonating firefighters
   
36.13   Mandatory assistance
   
36.14   Power of arrest
   
36.15   Fire investigation
Police Department
   
36.30   Duties
   
36.31   Reserve officer; bond
   
36.32   Contract for police services
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the
Municipal Fire Chief and firefighters. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management, maintenance and improving the Fire
Department, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the municipality that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Fire Department Fund. The Fund
shall be at all times in the possession of the Municipal Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-718, 17-953
§ 36.02  FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the governing body when any of the fire engines, hoses, ladders
or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the
governing body, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or
maintenance of the said equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of
the same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the governing
body at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to
the governing body of the general condition and the proposed additions or
improvements recommended by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-302)
§ 36.03  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall appoint no more than 25 members for each Fire
Department Company, subject to the review and approval of the governing body.
      (1)   All vacancies shall be filled in this manner. Said members shall be
considered to be employees of the municipality for the purpose of providing
them with workmen’s compensation and other benefits. Each member shall be
entitled to a term life insurance policy in the amount of at least $5,000 for
death from any cause to age 65, and such policy shall, at the option of the
individual firefighter, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at
age 65; provided, that the firefighters covered are actively and faithfully
performing the duties of their position. The Fire Department shall consist of
so many members as may be decided by the governing body. The members may
organize themselves in any way they may decide, subject to the review of the
governing body. They may hold meetings and engage in social activities with the
approval of the governing body. The Secretary shall upon request keep a record
of all meetings and shall make a report to the governing body of all meetings
and activities of the Fire Department.
      (2)   The governing body may, for services rendered, compensate or reward
any member or members of the Fire Department in an amount set by resolution.
All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the governing body. The members of the Fire
Department shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and
exercise the powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and
authority to arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the municipal code,
or the laws of the state.
   (B)   Provided, however, volunteer firefighters and rescue squad members
testifying as a witness in connection with his or her officially assigned
duties in that capacity alone shall not be deemed employees of the state or of
the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-303)  (Ord. 125, passed 11-5-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 33-139.01, 35-101 through 35-103, 35-108
§ 36.04  RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, a record of all
fires, and shall make a full report of such records to the Municipal Clerk
during the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include
the cause, origin, circumstances, property involved, and whether criminal
conduct may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, he or
she shall include the information of whether such losses were covered by
insurance, and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the
public at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-304)
§ 36.05  FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the municipality; and to
secure the observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations
with respect to fires and fire prevention.
(Prior Code, § 3-305)
§ 36.06  DISTANT FIRES.
   Pursuant to the agreement with the Rural Fire District for mutual aid and
protection, such fire equipment of the municipality as may be designated by the
governing body as rural equipment may be used beyond the corporate limits to
extinguish a reported fire.
(Prior Code, § 3-306)
§ 36.07  FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
   The firefighters of the municipality shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the municipality when directed
to do so by the Mayor or Chief of the Fire Department or some person authorized
to act for such Chief and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the
municipality as may be designated by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-307)
§ 36.08  PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department shall have the power during
the time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property
whenever it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of such
property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire, or to protect adjoining
property. The said officials may direct the municipal firefighters to remove
any building, structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of
any fire, and the official in charge of the fire fighting effort shall have the
power to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any
building or erection during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
extinguishing or checking the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-308)
§ 36.09  HOSE TESTED.
   All fire hose shall be pressure tested at least one time each year.
(Prior Code, § 3-309)
§ 36.10  INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
governing body, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department
officers, members or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not
less than two times a year in outlying districts and four times a year within
the fire limits, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection
shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids, combustibles and
explosives; electric wiring and heating; and the means and adequacy of exits,
in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theaters, factories,
hospitals and all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from
time to time for any purpose whether publicly or privately owned; the design,
construction, location, installation and operation of equipment for storing,
handling and utilizing of liquefied petroleum gases, specifying the odorization
of said gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin plastics,
nitrocellulose films or any other hazardous material that may now or hereafter
exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-310)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 36.11  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Upon the finding that the municipal code has been violated, the Fire Chief
shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant or manager of the
premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the said premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an
order upon the owner, such order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy
to the owner’s last known post office address if the said owner is absent from
the jurisdiction. Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the
owner, occupant or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant or
manager may, within five days after such order by the Chief of the Fire
Department or his or her agent, appeal the order with the governing body
requesting a review and it shall be the duty of the governing body to hear the
same within not less than five days nor more than ten days from the time when
the request was filed in writing with the Municipal Clerk, The governing body
shall then affirm, modify or rescind the said order as safety and justice may
require and the decision shall then be final, subject only to any remedy which
the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. The said order shall be
modified or rescinded only where it is evident that reasonable safety exists
and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the probable hardship in
complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A copy of any decision so
made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the owner, occupant or manager
making the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 3-311)
§ 36.12  IMPERSONATING FIREFIGHTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely personate a firefighter by
wearing a badge or other apparel usually worn by a firefighter for the purpose
of obtaining any benefit whatsoever. Nothing herein shall be construed to
prohibit the theatrical representation of a firefighter for bona fide
entertainment purposes when there is no intent to defraud.
(Prior Code, § 3-312)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-609
§ 36.13  MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department  may command  the assistance
and services of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire,
or in the removal and protection of property. In the event that a spectator
refuses, neglects or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order
to do so, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-313)
§ 36.14  POWER OF ARREST.
   The Municipal Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power
during the time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the firefighting effort, or any person who conducts himself or
herself in a noisy or disorderly manner. The said officials shall be severally
vested with the usual powers and authority of municipal police officers to
command all persons to assist them in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 3-314)
§ 36.15  FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of
$50. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such officers shall
especially make an investigation and report as to whether such fire was the
result of carelessness, accident or design. Such investigation shall be begun
within two days of the occurrence of such fire and the State Fire Marshal shall
have the right to supervise and direct the investigation whenever he or she
deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the investigation of fires
occurring within the municipality shall immediately notify the State Fire
Marshal and shall, within one week of the occurrence of the fire, furnish him
or her with a written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and
origin of the fire, and such further information as he or she may call for.
(Prior Code, § 3-315)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-506
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.30  DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Village Marshal and such further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Board of Trustees. The Village Marshal shall, subject to the direction of the
Chairperson, have control and management of all matters relating to the Police
Department, its officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of
all property and books belonging to the Department. The Department shall
execute and enforce all laws and also the orders of the Chairperson. It shall
be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of persons and property.
There shall be a proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take
notice of all nuisances, impediments, obstructions and defects in the streets,
avenues, alleys, business places and residences of the municipality. The
Department shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and
shall cause all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for
trial as speedily as possible. The Village Marshal and all regular and special
police officers shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the
municipality, and shall see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make
sworn complaints against any person or persons for violation of the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-401)
§ 36.31  RESERVE OFFICER; BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the village, has been filed with the
Municipal Clerk by the individual appointed, or a blanket surety bond arranged
and paid for by the governing body and bonding all such officers of the
governing body has been filed. Such bonds shall be subject to the provisions of
Neb. RS Chapter 11, Article 1.
(Prior Code, § 3-402)  (Ord. 132, passed 10-7-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-1444
§ 36.32  CONTRACT FOR POLICE SERVICES.
   The village may by action of its duly elected Village Board enter into
contracts with the County Board for all or some portion of police services to
be provided by the County Sheriff and to the extent such a contract for
services shall exist, the County Sheriff shall perform those duties specified
by §
36.30.
(Prior Code, § 3-403)  (Ord. 197, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-3801
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
      
54.   BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 50:  UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Discontinuance of service, notice procedure
   
50.02   Diversion of services
   
50.03   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection,
prohibited; evidence
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No municipal utility shall discontinue service to any domestic
subscriber for nonpayment of any due account unless such utility shall first
give written notice by mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be
terminated at least seven days prior to termination. As to any subscriber who
has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the utility by the
Department of Public Welfare, such notice shall be by certified mail and notice
of such proposed termination shall be given to the Department of Public
Welfare.
   (B)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by a
municipal utility, the domestic subscriber, upon request, shall be provided a
conference with the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees has established
procedures to resolve utility bills when a conference is requested by a
domestic subscriber. These procedures, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the Village Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part hereof as though set out in full.
A copy of such procedures shall be furnished upon the request of any domestic
subscriber. The Board of Trustees shall notify the domestic subscriber of the
time, place and date scheduled for such conference.
(Prior Code, § 3-501)  Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1603, 70-1604
§ 50.02  DIVERSION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages against any
person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts: bypassing;
tampering; or unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
municipal utility. A municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant
to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
   (B)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the municipality
shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
      (1)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage or
loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
      (2)   Liquidated damages of: until July 1, 1985, $500; and on July 1,
1985, and thereafter, $750 if the amount of actual damage or loss is not
susceptible of reasonable calculation.
   (C)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (A) or (B) above, the
municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account
of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering including, but not limited
to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the suit
and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the code of Neb. RS 25-1801.
   (D)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or occupant at
any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering or unauthorized
metering if the tenant or occupant:
      (1)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the premises
where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist; and
      (2)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
   (E)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
   (F)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws and the
remedies provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of
any other civil or criminal statutory or common law remedies.
(Prior Code, § 3-502)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03  DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION,
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Any person who connects any pipe or conduit supplying water, without
the knowledge and consent of the municipality, in such manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed
without passing through the meter provided for measuring or registering the
amount or quantity passing through it, and any person who knowingly uses or
knowingly permits the use of water obtained in the above mentioned unauthorized
ways, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any person who willfully injures, alters or by any instrument, device
or contrivance in any manner interferes with or obstructs the action or
operation of any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount
or quantity of water passing through it, without the knowledge and consent of
the municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (C)   When water service has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601
to 70-1615, or §
50.01, any person who reconnects such service without the knowledge and consent
of the municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (D)   Proof of the existence of any pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration or obstruction of a meter, as
provided in this section, shall be taken as prima facie evidence of the guilt
of the person in possession of the premises where such connection,
reconnection, injury, alteration or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-503)  (Ord. 196, passed 1-9-1996)  Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 86-329 through 86-330
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
CHAPTER 51:  GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Garbage, trash and waste
   
51.03   Removal, charge
   
51.04   Dead animals
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE.  Every accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable waste generated
by or resulting from the decay, deterioration, storage, preparation or handling
of any animal and vegetable matter in any place or at any point where food is
prepared for human consumption, including all kitchen and dining room refuse
produced by households, hotels, restaurants, lunchrooms, clubs, hospitals,
schools, stores, warehouses, cold storage plants, creameries, bakeries or any
other source whatsoever existing in the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
   RUBBISH or TRASH.  Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags
or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the health of
the residents of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
   WASTE.  Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust or sand.
(Prior Code, § 4-203)
§ 51.02  GARBAGE, TRASH AND WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any dwelling,
building or premises, or any other place in the municipality, decayed vegetable
or animal substance, garbage or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious
to the public health or offensive to the residents of the municipality, unless
the same is kept in receptacles not exceeding a 30-gallon capacity and as
nearly air-tight as may be practical. It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep
into the streets, alleys, parks or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails,
pieces of glass, refuse, waste or rubbish of any kind. No person may permit
garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse to collect and all persons shall remove the
same from their property within 72 hours after being notified to do so by the
Village Marshal who shall represent the Board of Health. In all cases where the
owner of the property is a non-resident of the municipality, the notice shall
be sent by registered mail to the last known address of such owner and then in
that event, the owner of such premises shall have ten days’ time in which to
comply with the order of the Village Marshal. Any person having garbage,
rubbish, waste or refuse that is subject to decay or fermentation within a
short period of time shall be required to place the same in a standard garbage
can with a tight cover, or a durable plastic container that is securely tied at
its opening. All persons shall have the contents of their garbage cans removed
at least once a week.
(Prior Code, § 4-204)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 51.03  REMOVAL, CHARGE.
   If any person shall fail, neglect or refuse to remove any garbage, trash or
waste from his or her dwelling, building or premises after notice has been
given and the time limit has expired as set out in §
51.02, it shall then be the duty of the Village Marshal to cause such garbage,
trash or waste to be removed from such dwelling, building or premises. The
actual cost paid for such removal shall be certified to the Municipal Clerk,
and such amount shall be billed to the owner of the property from which the
garbage, trash or waste was removed. If such bill for removal of garbage, trash
or waste remains unpaid on the fifteenth day following receipt of the bill by
the property owner, a penalty charge shall be added thereto in the amount of
$0.50 per month while the bill remains unpaid. Bills not paid within three
months of receipt of the bill by the property owner shall be deemed to be
delinquent, and such delinquent bills shall be assessed against the property
and collected and enforced in the same manner as other taxes. Such assessment
shall be a lien upon the real estate from and after the date of assessment.
(Prior Code, § 4-205)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207
§ 51.04  DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner of
such animals; and if the owner of such animal cannot be found within two hours
after discovering the same, then such animal shall be removed by and at the
expense of the municipality. Dead animals shall not be buried within the
corporate limits of the municipality, nor within one mile thereof, nor in or
above the course of ground water that is used for drinking purposes by the
municipality or its inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 4-206)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207
CHAPTER 52:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Operation and funding
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Consumer’s application
   
52.04   Service to non-residents
   
52.05   Water contract
   
52.06   Installation procedure
   
52.07   Installation expense
   
52.08   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.09   Water meters
   
52.10   Fees and collections
   
52.11   Minimum rates
   
52.12   Water bills
   
52.13   Lien
   
52.14   Separate premises liability
   
52.15   Restricted use
   
52.16   Fire hydrants
   
52.17   Mandatory hookup
   
52.18   Water service contracts
   
52.19   Inspection
   
52.20   Police reports
   
52.21   Destruction of property
   
52.22   Licensed plumber
   
52.23   Drilling and operation of wells and other underground facilities or
contaminating facilities without permit unlawful
   
52.24   Procedure to obtain permit
   
52.25   Drilling or installation of other facilities within designated distance
from municipal water sources prohibited
   
52.26   Private domestic water wells not part of the public water system
   
52.27   Water rates
Water Emergencies
   
52.40   Purpose
   
52.41   Definitions
   
52.42   Declaration of water watch
   
52.43   Declaration of water warning
   
52.44   Declaration of water emergency
   
52.45   Voluntary conservation measures
   
52.46   Mandatory conservation measures
   
52.47   Emergency water rates
   
52.48   Regulations
   
52.49   Emergency termination
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the governing body. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost
of care, management and maintenance of the Municipal Water Department may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be
known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The governing body shall have the direct management and control of
the Municipal Water Department. The governing body shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Water Department and shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by
ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the Municipal
Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, 19-1305
§ 52.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER.  The customer to whom water services are being supplied as
reflected by the application for water services on file with the Municipal
Clerk.
   GOVERNING BODY.  The Alda Village Board of Trustees.
   MAIN.  Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES.  More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service pipe or supply pipe. Such SEPARATE PREMISES may consist of a separate
dwelling, apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE.  Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE.  Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a
point at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off,
stop box or curb cock is located.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 52.03  CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk may require any applicant
to make a service deposit in such amount as may be established by the governing
body in its ordinance establishing rates for water usage. Water may not be
supplied to any house or private service pipe except upon the order of the
governing body or its designated representative.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04  SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   The Municipal Water Department shall not supply water service to any person
outside the corporate limits without special permission from the governing
body. The entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe to provide
service outside the corporate limits shall be paid by such non-resident.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
provide water service to non-residents.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05  WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and water
rates as may be established by the governing body shall be considered a part of
every application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a
part of the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without
further formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or
the use or consumption of water service by any present consumer thereof and the
furnishing of water service to such consumer shall constitute a contract
between the consumer and the municipality, to which contract both parties are
bound. If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of the contract or
any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter
adopt, the governing body or its designated agent may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premises or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to such building, premises or place shall
again be made except by order of the governing body or its designated agent.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06  INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   Whenever excavations are made in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the
purpose of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth
must be removed and deposited in a manner that cause the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the municipality shall have the authority to finish
or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to the
consumer benefitted by the service pipe or supply pipe for which those
excavations were made. All installation shall be done under the supervision and
strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications
prescribed for such installation by the State Department of Health and the
governing body.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.07  INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of providing water service to the main and making repairs to
such main shall be paid by the municipality. The consumer shall pay the cost of
installation of any service pipe and supply pipe from the main to the place of
dispersal, including the cost of the stop box whereby the municipality may shut
off the supply of water to the consumer as may be required or permitted. The
consumer shall be required to pay all expenses for procuring the services of a
plumber, including the expense of furnishing and installing pipe, trenching and
necessary labor to bring water service from the main to the place of dispersal.
Each consumer shall also be required to pay a one-time $100 hookup fee to the
municipality at the time service is supplied.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.08  REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The consumer at consumer’s own expense shall replace and keep in repair all
service pipe and supply pipe from the main to the place of dispersal. When
leaks occur in the service pipe or the supply pipe, the municipality may shut
off water service until the leak is repaired to the satisfaction of the
governing body or its designated agent.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09  WATER METERS.
   A water meter shall be installed by the municipality for each separate
premises to which the municipality shall supply water services. The
municipality shall own and have unrestricted access to all water meters and the
consumer shall permit the designated agent of the municipality for the purposes
of reading those water meters and effectuating necessary repairs or
replacements of such water meters. All water meters shall be kept in repair by
the municipality at the expense of the municipality. When those water meters
are worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by the municipality; provided,
that if the consumer permits or allows a water meter to be damaged, injured or
destroyed through the consumer’s own recklessness, carelessness or neglect so
that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the governing body of the
municipality shall bill and collect from the consumer the cost of such meter
repair or replacement. All water meters shall be tested by the municipality at
the consumer’s request at the consumer’s expense; provided, however, if the
test shows the water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such
test shall be borne by the municipality. Further, the municipality reserves the
right to test any water service meter at any time, and, if said meter is found
to be beyond repair, the municipality shall have the right to place a new meter
on the consumer’s water service fixtures at the expense of the municipality.
Should a consumer’s water meter fail to register properly, the consumer shall
be charged for water during the time the water meter is out of repair on the
basis of the monthly consumption during the same month of the preceding year;
provided, that if no such basis for comparison exists, the customer shall be
charged such amount as may be reasonably fixed by the governing body. It shall
further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter, or by means
of any device to divert water from the service pipe so that the same shall not
pass through said water meter, or while passing through said water meter, to
cause the same to register inaccurately.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10  FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All such
fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk. The Municipal Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all money
received on the account of the Water Department.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-540
§ 52.11  MINIMUM RATES.
   All consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by ordinance
unless and until the consumer shall by written order direct the designated
representative of the municipality to shut off the water at the stop box, in
which case the consumer shall not be liable for water services until the water
is turned on again.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.12  WATER BILLS.
   Water bills shall be prepared by the Municipal Clerk and will be due and
payable monthly at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Such bills shall be
determined for water consumed based upon meter readings obtained by the
municipality’s designated agent prior to billing. Such water usage billing and
any other charges, properly itemized, shall be due on the first day of each
month and shall be payable on or before the fifteenth day of each month. Bills
paid after the fifteenth day of each month shall be assessed an additional fee
in the amount of $5 per month while the bill remains unpaid to compensate the
municipality for estimated additional processing costs. Bills not paid by the
thirtieth day of each month after billing shall be deemed to be delinquent.
Upon being deemed to be delinquent, as herein defined, the Municipal Clerk
shall give a written notice to the customer of such delinquency and shall
demand payment immediately. In the event that the bill is not paid within seven
days after the sending of said notice, it shall be discretionary for the
municipality to cut off service at any time; provided, if the delinquent
customer is a known welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the Municipal
Clerk to notify the customer and the Department of Public Welfare by certified
mail of the proposed termination. The Municipal Clerk shall assess an
additional fee in the amount of $25 for a regular business hours reconnection
and $50 for a reconnection at any time other than regular business hours in the
event that water is shut off for the non-payment of any water bill, to
compensate the municipality for the additional hookup necessary to again
provide water service to the delinquent customer.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542, 70-1605
§ 52.13  LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rate obligation which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the
real estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in
writing or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their
agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in
payment of water bills. It shall be the duty of the designated representative
of the municipality on June 1 of each year to report to the governing body a
list of all unpaid accounts due for water together with a description of the
premises upon which the same was used. The report shall be examined, and if
approved by the governing body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to
the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by
law.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538
§ 52.14  SEPARATE PREMISES LIABILITY.
   Each separate premises located in the municipality must be connected to the
water service operated by the municipality and must be separately metered,
billed for water service, and will be subject to the minimum rates herein
referenced, unless the governing body shall hereafter establish a different
rate by ordinance for any situation not hereby provided for in accordance with
water usage. No consumer shall supply water to any other separate premises or
allow other consumers to take water from one separate premises to another, nor
after water is supplied to a separate premises shall any person make or employ
a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection with the pipe upon the
separate premises for alteration, extension or attachment without the express
permission of the governing body first had and obtained.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.15  RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or its designated representative may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.16  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17  MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   All persons within the municipality shall be required, upon notice by the
governing body, to hookup with the municipal water system.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-539
§ 52.18  WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, such
consumer shall inform the governing body or its designated representative of
the municipality who shall cause the water service to be shut off at such
premises. If the consumer should fail to give such notice, the consumer shall
be charged for all water used on such premises until the governing body or its
designated representative of the municipality is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.19  INSPECTION.
   The governing body or its duly authorized agents shall have free access, at
any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and building to, or in
which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes, fixtures and
other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or
unnecessary waste of water.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.20  POLICE REPORTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the designated law enforcement agency
performing police services for the Village Marshal to report to the governing
body or its designated representative all cases of leakage and waste in the use
of water and all violations of the municipal code relating to the Water
Department.
   (B)   Such law enforcement agency shall have the additional duty of
enforcing the observance of all such regulation.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 52.21  DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in the stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended
use of any such property without the written permission of the governing body
or its designated representative.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.22  LICENSED PLUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipefitter to do any work upon any
of the pipes or appurtenances of the municipal system of waterworks, or to make
any connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking
water from said system until such plumber or pipefitter shall have first
procured a license or permit from the municipality. All plumbing shall be done
in the manner required by the governing body or its designated representative.
A licensed plumber shall be required to perform all such work and shall at all
times be subject to the inspection and approval of the municipality’s
designated representative and it shall be unlawful to cover or conceal any
willfully defective or unsatisfactory plumbing work.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.23  DRILLING AND OPERATION OF WELLS AND OTHER UNDERGROUND FACILITIES OR
CONTAMINATING FACILITIES WITHOUT PERMIT UNLAWFUL.
   After May 7, 2002, it shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other
legal entity to drill and/or operate any of the following facilities within the
corporate limits of the village, and all adjacent areas located within one mile
of such corporate limits, without first having obtained a permit from the
Village Board of Trustees: potable water well; non-potable water well;
sandpoint well; sewage lagoon; absorption or disposal field for water;
cesspool; septic tank; dumping grounds; feedlot; livestock corral; chemical
product storage facility; petroleum product storage facility; pit toilet;
sanitary landfill; sewage treatment plant; or sewage wet well.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.24  PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   (A)   Should any person, corporation or other legal entity desire to obtain
a permit to drill and/or operate any of the facilities described in §
52.23, the owner of real property on which the proposed facility is to be
located, must complete and submit an application therefor to the Village Clerk
identifying the facility to be constructed and the location of such facility.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such application, it shall then be presented to the
Village Board of Trustees at the next regularly scheduled meeting, or special
meeting, during which it may be timely placed upon the agenda.
   (C)   Upon review of such application, the Village Board of Trustees shall
approve or deny such permit.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.25  DRILLING OR INSTALLATION OF OTHER FACILITIES WITHIN DESIGNATED
DISTANCE FROM MUNICIPAL WATER SOURCES PROHIBITED.
   Under no circumstances shall the Village Board approve any permit to drill
or operate any of the below described facilities within the indicated number of
feet from the village water wells:
Absorption or disposal field for water                              500 feet
All water wells, including, but not limited to, domestic supply
wells, irrigation wells, stock wells, sandpoint wells and heat pump 1,000 feet
wells
Cesspool                                                            500 feet
Chemical product storage facility                                   500 feet
Dumping grounds                                                     500 feet
Feedlot                                                             500 feet
Livestock corral                                                    500 feet
Petroleum product storage facility                                  500 feet
Pit toilet                                                          500 feet
Sanitary landfill                                                   500 feet
Septic tank                                                         500 feet
Sewage lagoon                                                       1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant                                              500 feet
Sewage wet well                                                     500 feet
 
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 52.26  PRIVATE DOMESTIC WATER WELLS NOT PART OF THE PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.
   Having determined that unregulated private domestic water wells within the
corporate limits of the village pose a serious and substantial risk of harm to
the public health of the residents of the village, from and after March 1,
2011, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any private domestic water
well within the corporate limits of the village, which is not in compliance
with the following requirements in addition to the other provisions of the
municipal code and state law.
   (A)   A PRIVATE DOMESTIC WATER WELL is defined as a well providing water to
any water supply system furnishing water for human consumption other than a
public water supply system.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation owning, maintaining or using any
private domestic water well within the corporate limits of the village shall
make, or cause to be made, and file with the Village Clerk a good and
sufficient bond payable to the village in the sum of $2,000 conditioned upon
full and complete compliance with the requirements of this section and other
provisions of the municipal code relating to private domestic water wells, and
conditioned upon the said person, firm or corporation safely plugging the said
well upon abandonment (or failure to comply with regulations concerning
operation) in full compliance with all current safety standards or provisions
of law in existence at that time. The bond shall be written by a corporate
surety licensed in the state, and in a form acceptable to the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Each calendar quarter every private domestic water well within the
corporate limits of the village shall be sampled and tested for each of the
contaminants for which public water supply systems are required to sample and
test under the State Department of Health Regulations Concerning Public Water
Supply Systems, 179 NAC 2, as amended from time to time. Sampling and testing
shall be done at the expense of the person, firm or corporation owning or
maintaining the private domestic water well. Sampling shall only be performed
by a person holding a current Grade V (or higher) Water Operator Certificate of
Competency from the State Department of Health. All testing shall be done by
laboratories approved by the State Department of Health for conducting tests of
water sampling for public water supply systems. Documentary proof of sampling
and testing shall be supplied to the Village Clerk immediately upon receipt.
   (D)   Each private domestic water well within the corporate limits of the
village shall have on file with the Village Clerk current proof of compliance
with the sampling and testing requirements. The results of testing shall show
conclusively that the water from such private domestic water well does not
contain any contaminant in excess of the maximum contaminant levels set by 179
NAC 2.
   (E)   Any private domestic water well failing to sample or test as required
herein, or failing to have on file current test results confirming that the
produced water does not exceed any of the maximum contaminant levels set in 179
NAC 2 is hereby declared to be a danger to public health, and a nuisance. Such
private domestic water well having failed to sample, test or file tests
satisfying water quality requirements herein required shall not be used in any
manner, for any purpose, until proof of compliance with the requirements of
sampling, testing and proof of absence of contamination shall have been
provided to the Village Clerk.
   (F)   The Village Board may declare any private domestic water well for
which a bond is not on file to secure financial responsibility as required
herein, or which is otherwise not in compliance with the requirements of the
municipal code, to be a nuisance, order the owner or operator to forthwith
cease using said private domestic water well, and to immediately submit proof
of compliance with the requirements of the municipal code. Upon failure of the
owner or operator of said private domestic water well to comply with these
provisions of the municipal code, any such well may be ordered to be plugged to
prevent any further use.
   (G)   In addition to any other remedies, the village may pursue a suit in
equity to enjoin the maintenance, use or operation of any private domestic
water well not in compliance with the municipal code, or seek a judicial order
requiring it to be plugged and no longer used.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27  WATER RATES.
   Monthly rates assessed and billed to users of water supplied by the village
to its consumers shall be as follows.
   (A)   Base rate. The applicable base rate applicable to each customer shall
be: $23 per month per three-quarter inch meter; $40.25 per month per one-inch
meter; $92 per month per one and one-half inch meter; $161 per month per two-
inch meter.
   (B)   Usage rate. In addition to assessment and billing allocable to the
base rate herein provided, each consumer shall also be assessed and billed for
water consumed at the rate of $1.50 per 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. 261, passed 2-8-2011)
WATER EMERGENCIES
§ 52.40  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the declaration of a water
supply watch, warning or emergency and the implementation of voluntary and
mandatory water conservation measures throughout the village in the event such
a watch, warning or emergency is declared.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 52.41  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLASSES OF USES.  The following classes of uses of water are established.
      (1)   Class 1: Water used for outdoor watering; either public or private,
for gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields,
swimming pools or other recreational areas; or the washing of motor vehicles,
boats, trailers or other exterior of any building or structure.
      (2)   Class 2: Water used for any commercial or industrial, including
agricultural, purposes: except water actually necessary to maintain the health
and personal hygiene of bona fide employees while such employees are engaged in
the performance of their duties at their place of employment.
      (3)   Class 3: Domestic usage, other than that which would be included in
either Classes 1 or 2.
      (4)   Class 4: Water necessary only to sustain human life and the lives
of domestic pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   CUSTOMER.  The customer of record using water for any purpose from the
village’s water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is
made or, in the case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of
delivery.
   WASTE OF WATER.  Includes, but is not limited to: permitting water to escape
down a gutter, ditch or other surface drain; or failure to repair a
controllable leak of water due to defective plumbing.
   WATER.  Water available to the village for treatment by virtue of its water
rights or any treated water introduced by the village into its water
distribution system, including water offered for sale at any coin-operated
site.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 52.42  DECLARATION OF WATER WATCH.
   Whenever the governing body of the village finds that conditions indicate
that the probability of a drought or some other condition causing a major water
supply shortage is rising, it shall be empowered to declare, by resolution,
that a water watch exists and that it shall take steps to inform the public and
ask for voluntary reductions in water use. Such a watch shall be deemed to
continue until it is declared by resolution of the governing body to have
ended. The resolutions declaring the existence and end of a water watch shall
be effective upon their publication in the official village newspaper.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.43  DECLARATION OF WATER WARNING.
   Whenever the governing body of the village finds that drought conditions or
some other condition causing a major water supply shortage are present and
supplies are starting to decline, it shall be empowered to declare by
resolution that a water warning exists and that it will recommend restrictions
on nonessential uses during the period of warning. Such a warning shall be
deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the governing body to
have ended. The resolutions declaring the beginning and ending of the water
warning shall be effective upon their publication in the official village
newspaper.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.44  DECLARATION OF WATER EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the governing body of the village finds that an emergency exists by
reason of a shortage of water supply needed for essential uses, it shall be
empowered to declare by resolution that a water supply emergency exists and
that it will impose mandatory restrictions on water use during the period of
the emergency. Such an emergency shall be deemed to continue until it is
declared by resolution to the governing body to have ended. The resolutions
declaring the existence and end of a water supply emergency shall be effective
upon their publication in the official village newspaper.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.45  VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water watch or water warning as provided in §§
52.42 and
52.43, the Chairperson of the Village Board is authorized to call on all water
consumers to employ voluntary water conservation measures to limit or eliminate
nonessential water uses including, but not limited to, limitations on the
following uses:
   (A)   Sprinkling of water on lawns, shrubs or trees (including golf
courses);
   (B)   Washing of automobiles;
   (C)   Use of water in swimming pools, fountains and evaporative air
conditioning systems; and
   (D)   Waste of water.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.46  MANDATORY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of water supply emergency as provided in §
52.44, the Chairperson of the Village Board is also authorized to implement
certain mandatory water conservation measures, including, but not limited to,
the following:
   (A)   Suspension of new connection to the village’s water distribution
system, except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to
agreements entered into by the village prior to the effective date of the
declaration of the emergency;
   (B)   Restrictions on the uses of water in one or more classes of water use,
wholly or in part;
   (C)   Restrictions on the sales of water at coin-operated facilities or
sites;
   (D)   The imposition of water rationing based on any reasonable formula
including, but not limited to, the percentage of normal use and per capita or
per consumer restrictions;
   (E)   Complete or partial bans on the waste of water; and
   (F)   Any combination of the foregoing measures.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 52.47  EMERGENCY WATER RATES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
52.44, the governing body of the village shall have the power to adopt
emergency water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies. Such
emergency rates may provide for, but are not limited to: higher charges for
increasing usage per unit of use (increasing block rates); uniform charges for
water usage per unit of use (uniform unit rate); or extra charges in excess of
a specified level of water use (excess demand surcharge).
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.48  REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply emergency as provided for in
§
52.44, the Chairperson of the Village Board is empowered to promulgate such
regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter,
any water supply emergency resolution or emergency water rate ordinance. Such
regulations shall be subject to the approval of the governing body at its next
regular or special meeting.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.49  EMERGENCY TERMINATION.
   Nothing in §§
52.25 through
52.48 shall limit the ability of any properly authorized village official from
terminating the supply of water to any or all customers upon the determination
of such village official that emergency termination of water service is
required to protect the health and safety of the public.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any regulated facilities described in §
52.23 installed or operated without first having obtained a permit from the
Village Board of Trustees shall be deemed a nuisance and the village shall
proceed to abate such facility in accordance with §§
92.27 or
130.29. In addition thereto, any person violating any of the terms of §
52.23 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-126)
   (B)   (1)   If the Chairperson of the Village Board, Water Superintendent or
other village official or officials charged with implementation and enforcement
of these provisions or a water supply emergency resolution learn of any
violation of any water use restrictions imposed pursuant to §§
52.46 through
52.48, a written notice of the violation shall be affixed to the property where
the violation occurred and the customer of record and any other person known to
the village who is responsible for the violation or its correction shall be
provided with either actual or mailed notice. Said notice shall describe the
violation and order that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within
such specified time as the village determines is reasonable under the
circumstances. If the order is not complied with, the village may terminate
water service to the customer subject to the following procedures:
         (a)   The village shall give the customer notice by mail or actual
notice that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to
the violation and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the village governing body
or a village official designated as a hearing officer by the governing body;
         (b)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered; and
         (c)   The governing body or hearing officer shall make findings of
fact and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
      (2)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water
service terminated pursuant to division (B)(1) above. In the event of
subsequent violations, the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second
reconnection fee and $300 for any additional reconnections.
      (3)   Violations of §§
52.40 through
52.49 shall be a municipal offense and may be prosecuted in county court. Any
person so charged and found guilty in county court of violating the provisions
of any of these provisions shall be guilty of a municipal offense. Each day’s
violation shall constitute a separated offense. The penalty of an initial
violation shall be a mandatory fine of $100. The penalty for a second or
subsequent conviction shall be mandatory fine of not less than $200 nor more
than $500.
(Prior Code, § 3-136)
(Ord. 260, passed 2-8-2011)
CHAPTER 53:  SEWER
Section
   
53.01   Operation and funding
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Application for permit
   
53.04   Sewer contract
   
53.05   Mandatory hookup
   
53.06   Direct connections
   
53.07   Service contracts
   
53.08   Installation procedure
   
53.09   Installation expense
   
53.10   Repairs and replacement
   
53.11   Rate setting
   
53.12   Sewer rental bills
   
53.13   Unlawful use
   
53.14   Special equipment
   
53.15   Grease, oil and sand interceptors; when required
   
53.16   Lien
   
53.17   Complaints
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management and maintenance of the municipal sewer system, may each year levy a
tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits
that is subject to taxation.
   (C)   The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Sewer Maintenance
Fund.
   (D)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of
his or her office.
   (E)   He or she shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
the sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject to the
supervision and review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574, 17-925.01
§ 53.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING SEWER and HOUSE SEWER.  Includes the part of a house or building
drainage system extending from the house or building drain to its connection
with the main sewer.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   SANITARY SEWER.  Includes a sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE.  Includes a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with
such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage as included in Sanitary Sewer District No. 1 of the Village
of Alda, Nebraska.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The authorized village agent responsible for the operation,
repair and maintenance of the sewage works.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 53.03  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   The application for sewer service shall be a combined application for
water service, sewer service and building permit.
   (C)   The entire application is submitted and approved as provided in §
52.03.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 53.04  SEWER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The municipality, through the Municipal Sewer Department, shall
furnish sewer services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises
abut a street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be
laid.
   (B)   The rules, regulations and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in
this chapter, shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made
for sewer service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
customer now or hereafter served.
   (C)   Without further formality, the making of the application on the part
of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers thereof shall
constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality to which said
contract both parties are bound.
   (D)   If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract
or any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter
adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or his or her agent, may cut off or
disconnect the sewer service from the building or premises of such violation.
   (E)   No further connection for sewer service to said building or premises
shall again be made save or except by order of the Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05  MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   Upon written notice by the Utilities Superintendent, the property owner,
occupant or lessee of any premises within the corporate limits shall, without
delay, cause the said building to be connected with the sewer system and
equipped with inside sewerage facilities. Every building hereafter erected
shall be connected with the sewer system at the time of its construction. In
the event that any property owner, occupant or lessee shall neglect, fail or
refuse, within a period of ten days after notice has been given to him or her
to do so by registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of general
circulation in the municipality, to make such connection, the governing body
shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to assess the cost thereof
against the property, and to collect the assessment thus made in the manner
provided for collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574, 17-575
§ 53.06  DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building must make a direct connection with the main sewer
line. Under no circumstances will two or more houses be allowed to make such
connections through one pipe.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
§ 53.07  SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
sewer service to be shut off from the said premises. If the customer should
fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until
the official in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
§ 53.08  INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant or lessee of the property. All installations or repairs of
pipes require two inspections by the Utilities Superintendent. The first
inspection shall be made when connections or repairs are complete and before
the pipes are covered. The second inspection shall be made after the dirt work
is completed and the service restored. It is the customer’s responsibility to
notify the Utilities Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each
inspection. All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly
in accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications for such
installation prescribed by the Utilities Superintendent; provided, that the
said rules, regulations and specifications have been reviewed and approved by
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-208)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09  INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval  of  his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the Municipal Clerk a one time $100 hookup fee at the time service
is supplied. The Utilities Superintendent, in his or her discretion, may direct
the customer to hire a licensed plumber to tap the main. The customer shall
then be required to pay the expense of procuring the materials required as well
as the services of a licensed plumber and shall pay all other costs of
installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-209)
§ 53.10  REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property
which is within the municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains
to repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and
is broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner’s duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such connection.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)  (Ord. 113, passed 12-4-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 53.11  RATE SETTING.
   Customers of the Municipal Sewer Department shall be charged a flat rate for
the use of sewer service. Rates shall be set by ordinance and shall be on file
at the office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(Prior Code, § 3-211)
§ 53.12  SEWER RENTAL BILLS.
   Sewer rental bills shall be due and payable with the water bill, quarterly
at the office of the Municipal Clerk. All the provisions of §
52.10 concerning due dates and delinquency of water bills apply to sewer bills.
(Prior Code, § 3-212)
§ 53.13  UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, surface
drainage or unpolluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into the
municipal sewer system:
      (1)   Liquids or vapors having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Sand, mud, metal, rags, paper or other solid or viscous substance
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the sewer system;
      (6)   Toxic or poisonous substances in sufficient quantity to interfere
with or injure the sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans,
animals or fish, or create any hazard in the receiving area of the sewage
treatment plant;
      (7)   Suspended solids of such character and quantity that unusual
attention or expense is required to handle such materials; or
      (8)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having other corrosive properties capable of causing damage to the structures,
equipment and personnel of the Municipal Sewer Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-213)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.14  SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department discharges an
unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount of grease or
oil, or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand, the chief sewer
official may require the said customer to install interceptors or other
preliminary treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of
the waste to within such maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe subject to
the review of the governing body. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be
purchased and maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation
at the customer’s expense. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a
special agreement or arrangement between the governing body and an industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the municipality for treatment subject to additional rental fees or
other charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-214)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.15  GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining
of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms.
(Prior Code, § 3-215)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.16  LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for sewer service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which
the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to
be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of sewer rent.
It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on June 1 of each year to
report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for sewer
service together with a description of the premises served. The report shall be
examined, and if approved by the governing body, shall be certified by the
Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-216)  Penalty, see §
53.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 53.17  COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Utilities Superintendent may appear before the governing
body and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or
herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of
the sewer, or for the resumption of sewer service after the same shall have
been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the
Municipal Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words, “Paid
Under Protest.” Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the governing body for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the
governing body in the same manner as other claims against the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-217)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
CHAPTER 54:  BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
54.01   Prevention; definitions
   
54.02   Cross-connection control policy
   
54.03   Cross-connections prohibited
   
54.04   Surveys and investigations
   
54.05   Where protection is required
   
54.06   Backflow prevention devices
   
54.07   Installation of backflow prevention devices
   
54.08   Maintenance and testing
   
54.09   Authority to implement compliance
   
54.10   Appeals
   
54.11   Nuisance
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01  PREVENTION; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION.  The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle, and shall be a minimum of one inch but not less than two times the
diameter of the effective spout opening when not affected by side walls, and
three times the diameter of the effective spout opening when affected by side
walls. Side walls will be assumed to not affect air gaps when they are spaced
horizontally a distance greater than four times the effective opening from the
spout opening.
   APPROVED TESTER.  A person qualified to make inspections; to test and repair
backflow prevention/cross-connection control devices; and who is approved by
the village.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY.  Any water source or system, other than the village,
that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW.  The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases, used water or substances into the distribution system
of a public water supply system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.  Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into the public water supply system.
   CONSUMER.  Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation or agency or his,
her, its or their authorized agent, receiving water from the village.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM.  All service pipe, all distribution piping and all
appurtenances beyond the service meter of the public water system.
   CONTAMINATION.  An introduction of any sewage, process fluids, chemicals,
wastes or any other substance that would be objectionable. CONTAMINATION may be
a threat to life or health, or may cause an aesthetic deterioration, color,
taste or odor.
   CROSS-CONNECTION.  Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water of the
public water system, and, the second, water of unknown or questionable safety,
or steam, gases, chemicals or substances whereby there may be backflow from the
second system to the public water supply system. No physical CROSS- CONNECTION
shall be permitted between a public water supply system and an auxiliary water
supply system.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD.  An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon anyone using the water.
   HEALTH HAZARD.  Any condition, device or practice in the public water supply
system which could create or may create a danger to the health and well-being
of anyone using the water or allow contamination of the public water system.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.  The public water system and the consumers’
water systems.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.  The water supply source, distribution system and
appurtenances to the service meter operated as a public utility which supplies
potable water to the consumers’ water systems.
   SERVICE CONNECTION.  The terminal end of the service line from the public
water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the
SERVICE CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
(Prior Code, § 4-401)
§ 54.02  CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL POLICY.
   The policy of the village applicable to cross-connections and backflow in
respect to the public water supply system is as follows.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is:
      (1)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination;
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation or control of
cross-connection between the public water supply system and nonpotable water
systems, plumbing fixtures and industrial process systems or other systems
which introduce or may introduce contaminants into the public water system or
the consumer’s water system; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination of the public water
supply system.
   (B)   Application. This chapter shall apply to all consumers’ water systems.
   (C)   Intent. This policy will be interpreted in a manner such that whenever
judgment is required to be exercised by the village or its authorized
representative, any decision, interpretation or judgment shall be in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, and any other applicable provisions of the
municipal code, and state and federal laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-402)
§ 54.03  CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any premises
where actual or potential cross-connections to the public water supply system
may exist unless such actual or potential cross-connections are abated or
controlled to the satisfaction of its authorized representative in accordance
with applicable standards imposed by the State Department of Health. In any
event, no connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public water supply system.
(Prior Code, § 4-403)
§ 54.04  SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   In order to evaluate the public water supply system and to assure compliance
with the requirements of this chapter, all consumers shall be subject to the
following provisions.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
village, or its authorized representative, for the purpose of conducting
surveys and investigations of water use practices within the consumer’s
premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-connections
in the consumer’s water system. In order to inspect a premises, the village, or
its authorized representative, shall give notice setting forth a proposed date
and time to the customer at least ten working days in advance by first class
mail. If the customer cannot make the premises available for inspection on that
date and time, the customer shall contact the Village Clerk or Utilities
Superintendent to arrange another date and time for inspection. If the village,
or its authorized representative, cannot agree on a date and time for
inspection, the premises shall be declared impossible or impractical to make a
cross-connection survey and an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed pursuant to §
54.07.
   (B)   On request by the village, or its authorized representative, the
consumer shall furnish requested information on water use practices within the
consumer’s premises and in the consumer’s water system.
   (C)   On request by the village, or its authorized representative, the
consumer shall conduct periodic surveys of water use practices on the premises
of the consumer’s water system to determine whether there are actual or
potential cross-connections. The consumer shall provide the survey results to
the village, or its authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 4-404)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.05  WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   In certain instances, backflow protection is required by the very
nature of the use to which the public water system is connected.
   (B)   Connections to which backflow protection is required are as hereafter
identified.
      (1)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where, in the
judgment of the village, its authorized representative or the State Department
of Health, actual or potential cross-connections exist. The type and degree of
protection required shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard and/or type
of contamination that may enter the public water supply system.
      (2)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or
within any premises where, in the judgment of the village, its authorized
representative or the State Department of Health, the nature and extent of
activities on the premises, or the materials used in connection with the
activities, or materials stored on the premises, would present a health hazard
or contamination of the public water supply system from a cross- connection.
This includes, but is not limited to, the following situations:
         (a)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is acceptable to the village, its authorized
representative or the State Department of Health;
         (b)   Premises having internal plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist;
         (c)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspection for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross-connections do not exist;
         (d)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished;
         (e)   Premises which, due to the nature of the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion;
         (f)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as
to permit entry into the public water supply system or where a cross-connection
could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of
process waters and cooling waters; and
         (g)   Premises where toxic or hazardous materials are handled.
      (3)   The following types of facilities fall into one or more of the
categories or premises where an approved air gap separation or reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device may be required by the village, its
authorized representative or the State Department of Health, to protect the
public water supply and must be installed at these facilities unless all
hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated or corrected
by other methods to the satisfaction of the village, or its authorized
representative, and the State Department of Health:
         (a)   Agricultural chemical facilities;
         (b)   Auxiliary water systems, wells;
         (c)   Boilers;
         (d)   Bulk water loading facilities;
         (e)   Car washes, automobile servicing facilities;
         (f)   Chemical manufacturing, processing, compounding or treatment
plants;
         (g)   Chill water systems;
         (h)   Feedlots;
         (i)   Fire protection systems;
         (j)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites;
         (k)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics or others as discovered by
sanitary surveys;
         (l)   Lawn irrigation systems and swimming pools;
         (m)   Laundries and dry cleaning;
         (n)   Meat processing facilities;
         (o)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, processing and fabricating
plants;
         (p)   Oil and gas production, refining, storage or transmission
properties;
         (q)   Plating plants;
         (r)   Power plants;
         (s)   Research and analytical laboratories;
         (t)   Sewage and storm drainage facilities; pumping stations and
treatment plants;
         (u)   Veterinary clinics; and
         (v)   All other facilities or connections identified in applicable
regulations adopted by the State Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 4-405)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.06  BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any backflow prevention devices required by this chapter shall be of a model
or construction approved by the village, or its representative, and the State
Department of Health. Applicable standards in respect to such devices shall be
as follows.
   (A)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least twice the diameter
of the supply pipe, measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel, but in
no case less than one inch or such greater separation as may be required by
regulations adopted by the State Department of Health.
   (B)   Double check valve assemblies or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention devices shall appear on the current list of approved backflow
prevention devices established by the State Department of Health, unless the
device was installed at the time of the enactment of this chapter and complies
with required inspection and maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 4-406)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.07  INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of the adoption of this chapter, all
new construction and repair or replacement of existing plumbing installations
shall require installation of approved backflow devices in respect to
connections to the public water supply system which pose a hazard for
contamination of the public water supply system. Additionally, the consumer in
respect to existing connections on the effective date of the adoption of this
chapter, at the consumer’s expense unless the village shall otherwise agree,
must obtain an approved backflow device if required by the village, or its
representative, within 90 days of the receipt of notice of required
installation. The date by which installation of backflow prevention devices in
respect to existing connections shall be accomplished may by resolution be
established by the Village Board and shall correspond with guidelines permitted
by the State Department of Health and applicable federal regulations after
analysis of the results of cross-connection surveys, inquiries and inspections
are available to the village in accord with the provisions of §
54.04.
   (B)   Such approved backflow device shall thereupon be installed in the
following manner.
      (1)   Backflow prevention devices required by this chapter shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the village, or its
authorized representative. All such devices shall be installed at the expense
of the consumer, unless the village shall otherwise agree.
      (2)   Backflow prevention devices installed at the service connection
shall be located on the consumer’s side of the water meter, as close to the
meter as is reasonably practical and prior to any other connections.
      (3)   Backflow prevention devices shall be conveniently accessible for
maintenance and testing, protected from freezing and where no part of the
device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid. All devices shall
be installed according to manufacturers’ recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 4-407)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.08  MAINTENANCE AND TESTING.
   Backflow prevention devices shall be maintained in good working condition by
the customer at the customer’s expense. Backflow prevention devices designed to
be tested shall be tested for proper operation annually or when necessary in
the opinion of the village, or its authorized representative. Actual testing
shall be at the expense of the consumer, unless the village shall otherwise by
proper resolution determine. If testing shall require entry into the premises,
the village, or its authorized representative, shall give notice setting forth
a proposed date and time to the customer at least ten working days in advance
by first class mail. If the customer cannot make the premises available for
inspection on that date and time, the customer shall contact the village, or
its authorized representative, to arrange another date and time.
(Prior Code, § 4-408)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.09  AUTHORITY TO IMPLEMENT COMPLIANCE.
   The village, or its authorized representative, shall have the authority to
issue any order consistent with the provisions of this chapter to in order to
protect the public health and safety. Any order of the village, or its
authorized representative, shall be in writing and shall clearly state the
nature of the order and the compliance requirements and set a reasonable date
by which compliance must be met. All orders will be mailed to the customer by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
(Prior Code, § 4-409)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.10  APPEALS.
   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this
chapter has been wrongfully interpreted by the village, or its authorized
representative; that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the
village, or its authorized representative, is too short in duration; or that
conditions peculiar to a particular premises make it unreasonably difficult to
meet the literal requirements prescribed by this chapter, the customer may file
a written notice of appeal with the Village Clerk within ten days after the
decision or order of the village, or its authorized representative, has been
made. The governing body shall hear all appeals and shall have the power and
authority, when appealed to, to modify its decision or order, or the decision
or order of its authorized representatives. Such a decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved party may have at law or equity.
Appeals shall be in writing and shall state the reason for the appeal and shall
be filed with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-411)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.11  NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-502)  Penalty, see §
54.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event of a failure of the customer to comply with the
requirements of this chapter, the following penalties and actions shall be
applicable:
      (1)   The village, or its authorized representative, shall deny or
discontinue the water service to any premises or any consumer wherein any
backflow prevention device required by this chapter and policy is not
installed, tested and maintained in a manner acceptable to the village, or its
authorized representative, or if it is found that the backflow prevention
device has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection
exists.
      (2)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer is in compliance with this chapter to the satisfaction of the village,
or its authorized representative.
      (3)   Any person or consumer who shall violate or refuse to comply with
the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than
$100 for each offense and the costs of prosecution. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 4-410)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 4-501)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   OPERATOR AND VEHICLE QUALIFICATIONS
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Truck routes
   
70.03   Signs, signals
   
70.04   Stop signs
   
70.05   Turning; U-turns
   
70.06   Turning generally
   
70.07   Turning; hand signals
   
70.08   Right-of-way
Prohibitions and Enforcement
   
70.20   Littering
   
70.21   Glass, pointed objects
   
70.22   Signs; defacing or interfering with
   
70.23   Speed limits
   
70.24   Speed near schools
   
70.25   Reckless driving
   
70.26   Reckless driving; willful
   
70.27   Careless driving
   
70.28   Backing
   
70.29   Unnecessary stopping
   
70.30   Passing; intersections, no passing zones
   
70.31   Passing; hindrance
   
70.32   Driving abreast
   
70.33   Following; fire apparatus
   
70.34   Crowding; front seat
   
70.35   Riding; outside vehicle
   
70.36   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
70.37   Driving in sidewalk space
   
70.38   Emergency regulations
   
70.39   Police; refusal to obey
   
70.40   Unnecessary noise
   
70.41   Traffic citations; forms and records
   
70.42   Citations; disposition and records
   
70.43   Traffic citations; illegal cancellation
   
70.44   Following; distance
   
70.45   Impeding traffic
   
70.46   Racing on highways
   
70.47   Opening and closing vehicle doors; restriction
   
70.48   Child passenger restraint system
   
70.49   Signs, traffic-control devices, traffic surveillance devices; defacing
or interfering with
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Chapter 60,
Article 6, as now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the
designated statutes, the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
(Prior Code, § 5-101)  (Ord. 198, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676
§ 70.02  TRUCK ROUTES.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through, or about the municipality. The governing
body shall cause notices to be posted, or shall erect signs indicating the
streets so designated as truck routes.
(Prior Code, § 5-102)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-681
§ 70.03  SIGNS, SIGNALS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs, or other signs, signals, standards or mechanical devices in any street
or alley under the municipality’s jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating,
or prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of
the street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the
regulation or prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or
mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with such regulation, or prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-103)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 through 60-6,121, 60-680
§ 70.04  STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop
sign erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause
such vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway or railroad crossing.
   (B)   The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop line, or, if there is
no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if neither is indicated, then
as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting roadway as possible.
(Prior Code, § 5-104)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 through 60-6,121, 60-6,148, 60-680
§ 70.05  TURNING; U-TURNS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
at any intersection where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5-105)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,160, 60-680
§ 70.06  TURNING GENERALLY.
   (A)   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall
approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand
side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as
possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall approach
such centerline of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as possible
to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable to the
right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purposes of this
section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall mean the meeting point of the
medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(Prior Code, § 5-106)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,159
§ 70.07  TURNING; HAND SIGNALS.
   (A)   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle
before turning.
   (B)   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm, or by a signal device of a type approved by the Department of Roads.
   (C)   The hand and arm signals herein required shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner: stop or decreased speed: hand and
arm extended downward; left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally; right
turn: hand and arm extended upward.
(Prior Code, § 5-107)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,161 through 60-6,163
§ 70.08  RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a municipal police
officer stationed at the intersection.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection, or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way to
a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked crosswalk, or at
any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian
crossing, crosswalk or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles
upon the street.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley, building,
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
approaching on any sidewalk.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle entering a municipal street from a private
road or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
streets.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-of-way to
authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(Prior Code, § 5-108)  (Ord. 199, passed 1-9-1996)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,146 through 60-6,154
PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.20  LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street or alley, except at places designated by the
governing body, any rubbish, debris or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering.
(Prior Code, § 5-201)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-311
§ 70.21  GLASS, POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay or place upon any street any thorns, nails,
tacks, glass, bottles, window glass or other articles made of, or containing,
glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass upon any
street, the owner or person in charge of such glass, or the person responsible
for such breakage, shall at once remove, or cause the same to be removed, from
the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-202)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-311
§ 70.22  SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,129
§ 70.23  SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any highway, street, alley or
other place located within the corporate limits of the village at a rate of
speed greater than 20 mph, except that no person may operate a motor vehicle
upon Saturn Street at a speed greater than 30 mph, and except that no person
may operate a motor vehicle upon Apollo Street at a speed greater than 30 mph,
and except that no person may operate a motor vehicle upon Highway 30 at a rate
of speed greater than 45 mph, and except that no person may operate a motor
vehicle upon the road lying partially within the corporate limits of the
village which abuts the southern boundary of the corporate limits of the
village at a rate of speed greater than 50 mph, unless a different rate of
speed is specifically permitted by ordinance. In no instance shall a person
drive a vehicle upon a highway, street, alley or other place located within the
corporate limits of the village at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions. Where a different maximum speed is set by
ordinance, appropriate signs shall be posted.
(Prior Code, § 5-204)  (Ord. 154, passed 7-2-1991; Ord. 161, passed 2-2-1993) 
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,186, 60-6,190
§ 70.24  SPEED NEAR SCHOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises on
which school buildings are located, and which are used for school purposes,
during school recess, or while children are going to, or leaving school during
the opening or closing hours to drive such vehicle at a rate of speed in excess
of 15 mph past such premises, and such driver shall stop at all stop signs
located at, or near, such school premises, and it shall be unlawful for such
driver to make a U-turn at any intersection where such stop signs are located
at, or near, such school premises.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,190
§ 70.25  RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving, and as such shall be punished as
provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-207)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-4,182, 60-6,213, 60-6,215
§ 70.26  RECKLESS DRIVING; WILLFUL.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
willful disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be deemed to be
guilty of willful, reckless driving and shall be punished as provided by
statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-208)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,214, 60-6,216, 60-6,217
§ 70.27  CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in this municipality carelessly or
without due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of
careless driving.
(Prior Code, § 5-209)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,212
§ 70.28  BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the municipal
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half lengths of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-210)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,169, 60-680
§ 70.29  UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic control devices and
regulations, or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-211)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166, 60-680
§ 70.30  PASSING; INTERSECTIONS, NO PASSING ZONES.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, while traversing a street intersection, or a
designated no passing zone, if such passing requires such overtaking vehicle to
drive to the left of the center of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-212)
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,136, 60-6,137
§ 70.31  PASSING; HINDRANCE.
   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until completely passed by
the overtaking vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-213)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,133
§ 70.32  DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing, or
when traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, motorcycles may be
driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Prior Code, § 5-214)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,139, 60-6,308
§ 70.33  FOLLOWING; FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into, or park such
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm.
(Prior Code, § 5-215)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,183
§ 70.34  CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there is
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with
the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-216)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,179
§ 70.35  RIDING; OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top or fenders of any motor vehicle, nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top or fenders of any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-217)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,179, 60-680
§ 70.36  CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy
vehicle shall attach himself or herself or the bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
sled, skis or toy vehicle to any vehicle upon a roadway, and it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person riding
upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy vehicle to cling or
attach himself or herself or the bicycle to such vehicle driven and operated by
him or her.
(Prior Code, § 5-218)  (Ord. 200, passed 1-9-1996)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,316
§ 70.37  DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle or livestock shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk
space, except a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 5-219)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,178
§ 70.38  EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Village Marshal is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 5-220)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. 81-2005
§ 70.39  POLICE; REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with, any
lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-221)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,110, 60-680
§ 70.40  UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   No driver of any vehicle shall make any unnecessary noise or sound the
horn, or other warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency and it
shall also be unlawful:
      (1)   To operate any motor vehicle so as to cause excessive engine noise
or squealing of tires; or
      (2)   To use dynamic or engine brakes, except to avert imminent danger,
within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   As referenced herein, DYNAMIC OR ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined as a
device which when activated retards one or more pistons on the engine of a
truck or other motor vehicle in order to assist the truck or motor vehicle in
braking and in the process of doing so creates a loud and offensive noise from
the truck or motor vehicle.
   (C)   The village is hereby authorized to direct installation of appropriate
signs which shall state “Engine Braking Prohibited” at such locations as may be
determined appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 5-222)  (Ord. 294, passed 11-6-2018)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.41  TRAFFIC CITATIONS; FORM AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall provide, in appropriate form, traffic
citations containing notices to appear.
      (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall be responsible for the issuance of such
books, and shall maintain a record of every such book, and each citation number
therein issued to the municipal police.
      (2)   The Clerk shall require and retain a receipt for every book so
issued.
      (3)   The Municipal Clerk shall require the return of all copies of every
traffic citation which has been spoiled, or upon which any entry has been made,
and not issued to an alleged violator.
   (B)   All records of traffic citations required herein shall be audited at
least biennially by a member of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-223)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.42  CITATIONS: DISPOSITION AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Village Marshal upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of this chapter shall deposit a copy of the traffic
citation with the County Attorney, unless the citation is just a warning.
   (B)   Upon the deposit of the traffic citation with the Attorney, such
citation may be disposed of only by trial in said court, or other official
action by the judge of the court, including a forfeiture of bail, or by the
deposit of sufficient bail with, or payment of a fine to the court by the
person to whom such traffic citation has been issued.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the Village Marshal to dispose of a traffic
citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the issuance of the same in a
manner other than as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-224)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-422, 29-424
§ 70.43  TRAFFIC CITATION; ILLEGAL CANCELLATION.
   Any person who cancels, or solicits the cancellation of any traffic citation
in any manner other than as provided herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5-225)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.44  FOLLOWING; DISTANCE.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of the vehicles, and
the traffic and condition of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-226)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,140
§ 70.45  IMPEDING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(Prior Code, § 5-227)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,193
§ 70.46  RACING ON HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall drive any vehicle on any highway in any race, speed
competition or contest, drag race or acceleration contest, test of physical
endurance, exhibition of speed or acceleration, or for the purpose of making a
speed record, and no person shall in any manner participate in any such race,
competition, contest, test or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-228)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,195
§ 70.47  OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS; RESTRICTION.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so and it can be
done without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic
for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload property or
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 5-229)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,180
§ 70.48  CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any person driving any motor vehicle which has or is required to have
seat safety belts, shall ensure that all children under the age of four being
transported in such vehicle use a child restraint system, of a type which meets
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by the Highway Safety
Administration as of August 26, 1983, or use a seat safety belt for children
over age one; provided, however, this section does not apply to taxicabs,
mopeds, motorcycles and any other vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a
1963 year model or earlier which is not equipped with a seat safety belt.
   (B)   Whenever any physician licensed to practice medicine in the state
determines through accepted medical procedures, that use of a child passenger
restraint system by a particular child would be harmful by reason of the
child’s weight, physical condition or other medical reason, the provisions of
division (A) above shall be waived. The driver of any vehicle transporting such
a child shall carry on his or her person or in the vehicle a signed written
statement of the physical identifying the child and stating the grounds for
such waiver.
   (C)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles as defined in Neb. RS 39-
610, shall not be subject to the requirements of division (A) above when
operating such authorized emergency vehicles pursuant to their employment.
(Prior Code, § 5-230)  (Ord. 127, passed 11-5-1985)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,267
§ 70.49  SIGNS, TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES, TRAFFIC SURVEILLANCE DEVICES; DEFACING
OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously deface,
injure, remove, obstruct, knock down or interfere with any official traffic
sign or signal, traffic control device, or traffic control surveillance device.
(Prior Code, § 5-232)  (Ord. 166, passed 4-6-1993)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,129, 60-6,130
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 5-701)
   (B)   (1)   A person violating any provision of §
70.48(A) shall be guilty of an infraction as defined in Neb. RS 29-431 and
shall be fined $25 for each violation, it being deemed that the failure to
provide a child restraint system for more than one child in the same vehicle at
the same time, as required in §
70.48(A), shall not be treated as a separate offense. Further, any person who
is charged with a violation of §
70.48(A) who does not have in his or her possession a child restraint system
meeting the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as of
August 26, 1983, and who subsequently purchases or rent for a one-year period
such a system prior to his or her court appearance, shall, upon presentation of
proof of purchase or proof of rental for a one-year period of such a system, be
able to utilize such presentation as an absolute defense and cause for
dismissal of such charge.
      (2)   A person who has acquired the statement authorized by §
70.48(B), but fails to show an officer such statement when requested to do so,
shall be guilty of an infraction as defined in Neb. RS 29-431 and shall be
fined $10 for each offense, it being deemed that the failure to produce a
statement for more than one child in the same vehicle at the same time not be
treated as a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-231)  (Ord. 127, passed 11-5-1985)
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,268
CHAPTER 71:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Mini-Bikes and All-Terrain Vehicles
   
71.01   Unlawful operation
   
71.02   Emergencies and parades
   
71.03   Public lands
Snowmobiles
   
71.15   Equipment
   
71.16   Unlawful acts
   
71.17   Public lands
 
   
71.99   Penalty
MINI-BIKES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 71.01  UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any
street or highway within the corporate limits of the municipality. For purposes
of this subchapter, MINIBIKE shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which as a
total wheel and tire diameter of less than 14 inches or an engine rated
capacity of less than 45 cubic centimeters displacement or any other two-wheel
motor vehicle primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-road use only; and
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE shall mean any three-wheeled motor vehicle which is
designed by the manufacturer for on- and off-road used over all types of
terrain.
   (B)   Minibikes, their owners, and their operators shall be exempt from the
requirements of the Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act and the Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)  (Ord. 247, passed 9-5-2006)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,347, 60-6,352
§ 71.02  EMERGENCIES AND PARADES.
   Minibikes and all-terrain vehicles shall be exempt from the provisions of
this subchapter during any public emergency or while being used in parades by
regularly organized units of any recognized charitable, social, educational or
community service organization.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,348
§ 71.03  PUBLIC LANDS.
   Minibikes and all-terrain vehicles shall be prohibited upon the public lands
owned by the municipality except where allowed by resolution of the governing
body.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-678
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.15  EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every snowmobile operated within the municipality shall be registered
with the state, as required by law. No snowmobile shall be operated upon a
public street or highway unless it is equipped with at least one head lamp, one
tail lamp, reflector material of a minimum area of 16 square inches mounted on
each side forward of the handle bars, and with brakes as prescribed by the
Director of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   All laws applying to the operation of other motor vehicles shall apply
to snowmobiles, except those relating to required equipment and those which, by
their nature, have no application.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,335
§ 71.16  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to allow a snowmobile,
either owned or operated by him or her, to be operated:
   (A)   Within the congested area of the municipality unless weather
conditions are such that it provides the only practicable method of safe
vehicular travel, or said snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency;
   (B)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
   (C)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger person
or property;
   (D)   Without a lighted headlight and tail light when such would be required
by conditions;
   (E)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock; or
   (F)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of the
owner, lessee or operator of such lands.
(Prior Code, § 5-402)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,335, 60-6,337
§ 71.17  PUBLIC LANDS.
   Snowmobiles shall be prohibited from operation on the public lands owned by
the municipality, except where allowed by resolution of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-403)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,338
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any peace officer, including a conservation officer, may enforce the
provisions relating to snowmobiles. Any person convicted of violating any rule
or regulation dealing with snowmobiles shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $100.
(Prior Code, § 5-404)
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,343
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Areas
   
72.02   Two-lane street
   
72.03   Obstructing alley
   
72.04   Fire hydrants and stations
   
72.05   Street intersections
   
72.06   Obstructing traffic
   
72.07   Curb
   
72.08   Maximum time limit
   
72.09   Emergency vehicles
   
72.10   Trucks prohibited in residential areas
   
72.11   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01  AREAS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public
way or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of
vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.02  TWO-LANE STREET.
   No vehicle shall park on the paved portion of any two-lane street. Such two-
lane street shall remain free of obstructions and impediments to traffic at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 5-502)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.03  OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(Prior Code, § 5-503)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.04  FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station.
(Prior Code, § 5-504)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 72.05  STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines, or if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines.
(Prior Code, § 5-505)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 72.06  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(Prior Code, § 5-506)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.07  CURB.
   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the edge of the
roadway or curb, unless said street has been designated to be a “one-way”
street by the governing body. Vehicles must not be parked in such a position as
to prevent another vehicle already parked from moving away.
(Prior Code, § 5-507)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,167
§ 72.08  MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street in the residential area
for over 24 consecutive hours is unlawful, and parking on the north side of
Highway 30 for more than one hour is also unlawful, except where a different
maximum time limit is posted.
(Prior Code, § 5-508)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.09  EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in
this chapter, while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an
emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-509)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,114
§ 72.10  TRUCKS PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or allow to remain parked any
truck within the residential areas of the municipality; provided, however, this
prohibition shall not apply to any truck so parked for the purpose of loading
or unloading freight, but only for the length of time it takes to so load or
unload the said truck.
(Prior Code, § 5-510)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.11  REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such
individual may remove or have such vehicle removed, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle, to a position off
the roadway of such street or alley or from such street or alley.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of such
vehicle may be charged with the reasonable cost for such removal and storage,
payable before such vehicle is released. Any such towing or storage fee shall
become a security interest in the vehicle prior to all other claims. This fee
shall be in addition to any other fees or penalties owed the municipality for
such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-511)  (Ord. 115, passed 12-4-1984)
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,165
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 5-701)
CHAPTER 73:  OPERATOR AND VEHICLE QUALIFICATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Registration; operator and vehicle license
   
73.02   Operator’s license; duty to carry and exhibit
   
73.03   Operator’s license; unlawful acts
   
73.04   Trailers
   
73.05   Vehicle license; required, unlawful display
   
73.06   Equipment and maintenance
   
73.07   Unobstructed view
   
73.08   Muffler
   
73.09   Tires; cleats or projections prohibited; exceptions; permissive uses;
special permits; exceptions
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01  REGISTRATION; OPERATOR AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park a motor vehicle upon any street, alley
or public highway within the municipality without having first registered the
same in accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 3, and Neb. RS 60-321,
except as provided in this division (A). A person may operate a motor vehicle
without registration for a period not to exceed 30 days from the date of
purchase. Upon registration, such vehicle shall have the required number plates
displayed upon said vehicle in the manner and places provided for by Neb. RS
60-323. If a citation is issued to an owner or operator of a vehicle for a
violation of this division (A) and the owner properly registers and licenses
the vehicle not in compliance and pays all taxes and fees due and the owner or
operator provides proof of such registration to the prosecuting attorney within
ten days after the issuance of the citation, no prosecution for the offense
cited shall occur.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or
public highway without having obtained a motor vehicle operator’s license in
accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 4. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or public highway
during the period that his or her operator’s license has been revoked or
canceled.
(Prior Code, § 5-601)  (Ord. 201, passed 1-9-1996)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-302, 60-321, 60-323, 60-4,186
§ 73.02  OPERATOR’S LICENSE; DUTY TO CARRY AND EXHIBIT.
   Every person licensed to operate motor vehicles shall, upon receipt of such
license card, endorse his or her signature thereon in a space provided for such
purpose, and no license shall be valid until the license card is so endorsed.
Except for a special permit issued under the provisions of Neb. RS 60-4,118,
the license card shall at all times be carried by the licensee when operating a
motor vehicle on the public ways of this municipality, and shall be presented
by the licensee for examination, or he or she shall present proof of ownership
of the same, upon demand by any officer, employee or agent of the state patrol,
police or peace officer recognized as such by the laws of this state. Such
officer, employee or agent must in every case of making demand on the motor
vehicle operator to show a motor vehicle operator’s license, first display
proper evidence of his or her lawful authority to act as an officer of the law.
(Prior Code, § 5-602)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-489
§ 73.03  OPERATOR’S LICENSE; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in his or her
possession any canceled, revoked, suspended, fictitious or fraudulently altered
operator’s license;
   (B)   Lend his or her operator’s license to any person or knowingly permit
the use thereof by another;
   (C)   Display or represent as one’s own any operator’s license not issued to
him or her;
   (D)   Fail or refuse to surrender to the director upon his or her lawful
demand any operator’s license which has been suspended, revoked or canceled;
   (E)   Use a false or fictitious name in any application for an operator’s
license or knowingly make a false statement or knowingly to conceal a material
fact or otherwise commit a fraud in any such application;
   (F)   Permit any unlawful use of an operator’s license issued to him or her;
   (G)   Do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this act;
   (H)   Make any false affidavit, or knowingly to swear or affirm falsely to
any matter or thing required by the terms of this act to be sworn to or
affirmed, and such person is guilty of perjury, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as other persons committing perjury are punishable;
   (I)   Cause or knowingly permit his or her child or ward under age of 16
years to drive a motor vehicle upon any street or alley when such minor is not
properly licensed, or in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter; or
   (J)   Authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him or her or
under his or her control to be driven upon any street or alley by any person
who is not properly licensed, or in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-603)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-491
§ 73.04  TRAILERS.
   No trailer, semi-trailer or cabin trailer shall be operated or parked on any
street, alley or public highway within the municipality without having first
registered the same in accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 3, and Neb.
RS 60-321, except as provided in this section. A person may pull such trailer,
semi-trailer or cabin trailer without registration for a period not to exceed
30 days from the date of purchase. Upon registration, such trailer, semi-
trailer or cabin trailer shall have the required number plate displayed upon
said trailer as provided for by Neb. RS 60-311. If a citation is issued to an
owner or operator of a vehicle for a violation of this section, and the owner
properly registers and licenses the vehicle not in compliance and pays all
taxes and fees due and the owner or operator provides proof of such
registration to the prosecuting attorney within ten days after the issuance of
the citation, no prosecution for the offense cited shall occur.
(Prior Code, § 5-604)  (Ord. 202, passed 1-9-1996)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-302, 60-321
§ 73.05  VEHICLE LICENSE; REQUIRED, UNLAWFUL DISPLAY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, no person shall operate,
drive or cause to be operated or driven, a motor vehicle on the public ways,
unless such vehicle shall at all times have displayed one number plate on the
back thereof and one number plate on the front thereof, which plates shall be
furnished for it as hereinbefore provided.
   (B)   In each registration period in which registration plates are not
furnished, such plates shall have affixed thereto the renewal tabs furnished
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-311. In all cases such number plates shall be securely
fastened in an upright position to the motor vehicle so as to prevent such
plates from swinging, and at a minimum distance of 16 inches from the ground.
No person shall attach to or display on such motor vehicle any:
      (1)   Number plate or certificate, other than as assigned to it for the
current registration period;
      (2)   Fictitious or altered number plates or registration certificate;
      (3)   Number plates or registration certificate that shall have been
canceled by the Department of Motor Vehicles; or
      (4)   Number plates in any registration period in which plates are not
furnished, to which renewal tabs have not been affixed.
(Prior Code, § 5-605)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-323
§ 73.06  EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys or highways
of the municipality shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control
the movement of, to stop, and to hold such vehicle, including two separate
means of applying the brakes, and shall be further equipped with a good and
sufficient horn in good working order, or other efficient signal devices, from
sunset to sunrise, and any other time when there is not sufficient light to
render clearly discernible persons or vehicles upon the street, alley or
highway at a distance of 500 feet, lighted front and rear lamps as required by
Neb. RS 60-6,219.
   (B)   No person shall operate any vehicle which is equipped with an electric
light or lights that confuse travelers or pedestrians on streets or crosswalks
within the municipality.
   (C)   Every motor vehicle having a width of 80 inches or more shall display
clearance lights as required by state law. All vehicle brakes shall be
maintained in good working order; provided, motorcycles need only be equipped
with one brake. All horns on motor vehicles shall be capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet;
provided, no vehicle except as herein provided, shall be equipped with, nor
shall any person use upon a vehicle, any siren, or horn otherwise than as
reasonable warning; nor shall any person use any horn or warning device upon a
vehicle to make any unnecessary, loud or harsh sound; and provided further
that, every Police and Fire Department vehicle, ambulance or other authorized
emergency vehicle used for emergency calls shall be equipped with a bell, siren
or whistle of the type approved by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-606)  (Ord. 203, passed 1-9-1996)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,219, 60-6,220, 60-6,224, 60-6,235, 60-
6,244, 60-6,285
§ 73.07  UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW.
   No person shall drive on a street any motor vehicle constructed or loaded in
such a way as to prevent the driver from obtaining a view of the street to the
rear unless such vehicle is equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to
the driver a view of the street for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear
of such vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive upon a street,
any vehicle with a sign, poster or other non-transparent material upon the
front windshield, side windows or rear windows of such motor vehicle other than
a certificate, or paper required to be so displayed by law. Every windshield on
a motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device for removing rain, snow or
other moisture from the windshield, which device shall be so constructed as to
be operated by the driver within the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-607)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,254, 60-6,255, 60-6,256
§ 73.08  MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this municipality shall be provided with
a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
It shall be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any motor vehicle upon any
streets; provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-608)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,286
§ 73.09  TIRES; CLEATS OR PROJECTIONS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS; PERMISSIVE USES;
SPECIAL PERMITS: EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any street or alley,
shall have rubber on its entire traction surface at least one inch thick above
the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a street or alley shall have on its
periphery any clock, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberance of
any material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive
of the stud casing with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not
more than seven sixty-fourths of an inch between November 1 and March 15,
however, school buses, mail carrier vehicles, and emergency vehicles shall be
permitted to use metal or metal-type studs at any time during the year;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the street or alley; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other condition tending to cause the vehicle to slide or skid.
   (C)   The Department of Roads and the governing body may, in its discretion,
issue special permits authorizing the operation upon a street or alley of
traction engines or tractors having movable tracks with transverse corrugations
upon the periphery of such movable tracks or farm tractors or other farm
machinery.
(Prior Code, § 5-609)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,250
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 5-701)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   NUISANCES AND HEALTH
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Limitations
   
90.02   Wild
   
90.03   Cruelty
   
90.04   Killing and injuring
   
90.05   Fowl; limitations
Dogs
   
90.20   License
   
90.21   License tags
   
90.22   Owner defined
   
90.23   Running at large
   
90.24   Capture impossible
   
90.25   Vicious dogs
   
90.26   Interference with police
   
90.27   Killing and poisoning
   
90.28   Barking and offensive noises
   
90.29   Fighting
   
90.30   Liability of owner
   
90.31   Removal of tags
   
90.32   Animal shelter
   
90.33   Impounding
   
90.34   Biting suspected
   
90.35   Legal destruction
   
90.36   Kennels; license
   
90.37   Rabies vaccination required
   
90.38   Failure to vaccinate
Dangerous Dogs
   
90.50   Definitions
   
90.51   Restrained
   
90.52   Confined
   
90.53   Failure to comply
   
90.54   Additional regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  LIMITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits of the village, any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine or other
livestock, except that such animals may be permitted to be kept or maintained
on contiguous parcels within the corporate limits adjacent to agriculturally
zoned real estate surrounding the corporate limits upon receipt of a
conditional permit therefor, subject to renewal annually by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-201)  (Ord. 147, passed 11-7-1989)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 90.02  WILD.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except such animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
(Prior Code, § 6-202)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03  CRUELTY.
   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, overwork or insufficiently
shelter or feed any animal within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-203)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04  KILLING AND INJURING.
   No person shall kill or injure any animal by the use of firearms, stones,
clubs, poisons or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or dangerous
and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to effect a
capture of the said animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-204)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05  FOWL; LIMITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits of the village, any poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese or other fowls,
except that such fowls may be permitted to be kept or maintained on contiguous
parcels within the corporate limits adjacent to agriculturally zoned real
estate surrounding the corporate limits upon receipt of a conditional permit
therefor, subject to renewal annually by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-205)  (Ord. 147, passed 11-7-1989)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
DOGS
§ 90.20  LICENSE.
   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of six months
within the municipality shall within 30 days after acquisition of the said dog
acquire a license for each such dog annually by or before April 1 each year.
The said tax shall be delinquent from and after May 1; provided, the possessor
of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to
April 1 of any year, shall be liable for the payment of the dog tax levied
herein and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within 30 days thereafter.
Licenses shall be issued by the Municipal Clerk upon the payment of a license
tax of $5 for each dog if paid on time as required above, and $7 if the license
tax is delinquent allocable to the municipality, and, in addition to the
municipality’s license tax, shall collect a fee of $1 for disbursement to the
state as required by Neb. RS 54-603(3). Said license shall not be transferable
and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other disposition of
the licensed dog. The owner shall state at the time the application is made and
upon printed forms provided for such purpose, the owner’s name and address and
the name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned and kept by such owner. A
certificate that the dog has had a rabies shot, effective for the ensuing year
of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied for and no
license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)  (Ord. 273, passed 6-4-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, 71-4412
§ 90.21  LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk shall issue
to the owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the said
dog until March 31 following such licensing.
   (B)   In the event that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence
that the original plate or tag was issued in accordance with the provisions
herein, the Municipal Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance
of the year for which the license tax has been paid and shall charge and
collect a fee of $0.25 for each duplicate or new tag so issued. All license
fees and collections shall be immediately credited to the General Fund. It
shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to issue tags of a suitable design
that are different in appearance each year.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603
§ 90.22  OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be, for ten days or more,
in or about his or her house, store or enclosure, or to remain to be fed, shall
be deemed the owner and possessor of such dog and shall be deemed to be liable
for all penalties herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-606, 71-4401
§ 90.23  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run at
large at any time within the corporate limits of the municipality. It shall be
the duty of the Village Marshal to cause any dog found to be running at large
within the municipality to be taken up and impounded. RUNNING AT LARGE shall
mean any dog found off the premises of the owner, and not under control of the
owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage
or other suitable means of physical restraint.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-607
§ 90.24  CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Village Marshal shall have the authority to kill any animals showing
vicious tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.25  VICIOUS DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog of a
dangerous or ferocious disposition that habitually snaps or manifests a
disposition to bite, without the said dog being securely held by a chain not
over six feet long. If any vicious or dangerous dog is otherwise held, confined
or allowed to run at large, the Village Marshal shall have the authority to put
the dog to death.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.26  INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with the
Village Marshal who is performing any duty enjoined upon him or her by the
provisions of this subchapter, or to break open, or in any manner directly or
indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of the animal shelter, any
ambulance wagon or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of dogs
to the shelter.
(Prior Code, § 6-107)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906
§ 90.27  KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a dog, or in any manner to injure, maim or destroy, or in
any manner attempt to injure, maim or destroy any dog that is the property of
another person, or to place any poison, or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a dog; provided, that this section shall not apply to the Village
Marshal acting within his or her power and duty.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.28  BARKING AND OFFENSIVE NOISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog
which by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall annoy or
disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets or alleys in the municipality.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the Municipal Clerk,
that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint is an annoyance or
disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions of this section, the Village
Marshal shall investigate the complaint and, if in his or her opinion the
situation warrants, shall notify the owner to silence and restrain such dog.
The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to the municipal
dog shelter.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.29  FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.30  LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept or harbored
by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner or possessor of any such dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon
conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in an amount
equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Prior Code, § 6-111)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602
§ 90.31  REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-112)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.32  ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The animal shelter shall be safe, suitable and conveniently located for the
impounding, keeping and destruction of dogs. The said shelter shall be
sanitary, ventilated and lighted. It shall be the duty of the Village Marshal
to provide an animal shelter; provided, however, it shall be lawful for the
governing body to enter into an agreement by resolution with any veterinarian,
clinic or humane society for the purpose of providing a suitable animal shelter
in order to comply with the provisions of this subchapter. If such an agreement
is executed, the provisions herein applicable to the animal shelter and/or the
Village Marshal shall be applicable to the veterinarian, clinic or humane
society with whom an agreement has been executed.
(Prior Code, § 6-113)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548
§ 90.33  IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Village Marshal to capture, secure and
remove in a humane manner to the municipal animal shelter any dog violating any
of the provisions of this subchapter. The dogs so impounded shall be treated in
a humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and
fresh water each day.
   (B)   Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained at the pound for a
period of not less than five days after public notice has been given unless
reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all animals, including
any significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at the office of the
Municipal Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of
such impoundment.
   (C)   Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment
by payment of a general impoundment fee and daily board fee as set by
resolution of the governing body and on file in the office of the Municipal
Clerk. The owner shall then be required to comply with the licensing and rabies
vaccination requirements within 72 hours after release. If the dog is not
claimed at the end of required waiting period after public notice has been
given, the municipal police may dispose of the dog in accordance with the
applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same; provided, that if, in
the judgment of the municipal police, a suitable home can be found for any such
dog within the municipality, the said dog shall be turned over to that person
and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees and meet all licensing
and vaccinating requirements provided in this subchapter.
   (D)   The municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog
impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting
period after giving notice. All dogs shall be destroyed and buried in the
summary and humane manner as prescribed by the Board of Health unless a
suitable home can be found for such dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-114)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548, 71-4408
§ 90.34  BITING SUSPECTED.
   Any dog suspected of having bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the
skin, shall be seized and impounded for a period of not less than ten days. If
upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs of rabies at
the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner, or, in the case
of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions
herein. If the owner of the said dog has proof of vaccination, it shall be
confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of at least
ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian.
If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be released from confinement.
(Prior Code, § 6-115)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 90.35  LEGAL DESTRUCTION.
   Any person who owns, harbors or in any way sustains a dog that he or she
wishes to be destroyed may place the same in the animal shelter to be destroyed
and disposed of according to the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-116)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.36  KENNELS; LICENSE.
   Any person, firm or entity who owns, harbors or keeps three or more dogs at
any one time shall be deemed to own a kennel. Kennel owners shall be charged a
kennel license fee as set by resolution of the governing body. All kennels
shall be maintained in a sanitary, ventilated and suitable manner, free of
noxious odors and offensive barking, howling or yelping.
(Prior Code, § 6-117)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.37  RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   Every dog, four months of age and older, within the corporate limits of the
village, shall be vaccinated against rabies within 30 days after they have
reached four months of age and every unvaccinated dog brought into the
corporate limits of the village, shall be vaccinated within 30 days after
purchase or arrival, unless under four months of age. After initial vaccination
against rabies, every dog within the corporate limits of the village shall be
revaccinated following a period of not more than 36 months since its last
vaccination with chick embryo, LEP (Low Egg Passage) Flury Vaccine or following
a period of not more than 12 months since its last vaccination with killed or
inactivated vaccine. The intervals of any other anti-rabies vaccines shall be
set by the State Veterinarian, and he or she shall follow the latest
recommendations of the United States Public Health Service.
(Prior Code, § 6-118)  (Ord. 121, passed 9-3-1985)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4402
§ 90.38  FAILURE TO VACCINATE.
   The owner of any dog who violates any of the provisions of §
90.37 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-119)  (Ord. 121, passed 9-3-1985)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4410
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.  An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of a village.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.  Any individual employed, appointed or authorized by
an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this act or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of animals,
control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals and shall include any
state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or in
part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG.  Any dog that, according to the records of an animal control
authority:
      (1)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being on public or
private property;
      (2)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog was
off the owner’s property; or
      (3)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog by
an animal control authority and the owner has received notice of such
determination and such dog again aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals. A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS
DOG if the threat, any injury that is not a severe injury, or the damage was
sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass as
defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521 or any other tort upon the property
of the owner of the dog, who was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, who
has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or
assaulted the dog, or who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  A cat, a dog or livestock.
   OWNER.  Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts a nonsevere injury on a human or injures a domestic
animal either on public or private property; or
         (b)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
   SEVERE INJURY.  Any physical injury that results in disfiguring lacerations
requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or one or more broken bones or
that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the victim.
(Prior Code, § 6-120)  (Ord. 167, passed 4-6-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-617
§ 90.51  RESTRAINED.
   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the property
of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or leash.
(Prior Code, § 6-121)  (Ord. 167, passed 4-6-1993)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-618
§ 90.52  CONFINED.
   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be securely
confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen
or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young children and to
prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have secure sides and
a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides shall be embedded into the ground. The pen or structure shall also
protect the dog from the elements. The owner of a dangerous dog shall post a
warning sign on the property where the dog is kept that is clearly visible and
that informs persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
(Prior Code, § 6-122)  (Ord. 167, passed 4-6-1993)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-619
§ 90.53  FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal control
officer if the owner is in violation of this subchapter. The owner shall be
responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control authority
for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control officer or for
the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal control
authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this subchapter.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal control
authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 6-123)  (Ord. 167, passed 4-6-1993)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-620
§ 90.54  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to restrict or prohibit any
governing body of the village from establishing and enforcing laws or
ordinances at least as stringent as the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-124)  (Ord. 167, passed 4-6-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-624
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fires Generally
   
91.01   Preservation of property
   
91.02   Disorderly spectator
   
91.03   Equipment
   
91.04   Interference
   
91.05   Obstruction
   
91.06   Assistance
   
91.07   Driving over hose
   
91.08   Traffic
   
91.09   False alarm
   
91.10   Pedestrians
Fire Prevention
   
91.25   Fire Chief; authority
   
91.26   Definitions
   
91.27   Prohibited acts; exceptions
   
91.28   Wind and weather conditions
   
91.29   Outdoor fireplace nuisance or safety hazard
   
91.30   Outdoor fireplace; hours of operation
Fireworks
   
91.45   Permitted fireworks
   
91.46   Public exhibition or display
   
91.47   Fireworks for agricultural use
   
91.48   Throwing of fireworks prohibited
   
91.49   Sale
   
91.50   Permitted times for discharge of fireworks
   
91.51   Debris removal
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIRES GENERALLY
§ 91.01  PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the
purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse to obey
the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The Fire
Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during such
time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the performance of
their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 91.03  EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 91.04  INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-104)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 91.05  OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within 15 feet of the said hydrant. Any vehicle
or material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire
Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost and expense of
the owner or claimant.
(Prior Code, § 7-105)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 91.06  ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-106)
§ 91.07  DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-107)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,184
§ 91.08  TRAFFIC.
   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected. Nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying doctors, members of the
Fire Department, or emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7-108)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,183
§ 91.09  FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause, raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-109)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10  PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Prior Code, § 7-110)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.25  FIRE CHIEF; AUTHORITY.
   The Fire Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department or any designee of such Fire
Chief is authorized to issue citations and order the extinguishment of any fire
that creates or adds to a hazardous or objectionable situation or is in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter, state statutes or any otherwise
applicable rules or regulations related to fire prevention.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-4-2014)
§ 91.26  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BARBEQUE GRILLS.  Includes the devices sometimes commonly referred to as
hibachi, grill, smoker or gas grill, utilizing charcoal, propane, natural gas
or wood pellets as a fuel for outdoor cooking and, although fire may not be
within a fully enclosed firebox, the use thereof shall not constitute open
burning.
   CHIMNEAS.  Outdoor patio fireplaces, usually made from clay, intended to
confine and control outdoor wood fires.
   FIRE PIT.  A freestanding vessel designed and intended to confine and
control outdoor wood fires, constructed above ground of steel, concrete and/or
stone with a heavy steel screen cover.
   GOVERNING BODY.  The Alda Village Board of Trustees.
   OPEN BURNING.  Using fire to burn material which is not contained within a
fully enclosed firebox or structure and from which the products of combustion
are permitted directly to the open atmosphere without passing through an
appropriate stack, duct or chimney.
   OUTDOOR FIREPLACES.  Includes fire pits and chimineas. These residential
outdoor fireplaces use wood as a fuel and are used for containing recreational
fires located at a private residence for the purpose of outdoor cooking and
personal enjoyment. OUTDOOR FIREPLACES do not include barbeque grills.
   OUTDOOR HEATER.  A device designed for generation of radiant heat for
outdoor use through the combustion of clean-burning fuels such as propane or
natural gas.
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Alda, Nebraska, a municipal corporation.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-4-2014)
§ 91.27  PROHIBITED ACTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   For the comfort, health and safety of its residents, the governing body has
determined it necessary to regulate all burning within its corporate limits of
the village and to permit only limited exceptions as follows.
   (A)   Prohibited. Except as otherwise permitted in this subchapter of the
municipal code or in the statutes of the state, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm, corporation or entity to burn or cause to be burned any material,
item or thing within the corporate limits of the village. It shall be unlawful
for any person, firm, corporation or entity to start, ignite, maintain or
permit any open burning.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The use of outdoor fireplaces for the purpose of containing small
recreational fires is permitted on the property of one-family, two-family or
multi-family residential dwellings, in accordance with the following rules and
regulations.
         (a)   The burning must be conducted in a noncombustible container
sufficiently vented to include adequate primary combustion air with enclosed
sides, a bottom and a mesh covering with openings not larger than one-quarter-
inch square.
         (b)   Such fires shall be under constant supervision while burning.
         (c)   The fire and/or burning must be of such limited size as to allow
the person in charge to have complete control over it.
         (d)   The fire and/or burning must not create a nuisance or a hazard
to the health or the safety of persons or property in the area. Any fire which
produces smoke that is a nuisance shall be extinguished.
         (e)   The burning of garbage, trash, leaves or other refuse shall not
be permitted.
         (f)   The burning or igniting of highly flammable, toxic or explosive
materials shall not be permitted.
      (2)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity may ignite and
maintain any burning which is necessary for the usual and customary preparation
and/or cooking of food, including the use of barbeque grills.
      (3)   The use of outdoor heaters shall be permitted only so long as they
shall remain under constant supervision while in operation.
      (4)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the use of any device,
equipment, structure or appliance located within a residence, commercial
building, garage or other completely enclosed building that may involve the
burning of some fuel or material in connection with the use for which it is
normally intended.
      (5)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent or limit the use of motor
vehicles, commercial equipment, farm equipment, residential equipment,
generators and other devices that burn fuel in the normal course of their
operation.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-4-2014)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28  WIND AND WEATHER CONDITIONS.
   Outdoor fireplaces shall be completely extinguished and/or not be operated
when winds are blowing over 20 mph and wind direction will cause smoke, embers
or other burning materials to be carried by the wind toward any building or
other combustible materials. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated when
weather conditions are extremely dry.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-4-2014)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.29  OUTDOOR FIREPLACE NUISANCE OR SAFETY HAZARD.
   Smoke from any outdoor fireplace shall not create a nuisance for neighboring
property owners. The fire shall be extinguished immediately upon the complaint
of the neighboring property owner of any smoke nuisance. The Fire Chief or such
Chief’s designee has the authority to require outdoor fireplace use to be
immediately discontinued if such use is determined to constitute a hazardous
condition to occupants of surrounding property.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-4-2014)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.30  OUTDOOR FIREPLACE; HOURS OF OPERATION.
   An outdoor fireplace may not be utilized prior to 8:00 a.m. and shall be
completely extinguished and embers cooled by no later than 11:00 p.m. on each
day so as to prohibit the fire from rekindling.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-4-2014)  Penalty, see §
91.99
FIREWORKS
§ 91.45  PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause fireworks of any kind
or description to be exploded within the jurisdiction of the village, unless
such fireworks have been authorized for use within the state and approved for
sale and use by the State Fire Marshal as consumer fireworks.
(Ord. 292, passed 11-7-2017)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1241
§ 91.46  PUBLIC EXHIBITION OR DISPLAY.
   Notwithstanding the restrictions of §
91.45, fireworks not approved for sale and use by the State Fire Marshal as
consumer fireworks may be used for the purpose of public exhibitions or display
upon authorization of the Village Board.
(Ord. 292, passed 11-7-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1245
§ 91.47  FIREWORKS FOR AGRICULTURAL USE.
   Notwithstanding the restrictions of §
91.45, fireworks not approved for sale and use by the State Fire Marshal as
consumer fireworks may be used for agricultural purposes pursuant to written
authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 292, passed 11-7-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1245
§ 91.48  THROWING OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any fireworks, or any object
which explodes upon contact with another object, from or into a motor vehicle;
onto any street, highway or sidewalk; at or near any person; into any building;
or into or at any group of persons.
(Ord. 292, passed 11-7-2017)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1242
§ 91.49  SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale or offer for sale
as a distributor, jobber or retailer any fireworks without first obtaining a
license from the State Fire Marshal for that calendar year and no person shall
sell consumer fireworks in the village, without first receiving approval from
the Village Board. Licensed vendors shall only sell consumer fireworks approved
by the State Fire Marshal at retail between June 24 and July 5 of each year.
(Ord. 292, passed 11-7-2017)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1246, 28-1249
§ 91.50  PERMITTED TIMES FOR DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   Permissible fireworks may be discharged, exploded or used in the village on
June 24 through and including July 5 of each year; provided that on such days
the discharge and explosion of fireworks shall only be permitted during the
following times:
   (A)   June 24 through July 1: 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.;
   (B)   July 2 and July 3: 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.;
   (C)   July 4: 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight; and
   (D)   July 5: 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
(Ord. 292, passed 11-7-2017)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.51  DEBRIS REMOVAL.
   All debris left from the discharge of fireworks in the streets of the
village or any other public property located in the village must be removed
within 24 hours by the person responsible for such debris and in the event of
failure to remove that debris shall be fined $50 upon conviction thereof.
(Ord. 292, passed 11-7-2017)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specifically set forth, any person who shall violate
or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of the provisions of §§
91.45 through
91.51, shall be deemed guilty of misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed
to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Ord. 292, passed 11-7-2017)
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES AND HEALTH
Section
Health; General Provisions
   
92.01   Regulation
   
92.02   Enforcement official
   
92.03   State rules
   
92.04   County Health Board
   
92.05   Definitions
   
92.06   Implementation of directed health measures
   
92.07   Directed health measures
   
92.08   Procedure
   
92.09   Order
   
92.10   Notice
   
92.11   Enforcement
   
92.12   Cooperation and coordination
   
92.13   Reporting
Nuisances
   
92.25   Generally defined
   
92.26   Specifically defined
   
92.27   Abatement procedure
   
92.28   Jurisdiction
   
92.29   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
92.30   Abatement of nuisance
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 90
   Fire Prevention and Protection, see
Chapter 91
   Garbage, see
Chapter 51
   General Offenses, see Title XIII Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 93
HEALTH; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  REGULATION.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt rules and
regulations relative thereto, and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 92.02  ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Village Marshal, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the chief health
officer of the municipality. It shall be his or her duty to notify the
governing body and the Board of Health of health nuisances within the
municipality and its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 92.03  STATE RULES.
   The Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health, Department of Health of
the state are hereby incorporated by reference when the same are applicable to
the municipality, in their present form and as they may hereafter be amended.
Three copies of the said pamphlet are filed at the office of the Municipal
Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 4-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902
§ 92.04  COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 4-104)
§ 92.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER.  The state Chief Medical Officer appointed pursuant
to Neb. RS 81-3115, if the State Public Health Department Director is not a
Medical Doctor.
   COMMUNICABLE DISEASE, ILLNESS OR POISONING.  An illness due to an infectious
or malignant agent, which is capable of being transmitted directly or
indirectly to a person from an infected person or animal through the agency of
an intermediate animal, host or vector, or through the inanimate environment.
   DECONTAMINATION.  The removal or neutralizing of contaminating material,
such as radioactive materials, biological materials or chemical warfare agents,
from a person or object to the extent necessary to preclude the occurrence of
foreseeable adverse health effects. DECONTAMINATION includes remediation or
destruction of sources of communicable disease or biological, chemical,
radiological or nuclear agents.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Central District Health Department
   DIRECTED HEALTH MEASURES.  Any measure, whether prophylactic or remedial,
intended and directed to prevent or limit the spread of communicable disease or
to prevent or limit public exposure to or spread of biological, chemical,
radiological or nuclear agents.
   DIRECTOR.  The Director of the Central District Health Department, or a
person acting on behalf of the Director as his or her designee.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY.  Any facility licensed under the Health Care Facility
Licensure Act, Neb. RS 71-401 through 71-469 and shall include such additional
clinics not licensed under that act as may be identified in specific orders
issued pursuant to these regulations.
   HEALTH CARE PROVIDER.  Any credentialed person regulated under the Advanced
Practice Registered Nurse Act, Neb. RS 38-201 through 38-212 the Emergency
Medical Services Act, Neb. RS 38-1201 through 38-1237 the Licensed Practical
Nurse-Certified Act, 172 NAC 102 the State Certified Nurse Midwifery Practice
Act, Neb RS 38-601 through 38-618 the Nurse Practice Act, Neb. RS 38-2201
through 38-2238 the Occupational Therapy Practice Act, Neb. 38-2501 through 38-
2531 the Uniform Licensing Law, Neb. RS 38-3101 through 38-3133, or Neb. RS 71-
3702 to 71-3706.
   ISOLATION.  The separation of people who have a specific communicable
disease from healthy people and the restriction of their movement to stop the
spread of that disease.
   LOCAL PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT.  A local public health department as defined
by Neb. RS 71-1626 and its governing officials.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT (PPE).  Equipment ordered or used to protect
an individual from communicable disease, illness or poisoning.
   PREMISES.  Land and any structures upon it.
   PUBLIC HEALTH AUTHORITY.  Any individual or entity charged by law with a
duty or authority to enforce or carry out a public health function.
   QUARANTINE.  Directed to identified individuals or defined populations means
the restriction of, or conditions upon, the movement and activities of people
who are not yet ill, but who have been or may have been exposed to an agent of
communicable disease, illness or poisoning and are therefore potentially
capable of communicating a disease, illness or poison. The purpose is to
prevent or limit the spread of communicable disease, illness or poison.
QUARANTINE of individuals or defined populations generally involves the
separation of the quarantined, from the general population.
   QUARANTINE and ISOLATION. These terms both include restriction of, or
conditions upon, the movement and activities of people to prevent or limit the
spread of communicable disease, illness or poisoning. In circumstances where
animals are agents of communicable disease, illness or poisoning, either term
may apply to such animals.
   QUARANTINE OFFICER.  The statutorily established quarantine officer for a
municipality or county, usually the chief executive or top law enforcement
officer.
   QUARANTINE OF PREMISES.  Restriction of the movement of all people upon,
into or out from those premises to prevent or limit the spread of communicable
disease or to prevent or limit public exposure to or spread of biological,
chemical, radiological or nuclear agents.
   STATE PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT.  The State Department of Health and Human
Services Regulation and Licensure or its successor.
(Ord. 245, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 92.06  IMPLEMENTATION OF DIRECTED HEALTH MEASURES.
   The following process shall be undertaken to implement directed health
measures.
   (A)   When the Director receives information from:
      (1)   The United States Department of Health and Human Services Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention;
      (2)   The State Public Health Department;
      (3)   Any other Local Public Health Department;
      (4)   Communicable disease surveillance conducted by the Central District
Health Department; or
      (5)   Treating health care providers or health care facilities that a
member or members of the public have been, or may have been exposed to a
communicable disease, illness or poisoning by biological, chemical radiological
or nuclear agents, the Director will review all information under the following
provisions to determine if any directed health measure should be ordered.
   (B)   Before ordering a directed health measure, the Director:
      (1)   Must find both:
         (a)   A member or members of the public have been, or may have been
exposed; and
         (b)   Directed health measures exist to effectively prevent, limit or
slow the spread of communicable disease or to prevent, limit or slow public
exposure to or spread of biological, chemical, radiological or nuclear agents;
and
      (2)   Must find one or more of the following:
         (a)   That the exposure presents a risk of death or serious long-term
disabilities to any person;
         (b)   That the exposure is wide-spread and poses a significant risk of
harm to people in the general population; or
         (c)   That there is a particular subset of the population that is more
vulnerable to the threat and thus at increased risk.
      (3)   May make further finding, in assessing the nature of the risk
presented:
         (a)   Whether the threat is from a novel or previously eradicated
infectious agent or toxin;
         (b)   Whether the threat is or may be a result of intentional attack,
accidental release or natural disaster; or
         (c)   Whether any person(s) or agent(s) posing the risk of
communicating the disease are non-compliant with any measures ordered by a
health care provider.
   (C)   If affirmative findings are made pursuant to division (B) above and
the Director further finds that a delay in the imposition of an effective
directed health measure would significantly jeopardize the ability to prevent
or limit the transmission of a communicable disease, illness or poisoning or
pose unacceptable risks to any person or persons, the Director may impose any
of the directed health measures set out in this section.
   (D)   The Director’s findings will be reported to the State Public Health
Department Communicable Disease Control program.
   (E)   The Director may refer the findings to the Director of the State
Public Health Department and defer to that Director for the imposition of
measures under the State Public Health Department’s authority.
(Ord. 245, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 92.07  DIRECTED HEALTH MEASURES.
   Measures that may be utilized to control the spread of communicable diseases
include the following:
   (A)   (1)   Directed health measures, which may be ordered by the Director
are:
         (a)   Quarantine:
            1.   Of individuals;
            2.   Of defined populations;
            3.   Of buildings and premises, or of defined areas, public and
private; or
            4.   Of animals.
         (b)   The methods of quarantine may require the individual or
population to remain within defined areas or to restricted activities, which
may include “work quarantine” restricting individuals or defined populations to
their residence or workplace.
         (c)   In the event that the quarantine of affected premises posing an
immediate threat to the public health and safety is determined to be incapable
of effective enforcement, the Department may act alone or in concert with any
local jurisdiction having condemnation and nuisance abatement authority, to
carry out measures effective to remove the threat, including safe demolition of
the premises.
      (2)   Isolation of individuals:
         (a)   At home; or
         (b)   In a health care facility, or in another designated area.
      (3)   Decontamination; and/or
      (4)   Such other protocols or measures as may be identified as effective
against public health threats by the American Public Health Association, the
United States Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention or other similar authority.
   (B)   Any of the directed health measures may include, and are not limited
to, any of the following:
      (1)   Periodic monitoring and reporting of vital signs;
      (2)   Use of PPE for the performance of specified tasks or at specified
premises; and/or
      (3)   Specific infection control measures including cleaning and disposal
of specified materials.
   (C)   Any order of the Director may include temporary seizure or
commandeering of personal or real property for public health purposes.
   (D)   Directed health measures may be directed to an individual, group of
individuals, or a population, or directed to the public at large with regard to
identified premises or activities and may also include health care providers,
health care facilities, health care authorities and public and private property
including animals.
(Ord. 245, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 92.08  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In making the finding under §
92.06 and determining the measures under §
92.07, the Director will consult with the medical consultant of the Central
District Health Department, and with the state’s Chief Medical Officer or other
medical and communicable disease control personnel of the State Public Health
Department. The Director may make use of the expertise and observations of any
health care provider who has treated a person subject to consideration for a
directed health measure. The Director will also consider the directives and
guidelines issued by the American Public Health Association and the United
States Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.
   (B)   In determining the nature, scope and duration of the directed health
measure ordered, the Director, based on the information available at the time
of the determination, will:
      (1)   Assess the situation and identify the least restrictive practical
means of isolation, quarantine, decontamination or imposition of other directed
health measures on persons or property that effectively protects unexposed and
susceptible individuals;
      (2)   When isolation or quarantine is ordered, select a place that will
allow the most freedom of movement and communication with family members and
other contacts without allowing disease transmission to others and allow the
appropriate level of medical care needed by isolated or quarantined individuals
to the extent practicable;
      (3)   For communicable diseases, order that the duration of the directed
health measure should be no longer than necessary to ensure that the affected
individual or group no longer poses a public health threat;
      (4)   Give consideration to separation of isolated individuals from
quarantined individuals. However, if quarantine or isolation is possible in the
affected individual’s home, individuals may be isolated with quarantined
individuals; and
      (5)   Give consideration to providing for termination of the order under
the following circumstances: if laboratory testing or examination is available
to rule out a communicable condition, the order may provide proof of the
testing or examination negative result will be accepted to terminate a directed
health measure. If treatment is available to remedy a communicable condition,
the order may provide that proof of successful treatment will be accepted to
terminate a directed health measure.
(Ord. 245, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 92.09  ORDER.
   To control spread of a communicable disease, the Director shall be empowered
as follows.
   (A)   Upon a finding pursuant to §
92.06 and determination pursuant to §
92.07, the Director will issue an order directed to the affected individual
individuals, entity or entities.
   (B)   Prior to issuing any order, the Director will, as required by Neb. RS
71-1631(10), obtain approval of the directed health measure ordered by the
State Public Health Department.
   (C)   Orders of the Director imposing directed health measures are effective
immediately.
   (D)   Orders will contain the finding and determination and will order the
affected person or persons to comply with the terms of the order, and will also
include the following:
      (1)   Orders of isolation will contain the following:
         (a)   Name and identifying information of the individual(s) subject to
the order;
         (b)   Brief statement of the facts warranting the isolation;
         (c)   Conditions for termination of the order;
         (d)   Duration of isolation period;
         (e)   The place of isolation;
         (f)   Required conditions to be met for treatment;
         (g)   Required conditions to be met for visitation if allowed;
         (h)   Instructions on the disinfecting or disposal of any personal
property of the individual;
         (i)   Required precautions to prevent the spread of the subject
disease; and
         (j)   Individual’s right to an independent medical exam at their own
expense.
      (2)   Orders of quarantine will contain the following:
         (a)   Name, identifying information or other description of the
individual, group of individuals, premises or geographic location subject to
the order;
         (b)   Brief statement of the facts warranting the quarantine;
         (c)   Conditions for termination of the order;
         (d)   Specified duration of the quarantine;
         (e)   The place or area of quarantine;
         (f)   No contact except as approved by the Director or designee;
         (g)   Symptoms of the subject disease and a course of treatment;
         (h)   Instructions on the disinfecting or disposal of any personal
property;
         (i)   Precautions to prevent the spread of the subject disease; and
         (j)   Individual’s right to an independent medical exam at their own
expense.
      (3)   Orders of decontamination will contain the following:
         (a)   Description of the individual, group of individuals, premises or
geographic location subject to the order;
         (b)   Brief statement of the facts warranting the quarantine;
         (c)   Instructions on the disinfecting or disposal of any personal
property; and
         (d)   Precautions to prevent the spread of the subject disease.
(Ord. 245, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 92.10  NOTICE.
   Orders issued in accordance with §
92.09 shall be provided to affected parties in a manner to reasonably assure
proper awareness of the contents of that order.
   (A)   Orders directed to individuals will be delivered in a manner
reasonably calculated to give the individual actual notice of the terms of the
order consistent with the threat of communicable disease. Service may be made
by law enforcement personnel or any other person designated by the Director.
Personal delivery may be attempted, except in cases when personal delivery
would present a risk of spread of disease or exposure to agents that cannot be
avoided by measures reasonably available. Electronic transmission by e-mail or
telefacsimile will be sufficient, provided that any available means of
determining and recording receipt of such notice will be made. If electronic
transmission is impossible or unavailable under the circumstances, oral
communication by telephone or direct transmission of voice will be sufficient,
and such communication will be memorialized at the time it is delivered.
   (B)   Orders directed to groups of individuals or populations may be
disseminated by mass media.
   (C)   Orders directed to quarantine premises or geographic locations may be
disseminated by mass media and will be posted at or near the premises or
geographic location in order to be visible and effective to achieve the
intended purpose. Copies of the orders will be delivered to the owners or
others in control of the premises, if known, in the same manner as orders
directed to individuals.
   (D)   Copies of all orders will be provided to the chief elected official(s)
of the jurisdiction(s) in which the order is implemented,
   (E)   The Central District Health Department will send a copy of the order
to the State Public Health Department Communicable Disease Control program by
telefacsimile, e-mail or the Health Alert Network system.
(Ord. 245, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 92.11  ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of any order issued pursuant to§
92.09 of this code shall be undertaken as authorized hereby.
   (A)   The Department may seek the assistance of the appropriate quarantine
officer to enforce any order.
   (B)   Department personnel assigned to enforcement of any order will promote
the need for the Directed Health Measure and encourage individuals to comply
with all aspects of the order.
   (C)   Any individual subject to an order may at any time present evidence to
the Director to show that the order should be modified or terminated. The
Director may or may not modify or terminate the order in his or her sole
discretion.
   (D)   Any person subject to an order under these regulations who does not
comply may be referred to the County Attorney for prosecution or injunctive
action under Neb. RS 71-506 or 71-1631.01.
(Ord. 245, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 92.12 COOPERATION AND COORDINATION.
   (A)   Governmental units and agencies are directed to interact to the extent
necessary and proper.
The Department may assist or seek the assistance of the State Public Health
Department, quarantine officers, other Local Public Health Departments and
other public health authorities authorized or required by law to carry out
Directed Health Measures in carrying out those measures.
   (B)   The Department may enter into Inter-local Cooperation agreements in
furtherance of the provisions of this Chapter; however, the absence of any such
agreement will not preclude the Department from exercising its authority
pursuant to these regulations.
   (C)   Treating Health Care Providers must follow and aid affected
individuals and populations in compliance with ordered Directed Health
Measures.
(Ord. 245, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 92.13  REPORTING.
   Treating health care providers, health care facilities and other persons
must report any information known to them concerning any individual or entity
subject to an order of quarantine, isolation or other directed health measure
that is not in compliance with the order. The report must be made to the State
Public Health Department and local law enforcement.
(Ord. 245, passed 5-2-2006)
NUISANCES
§ 92.25  GENERALLY DEFINED.
   A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street or
highway in the municipality;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 4-301)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 92.26  SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish or
fowl;
   (B)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   (C)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house-yards , barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the municipality, nor the dumping of non-petrifying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (G)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats may
breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as
to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (H)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
   (I)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or
taken an appeal from the determination of the Board of Health within five days
after receipt of certified mail or within five days after date of publication,
whichever is later, the Board of Health shall notify the governing body of such
non-compliance and the governing body shall, upon receipt of such notice, cause
a hearing date to be fixed and notice thereof to be served upon the owner,
occupant, lessee or mortgagee, or agent of the real estate. Such notice of
hearing shall be by personal service or certified mail and require such party
or parties to appear before the governing body to show cause why such condition
should not be found to be a public nuisance and remedied. A return of service
shall be required by the governing body. Such notice shall be given not less
than five days prior to the time of hearing; provided that whenever the owner,
lessee, occupant or mortgagee of such real estate is a non-resident or cannot
be found in the state, then the Municipal Clerk shall publish, in a newspaper
of general circulation in the municipality, such notice of hearing for two
consecutive weeks, the last publication to be at least one week prior to the
date set for the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the hearing and pursuant to
notice, the governing body shall hear all objections made by interested parties
and shall hear evidence submitted by the Board of Health. If after
consideration of all of the evidence, the governing body shall find that the
said condition is a public nuisance, it shall, by resolution, order and direct
the owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee to remedy the said public nuisance at
once; provided, the party or parties may appeal such decision to the
appropriate court for adjudication, during which proceedings the decision of
the governing body shall be stayed. Should the owner or occupant reuse or
neglect to promptly comply with the order of the governing body, the governing
body shall proceed to cause the abatement of the described public nuisance.
Upon completion of the work by the municipality, a statement of the cost of
such work shall be transmitted to the governing body, storing or leaving of any
machinery or equipment used by contractors or builders or by other persons,
which said places are kept or maintained so as to essentially interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by others, or which are so
unsightly as to tend to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (J)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on an lot or piece of ground;
   (K)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when said place in which said animals are confined, or said premises
on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom,
to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality, or are maintained and kept
in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health; and
   (L)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 92.27  ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of
real estate in the municipality to keep such real estate free of public
nuisances.
   (B)   Upon determination by the Board of Health that said owner, occupant,
lessee or mortgagee has failed to keep such real estate free of public
nuisances, the governing body shall thereupon cause notice to be served upon
the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent thereof, by publication and by
certified mail. Such notice shall describe the condition as found by the Board
of Health and state that said condition has been declared a public nuisance,
and that the condition must be remedied at once. If the person receiving the
notice has not complied therewith or taken an appeal from the determination of
the Board of Health within five days after receipt of certified mail or within
five days after date of publication, whichever is later, the Board of Health
shall notify the governing body of such noncompliance and the governing body
shall, upon receipt of such notice, cause a hearing date to be fixed and notice
thereof to be served upon the owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee, or agent of
the real estate. Such notice of hearing shall be by personal service or
certified mail and require such party or parties to appear before the governing
body to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a public
nuisance and remedied. A return of service shall be required by the governing
body. Such notice shall be given not less than five days prior to the time of
hearing, provided that whenever the owner, lessee, occupant or mortgagee of
such real estate is a non-resident or cannot be found in the state, then the
Municipal Clerk shall publish, in a newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality, such notice of hearing for two consecutive weeks, the last
publication to be at least one week prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (C)   Upon the date fixed for the hearing and pursuant to notice, the
governing body shall hear all objections made by interested parties and shall
hear evidence submitted by the Board of Health. If, after consideration of all
of the evidence, the governing body shall find that the said condition is a
public nuisance, it shall, by resolution, order and direct the owner, occupant,
lessee or mortgagee to remedy the said public nuisance at once; provided, the
party or parties may appeal such decision to the appropriate court for
adjudication, during which proceedings the decision of the governing body shall
be stayed.
   (D)   Should the owner or occupant refuse or neglect to promptly comply with
the order of the governing body, the governing body shall proceed to cause the
abatement of the described public nuisance.
   (E)   Upon completion of the work by the municipality, a statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the governing body, which is
authorized to bill the property owner or occupant, or to levy the cost as a
special assessment against the land. Such special assessment shall be a lien on
the real estate and shall be collected in the manner provided for special
assessments.
(Prior Code, § 4-303)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 92.28  JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Chairperson and Village Marshal of the municipality are directed
to enforce his or her municipal code against all nuisances.
   (B)   The jurisdiction of the Chairperson, Village Marshal and court shall
extend to, and the territorial application of this chapter shall include, all
territory adjacent to the limits of the municipality within one mile thereof
and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-304)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 92.29  ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the governing body condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the
municipality, the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action
at any time before trial.
(Prior Code, § 4-305)  (Ord. 126, passed 11-5-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-710
§ 92.30  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-502)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 4-501)
CHAPTER 93:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Municipal Property
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Maintenance and control
   
93.03   Sale and conveyance
   
93.04   Obstructions
   
93.05   Permitted obstructions
   
93.06   Weeds
   
93.07   Overhanging branches
   
93.08   Acquisition of property; construction; elections, when required
Sidewalks
   
93.20   Kept clean
   
93.21   Beneath
   
93.22   Repair
   
93.23   Construction by owner
   
93.24   Municipal construction
   
93.25   Construction bids
   
93.26   Construction by petition
Streets
   
93.40   Assignment of names and numbers
   
93.41   Widening or opening
   
93.42   Excavation
   
93.43   Driving stakes
   
93.44   Mixing concrete
   
93.45   Harmful liquids
   
93.46   Heavy equipment
   
93.47   Construction notice
   
93.48   Pipe lines and wires
   
93.49   Construction assessment
   
93.50   Petition for improvements
   
93.51   Improvement districts; objections
   
93.52   Improvement of streets on corporate limits
   
93.53   Improvement of main thoroughfares
   
93.54   Deferral from special assessments
   
93.55   Driveway approaches
   
93.56   Vacating public ways; definitions and ascertaining damages
   
93.57   Vacating public ways; procedure
   
93.58   Curb and gutter; cutting curb
 
   
93.99   Penalty
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 93.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
§ 93.02  MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The governing body shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and
free from nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 8-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 93.03  SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the power of the
municipality to convey any real and personal property owned by it, including
land used for park purposes and public squares, except real property used in
the operation of public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing
the sale at public auction or by sealed bid of such real and personal property
and the manner and terms thereof, except that such real and personal property
shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
         (a)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements
of federal or state grants or programs;
         (b)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
         (c)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
      (2)   The governing body may establish a minimum price for such real and
personal property at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for
a sealed bid.
   (B)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real and personal property described in division (A) above
and the terms thereof, shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
municipality; provided, if a remonstrance against such sale, signed by
registered voters thereof equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of
the municipality voting at the last regular municipal election held therein, be
filed with the governing body within 30 days after the third publication of the
notice, such property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold.
If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the municipality may
be conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, such property shall be conveyed strictly in
accordance with the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 to 18-1006.
   (C)   Following: passage of the resolution directing a sale; publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right of
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. Such sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale. The Municipal Clerk shall upon passage of such ordinance
certify the name of the purchaser to the Register of Deeds of the county in
which the property is located.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the sale of real and personal property
if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of an item or items of real and
personal property the total fair market value of which is less than $5,000.
Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice
of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the municipality
for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property.
Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Prior Code, § 8-103)  (Ord. 205, passed 1-9-1996)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503, 17-503.01
§ 93.04  OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs, growing upon, or near, the lot line, or upon public ground
and interfering with the use, or construction of any public improvements shall
be deemed an obstruction under this subchapter. Said roots may be removed by
the municipality at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the
tree is located should the owner fail, or neglect, after notice, to do so. It
shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation to obstruct, or
encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the
streets, alleys or sidewalks. The public ways and property shall be considered
to be obstructed when the owner or occupant of the adjacent property shall
permit or suffer to remain on any premises owned or controlled by him or her
any hedge, shrubbery, bush or similar growth within two feet adjacent to the
lot line whether there is a sidewalk abutting or adjoining such premises or
not. It shall be the duty of owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed
and pruned all such similar growth. Whenever any such growth is allowed to grow
within two feet of the lot line contrary to the provisions of this subchapter,
the governing body may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to
remove such obstructions within three days after having been served with a copy
of said resolution by the municipality stating that the municipality will do so
and will charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special
assessment for improvements as herein provided, or shall collect the same by
civil suit brought in the name of the municipality against the said owner or
occupant. It shall be the duty of an owner or occupant engaged in construction
of any building or improvement upon or near the public ways and property to
have all excavations or exposures of any kind protected and guarded by suitable
guards or barricades by day and by warning lights at night. In the event of
failure, neglect or refusal to comply with the provisions of this subchapter,
it shall be the duty of the municipality to stop all work upon said buildings
and improvements until suitable guards are erected and kept in the manner
aforesaid. Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public
ground and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting
property, but so close to the lot line as to interfere with the making of any
public improvement or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility
wires or pipe shall be deemed an obstruction and such trees, shrubs and roots
may be removed by the municipality pursuant to the procedure prescribed above.
In the event the property owner is a non- resident of the county in which the
property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-104)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 93.05  PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking or
repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the Utilities Superintendent to do so;
provided, no permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space, and more than one-
third of the roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate on which
said building is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired
shall be granted; and provided further, a suitable passageway for pedestrians
shall be maintained within the public space included in the permit which shall
be protected and lighted in the manner required by the official issuing the
permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-105)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06  WEEDS.
   (A)   It is hereby the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her
duly authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the
corporate limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and
noxious weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or
occupant thereof, to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be
practicably done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the
growing season for weeds; provided, any weeds growing in excess of eight inches
shall be considered a violation of this section.
   (B)   In the event that the owner of any lot or parcel of land within the
municipality is a non-resident of the municipality or cannot be found therein,
the notice may be given to any person having the care, custody or control of
such lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can be found no one within
the municipality to whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on
the premises and then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein
provided and report the cost thereof in writing to the governing body.
   (C)   The cost shall then be audited and paid by the municipality and the
amount thereof shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special
tax thereon and shall be collected as are other taxes of the municipality or
may be recovered by civil suit brought by the municipality against the owner of
the parcel of land.
   (D)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner.
   (E)   The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-106)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07  OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of said street or walk.
   (B)   Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over
streets or sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with
the lighting of the street from street lights, or with the convenience of the
public using said street or sidewalk, the governing body at any regular or
special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or
remove said obstructions within five days after having received a copy thereof
from the Utilities Superintendent stating that the municipality will remove
said branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a
special assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said resolution is
not complied with.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner.
   (D)   The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-107)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 93.08  ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION; ELECTIONS, WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   The municipality is authorized and empowered to: purchase; accept by
gift or devise; purchase real estate upon which to erect; and erect a building
or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, municipal building or community
house for housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and
other public buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same for the
benefit of the inhabitants of the municipality.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the municipality at a general municipal election or at an election duly called
for that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954, and be adopted by a
majority of the electors voting on such question.
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality and no election shall
be required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the municipality equal in number
to 15% of the registered voters of the municipality voting at the last regular
municipal election held therein and is filed with the governing body. If the
date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or
before the next business day. If a remonstrance with the necessary number of
qualified signatures is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the
voters of the municipality at a general municipal election or a special
election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction is not
approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year following
the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The governing body may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the governing body after notice and public hearing as provided
in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(Prior Code, § 8-108)  (Ord. 206, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953, 17-953.01
SIDEWALKS
§ 93.20  KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 8:00 a.m. the
following day; provided, sidewalks within the residential areas of the
municipality shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.21  BENEATH.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit therefor shall have been
obtained from the governing body. Before any permit shall be granted, the
applicant for said permit shall submit plans and specifications of any present
or proposed construction to the Municipal Engineer. Should such plans or
specifications be disapproved by him or her, no permit shall be granted
therefor. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the condition
that the party receiving the same shall build, maintain and keep in repair a
sidewalk over such space used or constructed to be used and pay all damages
that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason of said
sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition precedent
to the issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space
underneath the municipal sidewalks as herein contemplated, the governing body
may require applicant to furnish a bond to the municipality as obligee for the
benefit of any person or persons who may suffer any damage or damages by reason
of such use. The bond shall be in such sum as the governing body, in its
discretion, may designate.
(Prior Code, § 8-202)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22  REPAIR.
   (A)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may construct and repair
sidewalks, or cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as
the Chairperson and Board of Trustees deems necessary and may assess the
expense thereof on the property in front of which such construction or repairs
are made, after having given notice:
      (1)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
days prior to the commencement of such repair or construction.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   State that the governing body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (2)   Contain the municipality’s estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the property owner that he or she may, within ten days after
the date of publication of the notice, notify the municipality that he or she
will repair the sidewalk: within 30 days after such date of publication; and
      (4)   Notify the property owner that if he or she fails to so notify the
municipality within the ten days or, having so notified the municipality, fails
to repair the sidewalk within the 30 days, the municipality will cause the
sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof to be assessed against the
property.
   (C)   (1)   Before the municipality imposes any special assessments for
sidewalk repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be
mailed to the last-known address of all non-resident property owners as shown
on the current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published.
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested.
      (3)   For purposes of this division, NON-RESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER means
any person or corporation whose residence and mailing address as shown on the
current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of the county in which the property
subject to assessment is located and who is a record owner of the property.
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plan and
specifications as may be approved by the governing body.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in Neb. RS 17-524.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)  (Ord. 247, passed 9-5-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-310, 13-312, 13-314, 17-522
§ 93.23  CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file
such application in the office of the Municipal Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot, or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Utilities Superintendent shall issue the desired permit unless
good cause shall appear why said permit should be denied; provided, if it is
desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed
location, grade or elevation, the Utilities Superintendent shall submit the
application to the governing body who shall determine whether the permit should
be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or
cause to be constructed said sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation
than so designated by the municipality. All sidewalks shall be built and
constructed on the established grade, or elevation, and if there is no
established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated by the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-205)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24  MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, order construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality. Notice of the
governing body’s intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the
Municipal Clerk by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality.
   (B)   A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property, or, when personal service is not possible, said
notice shall be posted upon such premises ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the
municipal attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such
service shall include a form of return evidencing personal service or posting
as herein required.
   (C)   Said notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage of
the resolution ordering him or her to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication and further that if he or
she fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and
the cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premises; provided, the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost
of said construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall
be assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a non-
resident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-206)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522, 17-523
§ 93.25  CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   Whenever the municipality shall construct, widen, replace or reconstruct any
sidewalk, notice prepared by the Municipal Attorney, specifying the work to be
done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor shall be published in at least one issue of a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality; provided, bids so invited
shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk within ten days after the
date of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or special
meeting of the governing body, and the governing body shall then award the work
to the lowest responsible bidder. Upon approval of the work, the governing body
may require the contractor to accept payment in certificates issued to him or
her by the Municipal Clerk entitling him or her to all assessments or special
taxes, against such real estate whenever such assessments or special taxes,
shall be collected together with the interest or penalty collected thereon.
Each certificate shall give the legal description of the lot, lots or parcel of
ground against which the assessments or special taxes are assessed. Such
certificate or certificates may be assigned and transferred, entitling the
holder to the same rights as if held by the original contractor. The County
Treasurer shall pay over to such contractor or other holder of the certificate
or certificates all assessments or special taxes against such real estate,
together with the interest and penalty thereon, at any time upon presentation
of such certificate or certificates after said assessments or special taxes
against such real estate together with interest or penalty thereon shall have
been collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-207)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26  CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the front
footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for sidewalk
improvements, petition the governing body to make the same, the governing body
shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been ordered by it.
Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee simple of
property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the governing body
may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this subchapter upon the
freeholder making, executing and delivering to the municipality an agreement to
the effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the engineering service fee
and all other incidental construction costs until paid shall be a perpetual
lien upon the real estate along which the freeholder desires such sidewalk to
be constructed and that the petitioner gives and grants to the municipality the
right to assess and levy the costs of such construction against the
freeholder’s real estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and promises to pay
such costs with interest. The total cost of such improvement shall be levied,
allocated, financed and specially assessed as provided by law. In the event the
property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the
municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the non-
resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on
the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-208)  Penalty, see §
93.99
STREETS
§ 93.40  ASSIGNMENT OF NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   (A)   Identification of streets. Every street located within the corporate
limits of the village shall be identified by a name on the recorded plat
thereof and a copy of such recorded plat placed on file in the office of the
Village Clerk before any construction shall be permitted thereon.
   (B)   Assignment of street numbers. At the time of the application for a
building permit, the Village Clerk shall assign a street number to each
residence or principal business structure to be constructed upon real estate
within the corporate limits of the village, which street number will be
utilized in all cases for the purpose of identifying the location of that
residence or business structure.
   (C)   Duty to install. It shall be duty of the owner, agent, lessee or
occupant of any residence of principal business structure within the corporate
limits of the village to place, or cause to be installed and maintained, on
such residence or principal business structure, a proper street number as
assigned by the Village Clerk.
   (D)   Minimum requirements of size and coloring. The figures of each number
shall be not less than two and one-half inches in height. Each figure shall be
plain, legible and of contrasting color with its background. The numbers shall
be maintained in such condition at all times.
   (E)   Location of numbering. The street number shall be placed on the
residence or principal business structure in a conspicuous place as near as may
be to the main entrance thereto so that it may be easily seen from the street
extending in front of said residence or principal business structure. The
requirement for street numbers as specified in this subchapter shall be the
minimum requirement. The owner, agent, lessee or occupant of any principal
building may place such other correct house numbers on such building as deemed
necessary, so long as the minimum requirements of this subchapter are met.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)  (Ord. 155, passed 8-6-1991)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.41  WIDENING OR OPENING.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall have power to open, widen or otherwise improve
or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the village
and also to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or lane. All
damages sustained by the citizens of the village, or by the owners of the
property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by
ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall revert to
the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side thereof, and
become a part of that property, unless the village reserves title in the
ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the village,
such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and
conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the village.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title
is retained by the village, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or
leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests
of the village.
      (4)   When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register
of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the village, any public utilities and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, on or below the
surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the time title to
the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general public or the
abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish such purposes
at any and all reasonable times.
   (B)   The village shall have power to create, open, widen or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or annul,
vacate or discontinue the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-302)  (Ord. 247, passed 9-5-2006)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558, 17-559
§ 93.42  EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Utilities Superintendent authorizing such excavations.
(Prior Code, § 8-303)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.43  DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-304)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.44  MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-305)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.45  HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon said streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-306)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.46  HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or person to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets the municipal police are hereby
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or metal-type
studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive of the
stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more
than seven sixty-fourths of an inch between October 1, and April 15; provided,
that school buses and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or
metal-type studs all year; it shall be permissible to use farm machinery with
tires having protuberances which will not injure the streets. It shall be
permissible to use a rubber tired crane with a fixed load when such vehicle
will be transported on a state highway or on any road within the corporate
limits of the municipality, the municipality in which the crane is intended to
be transported has authorized a one-day permit for the transportation of the
crane and specified the route to be used and the hours during which the crane
can be transported, such vehicle is escorted by another vehicle or vehicles
assigned by the municipality, and such vehicle’s gross weight does not exceed
the limits set out in Neb. RS 60-2,294 and it shall be permissible to use tire
chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety
because of snow, ice or other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or
skid.
(Prior Code, § 8-307)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,250
§ 93.47  CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The Utilities Superintendent shall notify the owners in fee simple of real
estate abutting a street, alley or a part thereof which is to be put under
contract for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas,
electric service and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all
consumers of gas, water and sewer services which will be discontinued during
such construction. Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper
at least 20 days prior to the beginning of such construction by the party
undertaking such construction and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer and
underground connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the
street under construction. After expiration of such time, permits for
excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed, until after the
completion of the pavement in said street or alley, and the formal final
acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-308)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.48  PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon or under the streets,
alleys and common grounds of the municipality. Application for location of the
above shall be made to the governing body in writing. Approval by that body
shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a right-of-way
for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and
wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe
lines and other appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be
designated by the governing body. Such poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and
other appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by said companies at their
own expense when requested to do so by the governing body. Any such relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the governing body and the Municipal Clerk
shall notify any and all companies affected. Said companies shall, within 24
hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed. The governing body
shall designate another location as closely as possible where said poles,
wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances, may be reset or placed.
All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances, shall be reset,
placed or erected in such a manner that they will not interfere with the water
system; sewerage system; poles, wires and mains of any public utility; adjacent
buildings; or with travel on the public ways and property. Whenever possible,
all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or appurtenances shall be confined
to the alleys of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.49  CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue,
alley or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body sitting as
the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
governing body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as “special assessments for improvements” and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent said assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of
the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying
any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-310)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511, 17-524
§ 93.50  PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way or the public grounds proposed to be
improved, shall be presented and filed with the Municipal Clerk, petitioning
therefor, the governing body shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling or
other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such work to be done
or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and shall levy
assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such
street, streets, alley or alleys, especially benefitted thereby in such
district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of such improvement.
The governing body shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the
proposed district when the area has not previously been improved with a water
system, sewer system and grading of streets. If the governing body should deny
a requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for such
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Prior Code, § 8-311)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-510
§ 93.51  IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   Whenever the governing body deems it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute which are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on
the property especially benefitted, the governing body shall by ordinance
create a paving, graveling or other improvement district and, after the
passage, approval and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish
notice of the creation of any such district for six days in a legal newspaper
of the municipality, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive weeks if it
is a weekly newspaper. If no legal newspaper is published in the municipality,
the publication shall be in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality. If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of
the front footage of the property directly abutting on the street or alley to
be improved file with the Municipal Clerk within 20 days after the first
publication of such notice written objections to the creation of such district,
such improvement shall not be made as provided in such ordinance, but such
ordinance shall be repealed. If objections are not filed against the district
in the time and manner prescribed in this section, the governing body shall
immediately cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made, shall
contract for the work or improvement, and shall levy assessments on the lots
and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such street or alley especially
benefitted in such district in proportion to such benefits to pay the cost of
such improvement.
(Prior Code, § 8-312)  (Ord. 207, passed 11-9-1996)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511
§ 93.52  IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall have the power to improve any
street or part thereof which divides the municipal corporate area and the area
adjoining the municipality. When creating an improvement district including
land adjacent to the municipality, the Board of Trustees shall have power to
assess, to the extent of special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon
the properties found especially benefitted thereby.
(Prior Code, § 8-313)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-509
§ 93.53  IMPROVEMENT OF MAIN THOROUGHFARES.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall have the power by a three-
fourths vote of the governing body, to create by ordinance a paving, graveling
or other improvement district and to order such work done upon any federal or
state highway in the municipality or upon a street or route, designated by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees as a main thoroughfare that connects, on both
ends, to either a federal or state highway or a county road. The governing body
shall contract therefor and shall have the power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefitted thereby.
(Prior Code, § 8-314)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-512
§ 93.54  DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of a municipality creates a paving
district which includes land adjacent to the municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For purposes of this section, the terms AGRICULTURAL USE and
AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the governing
body of the municipality within 90 days after creation of the paving district.
      (1)   Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral
provided by this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such
application in writing prior to approval by the governing body.
      (2)   The governing body shall approve the application of any owner of
record title upon determination that the property: is within an agricultural
use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use; and the owner has met
the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body to
remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
below;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which such assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result or a sale or transfer described in divisions (C)(2) or (C)(3) above,
the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such
sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-315)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431
§ 93.55  DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Utilities Superintendent may require the owner of property served
by a driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way
to repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such driveway
approach. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such approach.
(Prior Code, § 8-316)  (Ord. 109, passed 12-4-1984)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 93.56  VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; DEFINITIONS AND ASCERTAINING DAMAGES.
   (A)   Special damages shall mean only those losses or damages or injuries
which a property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or
her property, and which result from the governing body vacating such street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public ways. Special damages shall not mean
those losses or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in
common with the rest of the village or public at large, even though those
losses or damages or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in
degree than the rest of the village or public at large.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested
residents of the municipality to a Special Commission to ascertain the amount
of special damages that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive
and which resulted from the governing body vacating such street, avenue, alley,
lane or similar public way. The appointees of the Special Commission shall be
approved by the Board of Trustees. Only special damages, as herein defined,
shall be awarded to the abutting property owners.
   (C)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the aforementioned Commission shall use the
following rule: The abutting property owner is entitled to recover as
compensation the difference between the value of such property immediately
before and immediately after the vacating of such street, avenue, alley, lane
or similar public way. However, if no difference in value exists the abutting
property owner is entitled to no compensation.
(Prior Code, § 8-317)  (Ord. 133, passed 10-7-1986)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558, 17-559
§ 93.57  VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
   Whenever the governing body decides that it would be in the best interests
of the municipality to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public
way, the governing body shall comply with the following procedure.
   (A)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners either
by First Class mail to their last known address or if there is no known address
then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general circulation in
the municipality. The content of the notice will advise the abutting property
owners that the governing body will consider vacating such street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way at their next regular meeting or if a special
meeting is scheduled for such discussion, then the date, time and place of such
meeting.
   (B)   Consent/waiver. The governing body may have all the abutting property
owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken by the
governing body and waive their right of access. The signing of such form has no
effect on claims for special damages, as defined in §§
93.56 by the abutting property owners, but does create the presumption that the
governing body’s action was proper. However, if all the abutting property
owners do not sign the consent/waiver form, the governing body may still
proceed with vacating such street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way
under the authority granted them by Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559.
   (C)   Ordinance. The governing body shall pass an ordinance that shall state
essentially the following:
      (1)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good or
in the best interests of the municipality;
      (2)   A statement that the municipality shall have an easement for
maintaining all utilities; and
      (3)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to abutting
property owners.
   (D)   Filing. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinance with the County
Register of Deeds to ensure that abutting property owners can gain title to
their share of the vacated street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way
and so that such land will be drawn to the attention of the County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 8-318)  (Ord. 134, passed 10-7-1986)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558, 17-559
§ 93.58  CURB AND GUTTER; CUTTING CURB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or sidewalk
for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose whatsoever
without first having obtained a written permit from the governing body
therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or she shall inform the
Municipal Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be
the Utilities Superintendent’s duty to inspect the place of entry into the
paving, sidewalk or curb, before the same is cut. When cutting into any paving,
it shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under such rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by the governing body or the Municipal
Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he or she
shall inform the Utilities Superintendent, who shall supervise and inspect the
materials used and the work done in closing the opening. It shall be
discretionary with the governing body to order the Utilities Superintendent, to
do the work of cutting and closing the paving and charge the costs thereof to
the party who obtained such permit. The governing body may consent to the work
of cutting and closing the paving to be done by the party holding such permit.
Before any permit is issued by the governing body, the applicant for such
permit shall deposit with the Municipal Treasurer a sum set by resolution of
the governing body for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall
be set on a per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be
retained by the municipality for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or
sidewalk, in the event the work is done by the municipality. In the event the
municipality elects to require the applicant to replace the paving, curb or
sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the municipality until the work is
completed to the satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent or of the
committee of the governing body on streets and alleys. In addition to making
the deposit above set forth, the applicant shall, before any permit is issued,
execute a bond to the municipality with a good and sufficient surety or
sureties to be approved by the governing body in a sum set by resolution of the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 8-401)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
      
112.   LIVE ENTERTAINMENT
      
113.   OCCUPATION TAXES
CHAPTER 110:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Location
   
110.04   Dwellings
   
110.05   License displayed
   
110.06   Licensee requirements
   
110.07   Liquor application; municipal examination
   
110.08   Liquor license renewal
   
110.09   Municipal powers and duties
   
110.10   Owner of premises
   
110.11   Employer
   
110.12   Minors and incompetents
   
110.13   Credit sales
   
110.14   Spiking beer
   
110.15   Original package
   
110.16   Minor’s presence
   
110.17   Hours of sale
   
110.18   Sanitary conditions
   
110.19   Hiring minors
   
110.20   Consumption in public places
   
110.21   Acquisition and possession
   
110.22   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
   
110.23   Inspections
   
110.24   Citizen complaints
   
110.25   Retail licensing standards; binding recommendations
   
110.26   Liquor application; notice; procedure
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Live Entertainment, see
Chapter 112
   Occupation Taxes, see
Chapter 113
   Peddlers and Hawkers, see
Chapter 111
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions as applied
thereto, as defined in the Liquor Control Act of the state.
(Prior Code, § 10-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-103
§ 110.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the State
Liquor Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 10-102)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 110.03  LOCATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain,
manage or hold open to the public any establishment for the purpose of selling
at retail any alcoholic liquor within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital
or home for aged or indigent persons or veterans, their wives or children;
provided, this prohibition shall not apply to any location within such distance
when the said establishment has been license by the State Liquor Control
Commission at least two years, and to hotels offering restaurant service,
regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants where the selling of alcoholic
liquors is not the principal business carried on, if the said hotel, club or
restaurant were licensed and in operation prior to May 24, 1935.
   (B)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college within the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 10-103)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-177
§ 110.04  DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
sold at retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such
premises to any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging
purposes, and which is permitted to be used by the public.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall prevent any connection with such premises, and
such other portion of the building which is used only by the licensee, his or
her family, or personal guests.
(Prior Code, § 10-104)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-178
§ 110.05  LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on
the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-105)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-148
§ 110.06  LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own an establishment that
sells at retail any alcoholic beverages unless said person is a resident of the
county in which the premises is located; a person of good character and
reputation; a citizen of the United States; a person who has never been
convicted of a felony or any Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter
28, Article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12, or any similar offense under a prior
criminal statute or in another state; a person who has never had a liquor
license revoked for cause; a person whose premises, for which a license is
sought, meets standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire
Marshal; or a person who has not acquired a beneficial interest in more than
two alcoholic beverage retail establishments since March 4, 1963; provided, the
beneficial interest requirement in this section shall not apply to a person
applying for an additional license for use in connection with the operation of
a hotel containing at least 25 sleeping rooms, or where the request is limited
to on premises sale of beer only in a restaurant.
(Prior Code, § 10-106)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-124.03, 53-125
§ 110.07  LIQUOR APPLICATION; MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic
liquor at retail shall file an application with the Liquor Control Commission.
Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the application as
provided in Neb. RS 53-131, the governing body shall fix a time and place at
which a hearing will be held, and at which time the governing body shall
receive evidence, under oath, either orally, or in writing, from the applicant
and any other person concerning the propriety of the issuance of such license.
Such hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the receipt of notice
from the Commission. The governing body may examine, or cause to be examined,
under oath, any applicant; examine, or cause to be examined, the books and
records of any such applicant; to hear testimony, and to take proof for its
information in the performance of its duties. For purposes of obtaining any of
the information desired, the governing body may authorize its agent, the
Municipal Clerk or the Municipal Attorney, to act on its behalf.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a
legal newspaper in, or of general circulation in, the municipality one time not
less than seven, nor more than 14, days before the time of the hearing. Such
notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all persons
desiring to give evidence before the governing body in support of or in protest
against the issuance of such license may do so at the time of the hearing.
   (C)   The governing body shall, after the hearing provided in division (A)
above, approve or deny the application within 45 days of receipt of such
application from the Commission, and shall cause to be spread at large in the
minute record of its proceedings a resolution approving or denying such
application. The Municipal Clerk shall thereupon mail or deliver to the
Commission a copy of the resolution within ten days of the decision to approve
or deny the application.
   (D)   Any resolution denying an application rendered by the governing body
shall be in writing or stated in the record and shall be accompanied by
findings. The findings shall consist of concise statements of the conclusions
upon each contested issue. The applicant shall be notified of the decision in
person or by mail.
(Prior Code, § 10-107)  (Ord. 168, passed 4-6-1993)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132, 53-134
§ 110.08  LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Retail or bottle club licenses issued by the Commission and outstanding may
be automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the governing body to
require the said licensee to issue an application for renewal. Any licensed
retail or bottle club establishment located in an area which is annexed to the
municipality shall file a formal application for a license, and while such
application is pending, the licensee shall be authorized to continue all
license privileges pursuant to this chapter until the original license expires,
is canceled or revoked. If such license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of such area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year. The Municipal Clerk, upon notice from
the Commission, between January 10 and January 30 of each year, shall cause to
be published in a legal newspaper in, or of general circulation in the
municipality, one time, a notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the
municipality; provided, Class C license renewal notices shall be published
between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. The Municipal Clerk
shall then file with the Commission proof of publication of said notice on or
before February 10 of each year or August 10 of each year for Class C licenses.
Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the governing body
may request a licensee to submit an application.
(Prior Code, § 10-108)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-135, 53-135.01
§ 110.09  MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The governing body is authorized to regulate by ordinance not
inconsistent with the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act, the business
of all retail and bottle club licensees carried on within the corporate limits.
   (B)   The governing body shall further have the power and duties in respect
to licensed retailers of alcoholic beverages to cancel or revoke for cause
retail or bottle club licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquors issued to
persons for premises within its jurisdiction subject to the right of appeal to
the Commission; to enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter
at any time upon any premises licensed by the state to determine whether any of
the provisions of the municipal laws, or the laws of the state, are being
violated; to receive signed complaints from any citizens within its
jurisdiction that any of the municipal laws, or laws of the state, are being
violated, and to act upon such complaints in the manner herein provided; to
cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same notice and
hearing as provided in §
110.24, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the State Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance or
regulation duly enacted relating to alcoholic liquors; and to collect for the
benefit of the state and the municipality all license fees and occupation taxes
as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 10-109)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 110.10  OWNER OF PREMISES.
   The owner of any premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the said
licensed premises in violation of any municipal code section or state statute.
(Prior Code, § 10-110)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,101
§ 110.11  EMPLOYER.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act of
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the said act
or omission had been committed by him or her personally.
(Prior Code, § 10-111)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,102
§ 110.12  MINORS AND INCOMPETENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, give away, dispose
of, exchange, permit the sale of or make a gift of, any alcoholic liquors, or
to procure any such alcoholic liquors to or for any minor, or to any person who
is mentally incompetent.
(Prior Code, § 10-112)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-180
§ 110.13  CREDIT SALES.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person or
persons for credit of any kind, barter or services rendered; provided, nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club holding a Class C
license from permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed
by members, or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of the said
members or guests in accordance with the by-laws of any such club; and provided
further, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any hotel or restaurant
holding a retail alcoholic beverage license from permitting checks or
statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing in the said
hotel, and charged to the accounts of such guests.
(Prior Code, § 10-113)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-183
§ 110.14  SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to serve or
offer for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol, or permit
any person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of
such licensee.
(Prior Code, § 10-114)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.15  ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor contained in casks, or other
containers except in the original package. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly
private use and not for resale.
(Prior Code, § 10-115)  (Ord. 171, passed 4-6-1993)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-184
§ 110.16  MINOR’S PRESENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years to frequent or otherwise remain in the said establishment
unless the said minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian,
and unless said minor remains seated with, and under the immediate control of,
the said parent or legal guardian.
(Prior Code, § 10-116)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-154.03
§ 110.17  HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the municipality, except during
the hours provided herein:
      (1)   Alcoholic liquors (except beer and wine):
         (a)   Secular days:
            1.   Off-sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.; and
            2.   On-sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
         (b)   Sundays:
            1.   Off-sale: prohibited; and
            2.   On-sale: 6:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m.
      (2)   Beer and wine
         (a)   Secular days:
            1.   Off-sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.; and
            2.   On-sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
         (b)   Sundays:
            1.   Off-sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.; and
            2.   On-sale: 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
   (B)   Provided, that such limitations shall not apply after 12:00 noon on
Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation holding a license
pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.
   (C)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises. For
the purposes of this section, ON-SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages
sold by the drink for consumption on the premises of the licensed
establishment; OFF-SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold at retail
in the original container for consumption off the premises of the licensed
establishment.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-117)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 110.18  SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premises
shall be subject to any health inspections the governing body or the municipal
police may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses
shall be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a
report concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for, or renewal of, a liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 10-118)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 110.19  HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, to
said licensee’s customers.
(Prior Code, § 10-119)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 110.20  CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages
within the corporate limits upon the public ways and property, including inside
vehicles while upon the public ways and property.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic
beverages within any other public business that is not a licensed liquor
establishment.
(Prior Code, § 10-120)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186, 53-186.01
§ 110.21  ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire, accept or
possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other than one duly
licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under the State Liquor Control Act;
provided, nothing in this section shall prevent:
   (A)   The possession of alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the
possessor and his or her family and guests, as long as the quantity of
alcoholic liquor transported, imported, brought or shipped into the state does
not exceed nine liters in any one calendar month;
   (B)   The making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person from
fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation
and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker and his or
her family and guests;
   (C)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing or
using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of such hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
   (D)   The possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
or religious ceremony conducted by such church;
   (E)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic liquor
from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a minor;
   (F)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic liquor
containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
   (G)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing of
alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and customers
in the course of their employment; or
   (H)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Prior Code, § 10-121)  (Ord. 208, passed 1-9-1996)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06, 53-175, 53-194.03
§ 110.22  REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take such intoxicated person to his or her home or to place such
person in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism center or with a medical doctor as
may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury. Such effort at
placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer contacts those facilities
or doctor which have previously represented a willingness to accept and treat
such individuals and which regularly do accept such individuals. If such
efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may then place such
intoxicated person in civil protective custody, except that civil protective
custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve life or to
prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24 hours. The placement
of such person in civil protective custody shall be recorded at the facility or
jail at which he or she is delivered and communicated to his or her family or
next of kin, if they can be located, or to such person designated by the person
taken into civil protective custody.
   (B)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for such actions. The taking of an
individual into civil protective custody under this section shall not be
considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that
the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any public
right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or other state, county or
municipally-owned property.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean and
include private or publicly-owned property utilized for proprietary or business
uses which invites patronage by the public or which invites public ingress and
egress.
(Prior Code, § 10-122)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,121
§ 110.23  INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the governing body to cause frequent inspections to
be made on the premises of all retail and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of the State Liquor Control
Act or regulations of the State Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to
observe in good faith the purposes of said Act, the license may be suspended,
canceled or revoked after the licensee has been given an opportunity to be
heard by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 10-123)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-116.01
§ 110.24  CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any five residents of the municipality shall have the right to file a
complaint with the governing body stating that any retail or bottle club
licensee, subject to the jurisdiction of the governing body, has been or is
violating any provision of the State Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Such complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the
governing body and shall be signed and sworn by the parties complaining. The
complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or regulation believed to
have been violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based.
   (C)   If the governing body is satisfied that the complaint substantially
charges a violation and that from the fact alleged there is reasonable cause
for such belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within ten days from the
date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of
the time and place of such hearing and of the particular charge in the
complaint; provided, that the complaint must in all cases be disposed of by the
governing body within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by
resolution thereof, said resolution shall be deemed the final order for
purposes of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 10-124)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134.04
§ 110.25  RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS; BINDING RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   Local governing bodies shall only have authority to approve
applications and deny licenses pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   The governing body shall only consider the following licensing
standards and criteria at the hearing and an evaluation of any applicant for a
retail alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell
alcoholic liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the premises,
and for the purpose of formulating a recommendation from the governing body to
the State Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the State Liquor Control
Act:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
      (4)   Zoning restrictions and the local governing body’s zoning and land
use policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizen’s protest and similar evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population and projected growth within the
jurisdiction of the local governing body and within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of each such license, and
the distance and times of travel between establishments that issued such
licenses;
      (9)   Whether the proposed license would be compatible with the
neighborhood or community where the proposed premises are located;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
or presently operated in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be
consistent with the public interest as declared in Neb. RS 53-101.01;
      (11)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with Neb. RS
53-168.06;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect
against the possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic liquor, which alcoholic
liquor shall be displayed and kept in and sold from an area which is reasonably
secured;
      (13)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing and able to properly provide
the service proposed in conformance with all provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the act;
      (14)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensee can conform to all the provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the act;
      (15)   The background information of the applicant established by
information contained in the public records of the Commission and
investigations conducted by law enforcement agencies;
      (16)   Past evidence of discrimination involving the applicant as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
local governing body, any other governmental board or agency of the local
governing body, any other governmental unit, or any court of law;
      (17)   Whether the applicant or the applicant’s representatives
suppressed any fact or provided any inaccurate information to the Commission or
local governing body or the employees of the Commission in regard to the
license application or liquor investigations. The applicant shall be required
to cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the investigating agents of the
local governing body;
      (18)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, parks
and public institutions;
      (19)   Whether activities proposed to be conducted on the licensed
premises or in adjacent related outdoor areas will create unreasonable noise or
disturbance; and
      (20)   Compliance with state laws, liquor rules and regulations, and
municipal ordinances and regulations and whether or not the applicant has ever
forfeited bond to appear in court to answer charges of having committed a
felony or charges of having violated any law or ordinance enacted in the
interest of good morals and decency or has been convicted of violating or has
forfeited bond to appear in court and answer charges for violating any law or
ordinance relating to alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   It shall be the applicant’s duty to produce evidence pertaining to the
designated criteria prescribed in this section. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable for
purposes of this section, APPLICANT shall be synonymous with LICENSEE.
(Prior Code, § 10-125)  (Ord. 130, passed 6-3-1986; Ord. 169, passed 4-6-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 110.26  LIQUOR APPLICATION; NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134 shall be
given to the applicant by the Municipal Clerk and shall contain the date, time
and location of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are legally or
factually related may be heard and considered together unless any party thereto
makes a showing sufficient to satisfy the governing body that prejudice would
result there from.
   (B)   Procedure. Hearings will be informal and conducted by the Municipal
Attorney. The intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial action.
Each witness may present their testimony in narrative fashion or by question
and answer. The governing body or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
      (1)   The governing body may admit and give probative effect to evidence
which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably prudent
individuals. The Municipal Attorney may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to any
application and such opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments
and to cross-examine the applicant and any witnesses in favor of such
application, they shall choose a spokesperson to perform such function who
shall notify the Municipal Attorney of his or her representation prior to the
start of the hearing.
      (2)   The order of the proceeding is as follows:
         (a)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented to
the Municipal Attorney during the presentation;
         (b)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses and arguments by applicant;
         (c)   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed
license;
         (d)   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by Municipal
Attorney, governing body or duly appointed agent;
         (e)   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
         (f)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
         (g)   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to such proposed
license;
         (h)   Presentation of evidence by municipality and law enforcement
personnel;
         (I)   Cross-examination by applicant;
         (j)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties, and by municipality
administration and agent; and
         (k)   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
      (3)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application.
      (4)   Any member of the governing body and the Municipal Attorney may
question any witness, call witnesses or request information.
      (5)   All witnesses shall be sworn.
      (6)   The governing body may make further inquiry and investigation
following the hearing.
      (7)   The governing body or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk at the expense of the applicants).
(Prior Code, § 10-126)  (Ord. 170, passed 4-6-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-801)
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
Section
   
111.01   Regulation
   
111.02   Exceptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  REGULATION.
   (A)   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous and unhealthful goods and
services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all peddlers and
hawkers shall, before doing business within the municipality, make application
for, and be issued a permit.
   (B)   Application for said permit shall be made to the Municipal Clerk, and
shall contain all the necessary information and documents required for the
protection of the residents of the municipality.
   (C)   Any person or persons granted a peddler and hawker permit shall be
subject to any fees, occupation taxes and other rules and regulations which the
governing body deems appropriate for the purposes stated herein.
   (D)   Any permit so granted shall be subject to revocation for good and
sufficient cause by the municipal police.
(Prior Code, § 10-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134, 17-525
§ 111.02  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person, or persons,
selling produce raised within the county, or to wholesale salespeople
soliciting merchants directly, or to a representative of a nonprofit or charity
organization soliciting on behalf of that organization.
(Prior Code, § 10-202)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-801)
CHAPTER 112:  LIVE ENTERTAINMENT
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Permit required
   
112.03   Permit; application
   
112.04   Permit, requirements
   
112.05   Matters to be considered by Village Board
   
112.06   Permit issuance
   
112.07   Expiration of permit
   
112.08   Permit revocation
   
112.09   Minors
   
112.10   Acts prohibited
   
112.11   Hours
   
112.12   Action by village upon nonpayment
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSED PREMISES.  Any premises for which a liquor license as provided by
Neb. RS 53-124, as now existing or hereinafter amended, has been issued.
   LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.  Performances of any kind or nature provided for the
entertainment and enjoyment of patrons or members of any licensed premises.
Such definition shall include stage shows, floor shows, singing, dancing by
entertainers, patrons or members either to live musical accompaniment or
mechanical amusement devices and any other form of entertainment provided for
patrons or members or designed for their participation therein.
   MINOR.  Any person under the age of 19 years, regardless of marital status.
   PERSON.  Includes any person, firm, partnership, association of persons,
joint stock company or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
§ 112.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   From and after April 4, 1972, it shall be unlawful for any person owning,
operating, managing or conducting any licensed premises in the village, to
conduct, maintain, permit or allow live entertainment as defined above upon
such licensed premises without first having obtained a permit as hereinafter
provided.
(Prior Code, § 10-302)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03  PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   Every person owning, operating, managing or conducting a licensed premises
and desiring to conduct, maintain, permit or allow live entertainment thereon
shall file a written application for a permit with the Village Clerk, which
application shall have the name of the applicant, the location of the licensed
premises for which the permit is sought, together with a floor plan of such
premises giving in detail the dimensions and diagram of the spaces to be used
for live entertainment, stages, dressing rooms and check rooms and indicating
the separate toilet rooms for men and women, entrances, exits, stairways,
elevators and fire escapes, and the type of construction of such premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-303)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  PERMIT, REQUIREMENTS.
   No permit shall be issued pursuant to this chapter to any applicant unless
the licensed premises to be used by such applicant complies in all respects
with the provisions of this chapter and any other ordinances of the village,
and unless the licensed premises are properly ventilated and supplied with
proper and sufficient toilet conveniences, and in the opinion of the Village
Board, is a fit and safe place in which to permit live entertainment.
(Prior Code, § 10-304)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05  MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Village Board reserves the right, in passing upon every application
provided for by §
112.03 to consider the character, reputation and responsibility of the
applicant, the fitness of the licensed premises and its facilities, the
location or building in which it is contained, and any objection that may exist
against the issuing of a permit to the applicant, and any other matters which
the Board, in its discretion, deems pertinent to such application.
(Prior Code, § 10-305)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06  PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   If the Village Board, after considering the application for permit and
all pertinent information related thereto, approves the application, it shall,
by resolution, direct the Village Clerk to issue a live entertainment permit to
the applicant, such permit to be issued in the name of the licensed premises.
Such permit shall be valid only for the licensed premises and shall not be
transferable by sale, assignment or in any other manner.
   (B)   Every permit holder shall cause his or her permit to be framed and
hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)
§ 112.07  EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   All permits granted under the provisions of this chapter shall expire
on March 30 following the date of issuance, unless revoked prior thereto.
   (B)   Such permits shall be automatically renewed on April 1 of each year
unless the Village Board requests, in writing, that the permit holder submit an
application as provided in §
112.03.
(Prior Code, § 10-307)
§ 112.08  PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Village Board shall, on its own motion, have the authority to revoke any
permit if, upon fair and impartial hearing after at least ten days prior notice
thereof having been given to the permit holder, it determines that the permit
holder, or any person employed by such permit holder, has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter or any provision of Neb. RS Chapter 53 and the rules
and regulations promulgated thereunder pertaining to liquors.
(Prior Code, § 10-308)
§ 112.09  MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor as defined in §
112.01 to participate in any live entertainment or to enter or remain in that
portion of any licensed premises where live entertainment is maintained, and it
shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating or managing any licensed
premises where live entertainment is conducted, maintained, permitted or
allowed to permit any minor to participate in any live entertainment or to
enter or remain in that portion of the licensed premises where live
entertainment is maintained; provided, that the above prohibitions shall not
apply to minors entering, remaining or participating in live entertainment on
licensed premises when such minors are accompanied at all times by a parent or
legal guardian of each such minor.
(Prior Code, § 10-309)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10  ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in any licensed premises to
conduct or participate in any dance of coarse or vulgar character or which is
offensive to public morals or decency.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or indulge in any
indecent or disorderly conduct or any lewd or lascivious behavior, or to use
any profane or obscene language in any licensed premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any licensed premises
in a state of nudity or in any indecent or lewd dress.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any licensed premises to permit or allow any of the above prohibited
acts.
(Prior Code, § 10-310)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11  HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any licensed premises to conduct, maintain, permit or allow any live
entertainment on such licensed premises between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 11:
00 a.m. each day except that on December 31, commonly known as New Year’s Eve;
July 4, commonly known as Independence Day; November 11, commonly known as
Veteran’s Day; Thanksgiving Day and December 25, known as Christmas, such live
entertainment may be continued until 3:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 10-311)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12  ACTION BY VILLAGE UPON NONPAYMENT.
   If any person owning, operating, managing or conducting any licensed
premises wherein live entertainment is conducted, maintained, permitted or
allowed fails to make payment of the occupation tax as herein provided and at
the time hereinbefore specified, the village shall have the right and may sue
any such person in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the
occupation tax due and payable under the terms and provisions of this chapter,
and may recover a judgment against such person for the amount so due and may
have execution thereon.
(Prior Code, § 10-312)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-801)
CHAPTER 113:  OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
113.01   Amounts
   
113.02   Fire insurance companies
   
113.03   Collection date
   
113.04   Certificates
   
113.05   Failure to pay
   
113.06   Levied; amount
   
113.07   Sales to federal and state governments and the like exempt from tax
   
113.08   When payable; interest and penalties for payments in default
   
113.09   To whom payable and the like; receipt; disposition
   
113.10   Monthly report of gross income
   
113.11   Adjustments
   
113.12   Right of village to inspect records and the like
   
113.13   Amount and the like of tax when report filed or inspection refused
   
113.14   Right of village to sue and the like; when payment not made
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue an occupation tax is hereby levied on the
following businesses:
   (A)   Liquor license: $250; occupation tax: $20, plus publishing costs, set
by Clerk;
   (B)   Fire insurance companies: $5;
   (C)   Live entertainment: $20;
   (D)   Peddlers and hawkers, per year: $350; per month: $50.
(Prior Code, § 10-501)  (Ord. 149, passed 6-5-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 113.02  FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department, all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on Fire Insurance Companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(Prior Code, § 10-502)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 35-106
§ 113.03  COLLECTION DATE.
   (A)   All occupation taxes shall be due, and payable on April 1 of each
year, except in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon the
payment thereof by any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk, the said Clerk
shall give a receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person paying the said
tax, and the amount paid; provided, occupation taxes collected from Class C
liquor licensees shall be due and payable on November 1.
   (B)   The revenue collected shall then be immediately deposited into the
General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The Municipal Treasurer shall keep an
accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and
receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be
kept by each party in the transaction.
(Prior Code, § 10-503)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 113.04  CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person, and business that paid the said tax. The
occupation tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place, or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible, while business is being
conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-504)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 113.05  FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company or corporation fails, or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due, and payable, the
municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-505)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 113.06  LEVIED; AMOUNT.
   Except as provided in TSO, Table II, any person engaged in the business of
distributing, manufacturing or furnishing natural gas in the village shall be
required to pay to the village an occupation tax in an amount equal to 3% of
the gross receipts of such person derived from his or her business of
distributing, manufacturing or furnishing gas to the inhabitants of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 10-506)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 113.07  SALES TO FEDERAL AND STATE GOVERNMENTS AND THE LIKE EXEMPT FROM TAX.
   Any person engaged in the business of selling, distributing and furnishing
natural, or manufactured, or mixed gas in the village shall not be required to
pay the occupation tax provided for by §
113.06 on any of the receipts received from the sale of such gas to the United
States government, or any of its departments, or any of the political
subdivisions thereof, and no part or portion of the tax provided for in such
section shall be levied upon or assessed against or taken from the United
States government, the government of the state or any of either or their
departments or political subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 10-507)
§ 113.08  WHEN PAYABLE; INTEREST AND PENALTIES FOR PAYMENTS IN DEFAULT.
   The occupation tax levied pursuant to §
113.06 shall be due and payable on the fifteenth day of each month for the
gross receipts of the month preceding such date, and each and every payment
shall be made on the fifteenth day of each month, and all payments shall draw
interest at the rate of 1% per month, and after payment has been in default six
months, a penalty of 5% shall be added thereto in addition to such interest
charge which shall be paid by any person subject to this occupation tax.
(Prior Code, § 10-508)
§ 113.09  TO WHOM PAYABLE AND THE LIKE; RECEIPT; DISPOSITION.
   All occupation taxes collected in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid to the Village Treasurer at the time specified in this
chapter, and such Treasurer shall issue and deliver a receipt therefor upon
payment thereof, and the amount so paid shall be credited by the Village
Treasurer to the General Fund of the village, unless otherwise directed by the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 10-509)
§ 113.10  MONTHLY REPORT OF GROSS INCOME.
   Any person engaged in the business described by §
113.06 shall, on or before the tenth day of each month, file with the Village
Clerk a full, complete and detailed statement of the gross income derived by
such person from the sale of gas to the inhabitants of the village for the
preceding month, which statement shall be duly verified and sworn to by such
person or by the managing officer of any gas company.
(Prior Code, § 10-510)
§ 113.11  ADJUSTMENTS.
   Any person, when paying the occupation tax provided for by §
113.06 may show on the reports accompanying such tax payments as an adjustment
in the payment of his or her tax made necessary by uncollectible accounts, or
any other matters which may have resulted in either an excess or a deficiency
in the amount of tax paid in any previous remittance.
(Prior Code, § 10-511)
§ 113.12  RIGHT OF VILLAGE TO INSPECT RECORDS AND THE LIKE.
   The village shall have the right at any time during business hours to
inspect, through its officers, agents or representatives, the books and records
of any person engaged in the business described in §
113.06 for the purpose of verifying any report submitted pursuant to §
113.10.
(Prior Code, § 10-512)
§ 113.13  AMOUNT AND THE LIKE OF TAX WHEN REPORT NOT FILED OR INSPECTION
REFUSED.
   In case any person engaged in the business described in §
113.06 shall refuse or fail or neglect to furnish or file a report pursuant to
§
113.10 at the time specified or shall refuse to permit the village, through its
officers, agents or representatives, to inspect his books and records for the
purpose of verifying any such report, then the occupation tax levied pursuant
to this chapter for the preceding month shall be the sum of $1,000, which
amount shall draw interest at the rate of 1% per month after becoming due and
payable, and in addition thereto, a penalty of 5% shall be added for failure to
pay such tax within six months.
(Prior Code, § 10-513)
§ 113.14  RIGHT OF VILLAGE TO SUE AND THE LIKE; WHEN PAYMENT NOT MADE.
   If any person engaged in the business described by §
113.06 shall fail to make payment of the occupation tax as provided by this
chapter at the time specified for such payment, the village shall have the
right to sue any such person in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
amount of the occupation tax due and payable under the terms and provisions of
this chapter, and may recover therein a judgment against any such person for
such amount due, together with interest and penalties, and may have execution
thereon.
(Prior Code, § 10-514)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-801)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MISDEMEANORS
      
131.   SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY
      
132.   PUBLIC NUDITY; LEWD OR LASCIVIOUS BEHAVIOR
CHAPTER 130:  MISDEMEANORS
Section
   
130.01   Discharge of firearms
   
130.02   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
   
130.03   Disorderly conduct
   
130.04   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
   
130.05   Diseased or dying trees
   
130.06   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.07   Curfew
   
130.08   Unlicensed vehicles
   
130.09   Minor in possession
   
130.10   Criminal trespass
   
130.11   Malicious destruction of property
   
130.12   Malicious mischief
   
130.13   Criminal mischief
   
130.14   Arson, first degree
   
130.15   Arson, second degree
   
130.16   Arson, third degree
   
130.17   Possession of marijuana
   
130.18   Possession of a controlled substance
   
130.19   Manufacture, distribution of a controlled substance
   
130.20   Resisting arrest, without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
130.21   Operation of a motor vehicle to avoid arrest
   
130.22   Obstructing a peace officer
   
130.23   False reporting
   
130.24   Disturbing the peace
   
130.25   Failure to appear
   
130.26   Warrant for arrest
   
130.27   Smoking prohibition in Village Hall
   
130.28   Driving under the influence
   
130.29   Abatement of nuisance
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his or her official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or
other fowling piece within the municipality; provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-301)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.02  SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-302)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207
§ 130.03  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who shall knowingly start a fight, fight, commit assault or
battery, make unnecessary noise, or otherwise conduct themselves in such a way
as to breach the peace shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-303)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.04  WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Any and all lots or pieces of ground within the municipality shall be
drained or filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance
accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining street and
alleys free of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or
worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the municipality is prohibited; provided that grass, leaves
and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit, allow or maintain
any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this ordinance, be guilty of a Class V misdemeanor.
   (F)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each owner
or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
with the municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality may have such work done and may levy and assess the
costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted in
the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and
assessed.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER.  Includes:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS.  Include, but shall not be limited to, bindweed (convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle (cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium dra-ba),
Russian knapweed (centaurea picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding
or musk thistle, quack grass (agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (solanum carolinense), bull thistle (cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (rahmnus sp.) (toum), hemp plant (cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (ambrosiaceae).
(Prior Code, § 6-304)  (Ord. 172, passed 4-6-1993)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1719
§ 130.05  DISEASED OR DYING TREES.
   (A)   All trees of the species and varieties of elm, zelkova and planera
that are in a diseased, dying or dead condition or that may serve as a breeding
place for the European Elm Bark Beetle, Scolytus Muftistriatus, or other
disease carrying insects are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall
be removed from the private property on which they are located upon notice by
the Utilities Superintendent. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this section, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the authority to enter on
private property to inspect the trees thereon.
   (B)   In the event that the trees are diseased or dead, notice shall be
given to the owner of the property by mail or personal service and such notice
shall allow the said owner ten days to remove the said tree or trees.
   (C)   In the event that the owner is a non-resident, notice shall be made by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation, or by mail if the name and
address is known.
   (D)   The person charged with the removal may enter into an agreement with
the municipality that such work be accomplished by the municipality and the
expense and interest shall be declared to be a lien upon such property from the
time the same becomes due until paid.
   (E)   If the owner fails, neglects or refuses to enter into such an
agreement, or to remove the trees, the Utilities Superintendent may enter upon
the property and proceed to direct the removal of the trees and the cost
thereof shall be chargeable to the property owner. If the owner fails to
reimburse the municipality after being properly billed, the costs shall be
assessed against the property and certified by the Municipal Clerk to the
County Treasurer to be collected in the manner prescribed by law.
   (F)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner.
   (G)   The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
   (H)   Failure to remove the said trees shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-305)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 130.06  ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (B) of this section.
      (2)   No person other than one authorized by the municipality or
appropriate state agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle
which is left unattended on a highway or other public place without license
plates affixed or which is abandoned.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “in
transit” stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed
thereto, for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
the vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated; or
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner under division (E) below.
         (b)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (B).
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park,
or other state, county or municipally owned property.
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “in transit” stickers issued pursuant to
Neb. RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration
the condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in
the municipality.
   (D)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (C) above, the
municipality shall make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner of an
abandoned vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued the license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The municipality shall notify the last registered owner, if any,
that the vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date the notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the municipality 30 days after the date the
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the municipality is notified that a lien or mortgage exists, the
notice described in division (D)(2) of this section shall also be sent to the
lien holder or mortgagee. Any person claiming the vehicle shall be required to
pay the cost of removal and storage of the vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
municipality:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (D)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the
municipality will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of that fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (D)
(4) of this section, the municipality may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the municipality has determined that the vehicle should
be retained for use, the municipality shall, at the same time that the notice,
if any, is mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the
jurisdiction an announcement that the municipality intends to retain the
abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will vest in the municipality 30
days after publication.
   (E)   (1)   If the municipal law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last registered owners
stating that the vehicle is in the custody of the agency, that the vehicle is
no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(E) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
   (F)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less any expenses
incurred by the municipality, shall be held by the municipality without
interest, for the benefit of the owner or lien holders of the vehicle, for a
period of two years. If not claimed within that two-year period, the proceeds
shall be paid into the General Fund of the municipality.
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the municipality, shall be liable for any
loss or damage to the vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the municipality or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
   (H)   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the municipality for the costs of removal and storage of the vehicle.
   (I)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of an
offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-306)  (Ord. 247, passed 9-5-2006)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-1901, 60-1902, 60-1903, 60-1903.01, 60-
1905, 60-1906, 60-1907, 60-1908, 60-1909
§ 130.07  CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 19 years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, public places, public buildings, places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places, or to ride in or upon,
drive or otherwise operate, any automobile, bicycle or other vehicle in, upon,
over or through the streets, alleys or other public places of the village,
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, on all days
of the week except Friday and Saturday when the curfew hours shall be from 12:
00 midnight and 6:00 a.m., the following day, unless such person is accompanied
by a parent, legal guardian or other adult person having the legal care and
custody of such minor, person, or unless such minor person is upon an emergency
errand or legitimate business, directed by his or her parent, legal guardian or
legal custodian.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the parent, legal guardian or other adult
person, having the care and custody of a minor child under the age of 19 years,
to permit such minor child to do any of the things or acts prohibited in
division (A) above, unless such minor is accompanied by his or her parent,
legal guardian or other adult person having the legal care and custody of the
minor, or unless such minor is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business
directed by his or her parent, guardian or legal custodian.
   (C)   No minor person, arrested under the provisions of this section shall
be placed in confinement until he or she has been taken home, or the parent,
legal guardian or legal custodian of such minor person has been notified, and
the arresting officer has ascertained whether or not such minor person is
within the control of his or her parent, legal guardian or legal custodian, and
if such parent, legal guardian or legal custodian shall state such minor cannot
be controlled by him or her, then such minor shall be proceeded against.
(Prior Code, § 6-307)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08  UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is hereby expressly found and determined that the practice of
permitting unlicensed motor vehicles, motor vehicle bodies and motor vehicle
chassis or parts therefrom to be stored or accumulated on private premises is
unsightly and unhealthy and constitutes a nuisance to the citizens and
residents of this village; provided, the storage and accumulation of such motor
vehicles, motor vehicle bodies, and motor vehicle chassis or parts therefrom in
completely enclosed buildings shall not be considered a nuisance.
   (B)   No person shall store, retain or keep on, or permit to be stored,
retained or kept on, any private premises any motor vehicle that has been
unlicensed for a period in excess of four months under the laws of the state or
any motor vehicle body or motor vehicle chassis or parts therefrom; provided,
this section shall not apply to such motor vehicle, motor vehicle body, or
motor vehicle chassis or parts therefrom that is kept in a completely enclosed
building.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to premises where a licensed motor
vehicle dealer or a farm implement dealer or a junk dealer conducts his or her
business.
(Prior Code, § 6-308)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09  MINOR IN POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under 20 years of age to transport,
knowingly possess or have under his or her control in any motor vehicle, beer
or other alcoholic liquor on any public street, alley, roadway or property
owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, or any other place within the
municipal limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-309)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-180.02
§ 130.10  CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowing that he or she is not licensed
or privileged to do so, to:
   (A)   Enter or secretly remain in any building or occupied structure, or any
separately secured or occupied portion thereof; or
   (B)   Enter or remain in any place as to which notice against trespass is
given by:
      (1)   Actual communication to the actor;
      (2)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to come
to the attention of intruders; or
      (3)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders.
(Prior Code, § 6-310)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-520, 28-521
§ 130.11  MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
purposely, willfully or maliciously injure in any manner, or destroy any real
or personal property of any description belonging to another.
(Prior Code, § 6-311)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12  MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   (A)   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to willfully destroy,
mutilate, deface, injure or remove any tomb, monument, gravestone, structure or
thing of value which is located upon any government property, cemetery or
property of historic value.
   (B)   Any such offender shall also be liable, in an action for trespass in
the name of the beneficial holder of said property, for all damages which arise
from the commission of such unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 6-312)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13  CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage property of another
intentionally or recklessly; or intentionally or recklessly tamper with
property of another so as to endanger person or property; or intentionally or
maliciously cause another to suffer pecuniary loss by deception or threat;
provided, that the value of the property involved is under $300.
(Prior Code, § 6-313)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 130.14  ARSON, FIRST DEGREE.
   (A)   A person commits arson in the first degree if he or she intentionally
damages a building by starting a fire or causing an explosion, when another
person is present in the building at the time and either: the actor knows that
fact; or the circumstances are such as to render the presence of a person
therein a reasonable probability.
   (B)   Arson in the first degree is a Class II felony.
(Prior Code, § 6-314)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-502
§ 130.15  ARSON, SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person commits arson in the second degree if he or she intentionally
damages a building by starting a fire or causing an explosion.
   (B)   The following affirmative defenses may be introduced into evidence
upon prosecution for a violation of this section:
      (1)   No person other than the accused has a security or proprietary
interest in the damaged building, or, if other persons have such interests, all
of them consented to his or her conduct; or
      (2)   The accused’s sole interest was to destroy or damage the building
for a lawful and proper purpose.
   (C)   Arson in the second degree is a Class III felony.
(Prior Code, § 6-315)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-503
§ 130.16  ARSON, THIRD DEGREE.
   (A)   A person commits arson in the third degree if he or she intentionally
sets fire to, burns, causes to be burned, or by the use of any explosive,
damages or destroys or causes to be damaged or destroyed, any property of
another without his or her consent, other than a building or occupied
structure.
   (B)   Arson in the third degree is a Class IV felony if the damages amount
to $100 or more.
   (C)   Arson in the third degree is a Class I misdemeanor if the damages are
less than $100.
(Prior Code, § 6-316)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-504
§ 130.17  POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally possess
any quantity of marijuana, one pound or less.
(Prior Code, § 6-317)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-416(4) (6)
§ 130.18  POSSESSION OF A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally possess
any controlled substance.
(Prior Code, § 6-318)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-416
§ 130.19  MANUFACTURE, DISTRIBUTION OF A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally
manufacture or distribute any controlled substance.
(Prior Code, § 6-319)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-416
§ 130.20  RESISTING ARREST, WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally prevent or
attempt to prevent a peace officer, acting under color of his or her official
authority, from effecting an arrest on said person or on another, by:
      (1)   Using or threatening to use physical force or violence against the
peace officer of another;
      (2)   Using any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employing means which require substantial force to overcome
resistance to effecting the arrest; provided, that this section shall apply
only to those actions taken to resist arrest without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Prior Code, § 6-320)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-904
§ 130.21  OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE TO AVOID ARREST.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle to flee in
such vehicle in an effort to avoid arrest or citation for the violation of any
law of the state constituting a misdemeanor, infraction, traffic infraction or
any municipal ordinance, except non-moving traffic violations.
(Prior Code, § 6-321)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-905(1)
§ 130.22  OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, to use or threaten to use violence,
force, physical interference or obstacle, to intentionally obstruct, impair or
hinder the enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace by a
peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official authority.
(Prior Code, § 6-322)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906
§ 130.23  FALSE REPORTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false to any peace officer
or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation or an alleged
criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal matter;
   (B)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the existence
of an emergency in which human life or property are in jeopardy to any
hospital, ambulance company or other person or governmental agency which deals
with emergencies involving danger to life or property;
   (C)   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a Fire Department or any
personnel or equipment of such Department; or
   (D)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person.
(Prior Code, § 6-323)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907
§ 130.24  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 6-324)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1322
§ 130.25  FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   Any person failing to appear or otherwise comply with the command of a
citation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof,
be punished by §
130.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-325)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-426
§ 130.26  WARRANT FOR ARREST.
   The magistrate issuing any warrant for arrest may make an order thereon
authorizing a person, to be named in such warrant, to execute the same; the
person named in such order may execute such warrant anywhere in the state, by
apprehending and conveying such offender before the magistrate issuing such
warrant, or before some other magistrate in the same county; and all sheriffs,
coroners and constables, and others when required, in their respective
counties, shall aid and assist in the execution of such warrant.
(Prior Code, § 6-326)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-407
§ 130.27  SMOKING PROHIBITION IN VILLAGE HALL.
   (A)   Neb. RS 71-5716 through  71-5735, otherwise known as the State Clean
Indoor Air Act, permit the regulation of smoking in public places to protect
the public health, comfort and environment by prohibiting smoking in public
places and at public meetings, except in designated smoking areas.
   (B)   The Village Board has determined it to be in the best interest of the
public and the employees of the village to designate the entirety of the
Village Hall a smoke-free environment and to prohibit smoking throughout such
building (except maintenance area).
   (C)   Smoking is hereby prohibited throughout the entire building, except
maintenance area, which comprises the Village Hall.
   (D)   In accordance with Neb. RS 71-5730, this prohibition does not apply in
cases in which any room or the entire Village Hall is used for a private social
function when seating arrangements are under the control of the sponsor of the
function and not the Village Board or its employees.
   (E)   The Clerk of the village shall obtain and post at all entrances of the
Village Hall, and at other conspicuous locations throughout the building, signs
indicating that smoking is prohibited in the entire building.
   (F)   Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this nonsmoking
designation shall be subject to prosecution for a Class V misdemeanor under the
laws of the state in accordance with the provisions of the State Clean Air Act.
(Prior Code, § 6-327)  (Res. 91-1, passed 4-2-1991)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28  DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in the actual
physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   While under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug;
      (2)   When such person has a concentration of ten-hundredths of one gram
or more by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood; or
      (3)   When such person has a concentration of ten-hundredths of one gram
or more by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath.
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in this state shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests or his or her blood, breath, or urine for
purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the presence of drugs in
such blood, breath or urine.
   (C)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of the municipality
may require any person arrested for any offense arising out of acts alleged to
have been committed while the person was driving or was in actual physical
control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or
drugs to submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath or
urine for the purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the
presence of drugs in such blood, breath or urine when the officer has
reasonable grounds to believe that such person was driving or was in the actual
physical control of a motor vehicle in the municipality while under the
influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs in violation of this section.
   (D)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violation of traffic laws of the state or of ordinances of the municipality may
require any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in the municipality to submit to a preliminary test of his or her
breath for alcohol concentration if the officer has reasonable grounds to
believe that such person has alcohol in his or her body, has committed a moving
traffic violation, or has been involved in a traffic accident. Any person who
refuses to submit to such preliminary breath test or whose preliminary breath
test results indicated an alcohol concentration in violation of division (A)
above shall be placed under arrest. Any person who refuses to submit to such
preliminary breath test shall be guilty of an offense.
   (E)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood, breath or urine for a determination of the concentration
of alcohol of the presence of drugs. If the chemical test discloses the
presence of a concentration of alcohol in violation of division (A) above, or
if any person refuses to submit to such test or tests required pursuant to this
section, such person shall be subject to the administrative revocation
procedures provided in Neb. RS 60-498.01 to 60-498.04, and shall be guilty of
an offense.
   (F)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this section,
there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any
physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-6,201, for the test administered and the analysis
thereof if such test was actually made.
(Prior Code, § 6-328)  (Ord. 204, passed 1-9-1996)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,203
§ 130.29  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
130.07 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $100 for any one offense, recoverable
with costs together with judgment or imprisonment until the amount of said fine
and costs shall be paid.
(Prior Code, § 6-307)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
130.08 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined $25. Each day of violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-308)
   (D)   Conviction of such misdemeanor in §
130.12 shall be punishable by a fine not less than $5, nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 6-312)
   (E)   Any person failing to appear or otherwise comply with the command of a
citation (§
130.25) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine of not more than $500, or by imprisonment in the county jail
for not more than three months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 6-325)
CHAPTER 131:  SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY
Section
   
131.01   Prohibition of residency by sexual predator
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  PROHIBITION OF RESIDENCY BY SEXUAL PREDATOR.
   (A)   Except as hereafter specifically provided, it shall be unlawful for
any sexual predator as defined in the State Sexual Predator Residency
Restriction Act, Neb. RS 29-4015 through 29-4017 to reside within 500 feet of
child care facility licensed pursuant to the State Child Care Licensing Act,
Neb. RS 71-1908 through 71-1923 or any public, private, denominational or
parochial school which meets the requirements for accreditation or is otherwise
approved as provided in Neb. RS Chapter 79 located within the jurisdiction of
the village.
   (B)   The restrictions herein imposed shall not be applicable to any sexual
predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
      (2)   Established an otherwise restricted residence before the date of
the enactment of this prohibition and has not moved from that residence; or
      (3)   Established an otherwise restricted residence after the date of the
enactment of this prohibition and the school or child care facility triggering
the restriction herein imposed was established after the initial date of the
sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. 248, passed 10-3-2006)  Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4015 to 29-4017
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate the prohibition imposed by §
131.01, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in §
130.99. Additionally, upon conviction for any violation of §
131.01, that person shall be required to immediately remove himself or herself
from the prohibited residency, and the Village Board may take all such action
as may be necessary to otherwise enforce the prohibitions of §
131.01.
(Ord. 248, passed 10-3-2006)
CHAPTER 132:  PUBLIC NUDITY; LEWD OR LASCIVIOUS BEHAVIOR
Section
   
132.01   Statement of intent
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Nudity prohibited
   
132.04   Sexual contact prohibited
   
132.05   Exceptions
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01  STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of §§
132.02 through
132.05 to:
      (1)   Promote the public health, safety, welfare, peace and order of the
village;
      (2)   Prohibit the exploitation of human nudity promoting the economic
interests of any type of business enterprise; and
      (3)   Further the government’s interest in avoiding the harmful secondary
effects of public nude conduct such as prostitution, sexual assaults and
criminal activity consistent with applicable constitutional limitations
outlined in reported federal court decisions such as Barnes v. Glen Theatre,
Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); Pap’s A.M. v. City of Erie, 529 U.S. 277 (2000); and
Ways v. City of Lincoln, 331 F.3d 596 (8th Cir. 2003).
   (B)   This prohibition on public nude conduct is not intended to extend to
any expression of opinion or the performance of a bona fide play, ballet or
drama which may not be prohibited under the First Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States or by Article I, § 5 of the Constitution of the state.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on exercise of free speech that are
protected by the First Amendment.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-5-2016)
§ 132.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words in the present tense include the future
tense, words used in the plural number include words in the singular number and
words in the singular number include words in the plural number. The word
“shall” is always mandatory, and not merely directory.
   NUDE, NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY.  The showing of the human male or female
genitals or pubic area with less than a fully opaque covering, the showing of
the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering on any part of the
areola and nipple, or the showing of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  All spaces owned by or open to the general public, whether or
not an admission or cover charge is levied for entrance thereto; and public
streets, sidewalks, alleys or other public thoroughfares, and areas in or such
close proximity thereto, as to be observed by the public traveling on such
street, sidewalk or other thoroughfare.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-5-2016)
§ 132.03  NUDITY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to, knowingly or intentionally, in a
public place or in any place open to the public, appear nude or in a state of
nudity.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04  SEXUAL CONTACT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for:
      (1)   Any employee or performer (including amateur performers) in any
business or commercial establishment to have any sexual contact with any other
employee, performer, person, or patron for gratuity, pay or other remuneration,
direct or indirect, or in conjunction with or as part of any performance or
entertainment in any business or commercial establishment;
      (2)   Any person or patron to have sexual contact with any employee or
performer in any business or commercial establishment;
      (3)   Any person purposely or knowingly to solicit, induce or attempt to
induce another person to engage in an act or acts prohibited hereunder; or
      (4)   The owner, lessee, proprietor or manager of any business or
commercial establishment to knowingly allow any person on the premises of such
business or commercial establishment to engage in an act or acts prohibited
hereunder.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, SEXUAL CONTACT shall mean the
intentional touching between any person, patron, a performer or employee
involving contact by or with a patron’s, performer’s or employee’s sexual
organ, buttock(s) or breast(s), whether covered or not, or kissing, when such
contact can reasonably be construed as being for the purpose of sexual arousal
or sexual gratification of either party or any observer.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-5-2016)
§ 132.05  EXCEPTIONS.
   The prohibitions of §
132.03 shall not be applicable for any of the following:
   (A)   Breastfeeding a child;
   (B)   Children under the age of 12 years old;
   (C)   Appearing nude or in a state of nudity in any dressing/changing room,
locker room, restroom facility, or hospital, clinic or other similar medical
facility in which appearing nude or in a state of nudity is necessary for
health-related purposes;
   (D)   Appearing nude or in a state of nudity in the presence of a licensed
physical therapist, licensed massage therapist, licensed athletic trainer or
licensed cosmetologist, engaged in performing the functions authorized under
the license held;
   (E)   Models that are part of a nude modeling studio that is part of a
proprietary school licensed by the state; or a college or junior college or
university supported entirely or in part by public taxation; or a private
college or university which maintains and operates educational programs in
which credits are transferable to a college, junior college or university
supported entirely or partly by taxation; and
   (F)   The exhibition, presentation, showing or performance of any play,
ballet, drama, tableau, production or motion picture in any theater, concert
hall, art center, museum, school, institution of higher learning or other
similar establishment which is primarily devoted to such exhibitions,
presentations, shows or performances as a form of expression of opinion,
communication, speech, ideas, information, art or drama.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-5-2016)
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, any person who shall violate
or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at
length herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for
each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of such failure.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
132.03 or
132.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a maximum of a $500
fine.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-5-2016)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   MOBILE HOME PARK STANDARDS
      
152.   FLOOD HAZARD
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDINGS
Section
Building Inspector
   
150.01   Power and authority
   
150.02   Right of entry
   
150.03   Time of inspection
   
150.04   Appeal from decision
   
150.05   Barricades and lights
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.20   Definition
   
150.21   Prohibition
   
150.22   Determination and notice
   
150.23   Hearing and appeal
   
150.24   Emergency
   
150.25   Special assessments
Codes Adopted
   
150.40   International Building Code (IBC)
   
150.41   International Residential Code (IRC)
   
150.42   Building and Residential Code standards
   
150.43   Amendments to Building and Residential Codes
   
150.44   International Plumbing Code (IPC)
   
150.45   National Electrical Code
   
150.46   Alarms
   
150.47   Building damaged by fire
   
150.48   Existing installations
   
150.49   Supplemental requirements for electrical installations
   
150.50   Permits for work; required
   
150.51   Permit requirements not otherwise designated
   
150.52   Commercial and industrial buildings
   
150.53   Constriction prior to permit issuance
Building Permit
   
150.65   Procedure
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.01  POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The County Building Inspector shall be the Municipal Building Inspector and
shall have the duty of enforcing all building and housing regulations as herein
prescribed. He or she shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or
moved in the municipality as often as necessary to ensure compliance with all
municipal ordinances. He or she shall have the power and authority to order all
work stopped on any construction, alteration or relocation which violates any
provisions prescribed herein. He or she shall issue permission to continue any
construction, alteration or relocation when the governing body is satisfied
that no provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall
be followed by a written stop order within one hour.
(Prior Code, § 9-101)
§ 150.02  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(Prior Code, § 9-102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03  TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure
and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed, or
shall notify the permit holder, or his or her agent that the work fails to
comply with the requirements of the municipal code: foundation inspection shall
be made after trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame
inspection shall be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking and backing is
in place and all pipes, chimneys and vents are complete; and final inspection
shall be made after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall
be unlawful for any person to do work, or cause work to be done beyond the
point indicated in each successive inspection without the written approval of
the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 9-103)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.04  APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this chapter
has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector; that the time allowed
for compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too short; or that
conditions peculiar to a particular building make it unreasonably difficult to
meet the literal requirements prescribed by this chapter and the Building
Inspector, the owner, his or her agent, or the occupant may file a notice of
appeal within ten days after the decision or order of the Building Inspector
has been made. The governing body shall hear all appeals and shall have the
power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the
Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy
which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. Applications for review
shall be in writing and shall state the reasons why the variance should be
made. A variance shall be granted only where it is evident that reasonable
safety and sanitation is assured and may include conditions not generally
specified by this code to achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted
shall be sent to both the Building Inspector and the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 9-104)
§ 150.05  BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant or lessee causing the
construction, demolition or moving of any building or improvement within the
municipality to have during such work all excavations, open basements, building
materials and debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day, and by
warning lights at night. The failure, neglect or refusal of said persons to
erect such guards shall constitute a violation of this section and the Village
Marshal or the Building Inspector shall stop all work until guards are erected
and maintained as required.
(Prior Code, § 9-105)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.20  DEFINITION.
   (A)   The term UNSAFE BUILDING as used in this chapter is hereby defined to
mean and include any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure: which
is dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause
or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it
or neighboring structures; which because of faulty construction, age, lack of
proper repair, or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes
or creates a fire hazard; which by reason of faulty construction or any other
cause is liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any
part of such structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the municipality is hereby declared to be
a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-201)
§ 150.21  PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition.
(Prior Code, § 9-202)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.22  DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector, the Fire Chief and Fire Committee, or
the governing body shall be of the opinion that any building or structure in
the municipality is an unsafe building, they shall file a written statement to
this effect with the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon cause the
property to be posted accordingly, as well as posting sufficient notice at the
Village Hall, and shall file a copy of such determination in the office of the
County Register of Deeds, and shall serve written notice upon the owner
thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by certified mail or by
personal service. Such notice shall state that the building has been declared
to be in an unsafe condition; and that such dangerous condition must be removed
or remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it; and
that the condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt.
Such notice may be in the following terms:
“To ____________________________ (owner-occupant of premises) of the premises
known and  described as _________________________________________
“You are hereby notified that ___________________ (describe building) on the
premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a
nuisance after inspection by ____________. The causes for this decision are
_____________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
“You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within sixty (60) days
from the date of receipt of this notice or the Municipality will proceed to do
so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the Governing Body, acting as
the Board of Appeals, by filing with the Municipal Clerk within ten (10) days
from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
   (B)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten days from the time when this notice is
served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Building
Inspector may, upon orders of the governing body, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(Prior Code, § 9-203)
§ 150.23  HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated may, in writing to the
Municipal Clerk, request a hearing before the governing body, sitting as the
Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished.
   (B)   The governing body shall grant such hearing within ten days from the
date of receiving the request.
   (C)   A written notice of the governing body’s decision following the
hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail.
   (D)   If the governing body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have five
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal. If after the five-day period the owner has not begun work, the
governing body shall proceed to cause such work to be done; provided, the
property owner may appeal such decision to the appropriate court for
adjudication during which proceedings the decision of the governing body shall
be stayed. Where the municipality has not adopted a building code, the statutes
of the state relating to bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes
shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 9-204)
§ 150.24  EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Fire Chief and
Fire Committee to do so, the municipality may summarily repair or demolish and
remove such building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 9-205)
§ 150.25  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   In case the owner of any building or structure shall fail, neglect or
refuse to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and
a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in the
notice to the property owner.
   (B)   A statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the
governing body, which is authorized to levy the cost as a special assessment
against the land. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate
and shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 9-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.40  INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE (IBC).
   (A)   The International Building Code, 2012 Edition (IBC), published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted together with any amendment
thereto as may be added from time to time; except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended by ordinance and set forth in this
chapter of the municipal code. The following sections of the appendix shall
also be adopted: Appendix C, Group U - Agricultural Buildings Appendix I -
Patio Covers.
   (B)   No other sections or tables of the IBC shall be adopted or approved
except by ordinance as set forth hereinafter. A copy of the International
Building Code, 2012 Edition, together with such supplements as may be added
thereto both by the International Code Council and the by the village shall be
filed in the Office of the Village Clerk as provided by law.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 150.41  INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE (IRC).
   (A)   The International Residential Code, 2012 Edition (IRC), published by
the International Code Council, is hereby adopted together with any amendments
thereto as may be made from time to time, except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended by ordinance and set forth in this
chapter of the municipal code.
   (B)   One copy of the International Residential Code, 2012 Edition, and
supplemental amendments thereto by either the International Code Council or the
village shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 150.42  BUILDING AND RESIDENTIAL CODE STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall be used with the International Building Code
and the International Residential Code:
   (A)   Acceptable wind load design procedure: 2012 IBC - Basic Wind Speed:
The ultimate design wind speed shall be 120 mph, in risk category II, III and
IV. 2012 IRC - Basic Wind Speed shall be 90 mph, Exposure C only;
   (B)   Ground snow load: 30 pounds per square foot;
   (C)   Frost depth: 36-inch minimum;
   (D)   Seismic design Category A, Site Class D; and
   (E)   Table R301.5 of the IRC shall reflect live loads for sleeping rooms of
40 pounds per square foot.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 150.43  AMENDMENTS TO BUILDING AND RESIDENTIAL CODES.
   (A)   Section 9-301.04 IBC - Amendment of § 1809.7. Section 1809.7 of the
International Building Code is hereby amended by adding the following:
Bearing Walls
Bearing Walls shall be supported on masonry or concrete foundations or piles or
other approved foundation system which shall be of sufficient size to support
all loads. Where a design is not provided herein, the minimum foundation
requirements for stud hearing walls shall be as set forth in Table No. 1809.7.
EXCEPTIONS:
(1)   A one-story wood or metal frame building not used for human occupancy and
not over two hundred (200) square feet in floor area may be placed upon a
concrete slab of four inch (4") minimum thickness.
(2)   Detached accessory buildings not exceeding 625 feet in floor area may use
a six-inch wide by eighteen inch deep foundation system with at least twelve
inches below grade.
   (B)   Section 9-301.05 - Amendment of § 1805 (IBC) and amendment of R406
(IRC). Section 1805 of the International Building Code and Section R406 of the
International Residential Code is hereby amended by adding thereto the
following:
1805.2.2 & 1805.2.2.1 Walls & Surface Preparation of walls, and R406, R406.2,
subsurface drainage system shall be included as an alternative to
waterproofing. Add Backplaster and Dampproofing.
Exterior foundation walls below grade of any building consisting of masonry
units having a basement shall be backplastered with one-half inch (2") Portland
cement and sand mix (1:2 2 by volume) or two one-fourth inch (1/4") coats of
Type M mortar, and with an approved dampproofing material. Poured concrete
foundations shall be coated with dampproofing without backplaster. Alternative
dampproofing may be approved by the building official.
1805.4 Delete existing and add Surface Drainage Systems.
All buildings constructed with basements or floor levels twenty-four (24)
inches or more below the elevation of the center line of the adjacent public
street be provided with a subsurface drainage system. A subsurface drainage
system shall consist of the minimum following elements:
(1)   Minimum four inch (4") diameter perforated or scored drain pipe embedded
in four inches (4") of coarse gravel installed around the inside of the
perimeter footing such that no floor location is greater than ten feet (10') to
such drain pipe.
(2)   Minimum fifteen inch (15") diameter by thirty inch (30') deep sump pump
pit for each one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet area to be drained.
(3)   Minimum four inch (4") gravel bed under floor slab.
(4)   A three inch (3") minimum diameter pipe shall be installed through the
floors and into the attic space, capped and sealed to facilitate a future soil
gas ventilation system.
   (C)   Section 9-301.06 Permits required: amendment of § 105 (IBC) and § 
R105 (IRC). Section 105 of the International Building Code and Section R105 of
the International Residential Code shall be amended by adding the following:
No person, firm, or corporation shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish, equip use, occupy, or maintain any
building or structure in the city, or cause the same to be done without first
obtaining a separate building permit for each such building or structure from
the Building Department; provided, no permit shall be issued by the Building
Department unless and until authorized by resolution of Hall County in any one
or more of the following cases:
(1)   Where the real property described in the application for permit does not
front upon a dedicated street or public road;
(2)   Where a subdivision as required by state statutes has not been lawfully
approved and recorded with the Register of Deeds.
Amend Section R105.2 Work exempt from building permit.
(1)   Replace 200 (IRC) square feet with 120 square feet.
   (D)   Section 9-301.07 -  amend § 1029.1 (IBC) and amend § R303 and R310
(IRC). The following are hereby amended to § 1029.1 exception of the
International Building Code add exceptions:
EXCEPTIONS: Basements used exclusively for the service of buildings and which
do not exceed three hundred (300) square feet.
Section 310.1 Exceptions: Basements used only to house mechanical equipment and
not exceeding total floor area of three hundred (300) square feet.
In existing single family residential occupancies other than apartments, a
sleeping room may be added in an existing basement if the following conditions
are met:
(1)   The sleeping room must have an openable window meeting egress
requirements.
(2)   Smoke detectors have been installed in the sleeping room, the furnace
room, and in the exitway of the basement.
(3)   Carbon monoxide detectors have been installed in common areas.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 150.44  INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE (IPC).
   (A)   Adoption. The Uniform Plumbing Code, 2012 Edition, published by the
International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, is hereby
adopted, together with appendices as set forth hereafter, and any amendments
thereto as may be made from time to time except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended by ordinance and set forth in this
chapter of the village code. One copy of the Uniform Plumbing Code, 2012
Edition, and all supplements and amendments thereto shall be filed in the
office of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Amendments.
      (1)   § 9-302.02 UPC - Amendment of subsection 103.1.1. Subsection
103.1.1 of the Uniform Plumbing Code is hereby amended to include the
following:
103.1.1 Permits Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make any
installation, alteration or repair any plumbing system regulated by this Code
except as permitted in Subsections 103.1.2 or this section, or cause the same
to be done without first obtaining a permit to do such from the Hall County
Building Department.
(a)   No device shall be installed for the prevention of backflow or
backsiphonage, or be removed from use, or relocated, or other device
substituted without a permit.
(b)   A permit is required for lawn irrigation systems.
(c)   No water treating or conditioning equipment shall be installed without a
permit.
(d)   A permit and inspection are required when repairing, replacing, or
installing a sewer lateral, sewer tap, or sewer cap within five (5) feet of the
City main, and when repairing or replacing fifty (50) percent or more of the
sewer lateral. Any repair, replacement, or installation of a new sewer tap
shall be done in compliance with the UPC.
(e)   A permit is required for the repair, replacement, or installation of a
water service. A Plumbing Inspection fee will be assessed on all water meter
installations replacements.
(f)   A separate permit shall be obtained for each building or structure.
      (2)   § 9-302.03 UPC - Amendment of subsection 103.1.3. Subsection
103.1.3 of the Uniform Plumbing Code is hereby amended to include the
following:
(A)   No permit shall be issued to any person to do or cause to be done any
work regulated by this Code, except to a person holding a valid, unexpired and
unrevoked plumbing license as required by this chapter, except when and as
otherwise hereinafter provided in this section.
(B)   Any permit by this code may be issued to do any work regulated by this
code in a single family dwelling used exclusively for living purposes,
including the usual accessory buildings and quarters in connection with such
buildings in the event that such person is the bona fide owner of any such
dwelling and accessory buildings and quarters, and that the same are currently
occupied by said owner, provided, that said owner shall personally purchase all
material and shall personally perform all labor in connection therein. This,
however, shall exclude all gas piping and venting or fuel combustion
appliances.
      (3)   § 9-302.04 UPC - Amendment of subsection 707.4. Subsection 707.4 of
the Uniform Plumbing Code is hereby amended as follows: delete wording of (4)
and replace with:
(4)   An approved cleanout fitting shall be installed outside the building wall
near the connections between the building drain and the building sewer and
extended to grade.
      (4)   § 9-302.05 UPC - Amendment of subsection 717.0. Section 717.0 of
the Uniform Plumbing Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
717.0 Size of Building Sewers:
No building sewer shall be smaller than the building drain and in no case less
than four (4") inches.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 150.45  NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   There is hereby adopted the National Electrical Code, 2014 Edition, as
recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, and any amendments
thereto as may be made from time to time, except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended by ordinance and as set forth in this
chapter of the village code. One copy of the National Electrical Code, 2014
Edition, and all supplements and amendments thereto shall be on file with the
Village Clerk.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 150.46  ALARMS.
   Smoke alarms and carbon monoxide alarms shall be installed to comply with
the International Residential Code.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 150.47  BUILDING DAMAGED BY FIRE.
   Whenever the wiring of any buildings within the corporate limits of the
village has been damaged by fire, the Building Inspector of the county or the
Electrical Inspector as designated by the state shall be notified before
permanent repairs to wiring are started. All repairs shall be in compliance
with the provisions of the National Electrical Code as adopted.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 150.48  EXISTING INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Extensions to existing installations. Extensions to existing
installations shall not be made, attached or connected to any existing wiring
where the existing wiring does not conform to the minimum requirements as set
forth by this chapter.
   (B)   Removal of unused electrical wiring. All unused abandoned electrical
equipment, wiring, conduits and devices shall be removed from all buildings and
structures.
   (C)   Existing electrical wiring. All existing electrical wiring, conduits,
equipment and devices in existing buildings shall be compliant with the code at
the time of such installation. Remodeled areas of building shall comply with
the current code as adopted by the National Fire Protection Associations, as
amended.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 150.49  SUPPLEMENTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Aluminum conductors may be used for service entrance and feeders only.
   (B)   An equipment grounding conductor will be required in all conduit
systems except for ridged metal conduit systems with threaded hubs, couplings
or fittings.
   (C)   Non-grounding receptacles shall not be installed, either in new work
or for replacement purposes.
   (D)   A ground rod shall be required at all new services and service change
outs. The ground rod shall not be less than eight feet in length and make of
stainless steel and copper or zinc coated and shall be at least five-eighths
inches in diameter.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 150.50  PERMITS FOR WORK; REQUIRED.
   (A)   No electrical wiring work, unless excepted in this section, shall be
undertaken prior to the issuance of a permit therefor by the Building
Department. Such permit shall be issued only to a registered contracting
electrician.
   (B)   Any permit by this code may be issued to any person to do work
regulated by this code in a single-family dwelling used exclusively for the
living purposes, including the usual accessory buildings and quarters in
connection with such buildings in the event that any such person is the bona
fide owner of any such dwelling and accessory buildings and quarters, and that
the same is currently occupied by said owner; provided, that said owner shall
personally purchase all material and shall personally perform all labor in
connection therein. No permit shall be issued to said owner for the
installation of a new electrical service and panel.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 150.51  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS NOT OTHERWISE DESIGNATED.
   If permits pursuant to the county code are requested for buildings or
structures not otherwise identified, valuations of the cost of such building
shall be based upon written estimates filed with the Building Department/
Inspector.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 150.52  COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS.
   For commercial and industrial buildings, permit fees to be collected
pursuant to this chapter shall be based upon the value as determined by the
figures fixed by the contract for construction.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 150.53  CONSTRUCTION PRIOR TO PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   When any construction, alteration or repair of buildings shall have been
started prior to the issuance of a permit, an investigation fee in addition to
the building permit fee shall be collected. The investigation fee shall be in
accordance with the fee schedule as adopted by the County Building Inspector.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016)
BUILDING PERMIT
§ 150.65  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Every person, firm or corporation desiring, within the corporate
limits of the village, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any
building or structure shall first submit a completed “application to build and
occupy” to the Municipal Clerk along with a copy of the plans for the building
or structure. The application may be obtained from the Municipal Clerk and must
be approved and signed by three Board members. The application and submitted
plans must be kept on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk. Upon approval
of the applicant’s application to build and occupy, the applicant shall then
apply to the County Building Inspector for approval of a building permit in
accordance with the requirements of §§
150.40 through
150.53.
   (B)   Furthermore, every person, firm or corporation desiring, within the
corporate limits of the village, to: make any installation, alteration or
repair concerning any plumbing system; or undertake any electrical work shall
apply to the County Building Inspector for an applicable permit, if any, in
accordance with the requirements of §§
150.40 through
150.53 prior to the commencement of such work.
   (C)   The fee for the permit for placement or removal of a mobile home shall
be $20 and shall be payable at the time of application.
(Ord. 283, passed 8-2-2016; Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016; Ord. 286, passed 12-6-
2016)
CHAPTER 151:  MOBILE HOME PARK STANDARDS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Permits
   
151.03   Licenses
   
151.04   Inspections
   
151.05   Notices, hearings and orders
   
151.06   Adoption of regulations by the Health Authority
   
151.07   Environmental, open space and access requirements
   
151.08   Water supply
   
151.09   Sewage disposal
   
151.10   Electrical distribution system
   
151.11   Open fires; fuel; fire facilities
   
151.12   Refuse handling
   
151.13   Insect and rodent control
   
151.14   Fuel supply and storage
   
151.15   Fire protection
   
151.16   Miscellaneous requirements
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY.  The legally designated Health Authority or its authorized
representative of the Village of Alda, Nebraska.
   LICENSE.  A written license issued by the Health Authority allowing a person
to operate and maintain a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter
and regulations issued hereunder.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A transportable, single-family dwelling unit suitable for year-
round occupancy and containing the same water supply, waste disposal and
electric conveniences as immobile housing; or
      (2)   Any other transportable dwelling unit, either self-propelled or
towed behind a vehicle, which is designed for temporary occupancy ordinarily
for recreational or camping purposes so long as such structure is otherwise
suitable for year-around occupancy and contains the same water supply, waste
disposal and electric conveniences as immobile housing.
   MOBILE HOME LOT.  A parcel of land for the placement of a single mobile/
manufactured home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for the placement of mobile/manufactured homes for non-
transient use.
   MOBILE HOME STAND.  The part of an individual lot which has been reserved
for the placement of the mobile/manufactured home, appurtenant structures or
additions.
   PERMIT.  A written permit issued by the Health Authority permitting the
construction, alteration and extension of a mobile home park under the
provisions of this chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, public or private
association or corporation.
   SERVICE BUILDING.  A structure housing toilet, lavatory and such other
facilities as may be required by this chapter.
   SEWER CONNECTION.  The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the drain outlet of the mobile/manufactured home to the
inlet of the corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewerage system serving the
mobile home park.
   SEWER RISER PIPE.  The portion of the sewer lateral which extends vertically
to the ground elevation and terminates at each mobile home lot.
   WATER CONNECTION.  The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the mobile/manufactured home.
   WATER RISER PIPE.  The portion of the water supply system serving the mobile
home park which extends vertically to the ground elevation and terminates at a
designated point at each mobile home lot.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016; Ord. 286, passed 12-6-2016)
§ 151.02  PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter or extend any
mobile home park within the limits of the village, unless he or she holds a
valid permit issued by the Health Authority in the name of such person for the
specific construction, alteration or extension proposed.
   (B)   All applications for permits shall be made to the Health Authority and
shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Interest of the applicant in the mobile home park;
      (3)   Location and legal description of the mobile home park; and
      (4)   Complete engineering plans and specifications of the proposed
mobile home park showing:
         (a)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
         (b)   The number, location and size of all mobile home lots;
         (c)   The location and width of roadways and walkways;
         (d)   The location of service buildings and any other proposed
structures;
         (e)   The location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes;
         (f)   Plans and specifications of the water supply and refuse and
sewage disposal facilities;
         (g)   Plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the mobile home park; and
         (h)   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems.
   (C)   All applications shall be accompanied by the deposit of a fee in an
amount set by resolution of the governing body.
   (D)   When, upon review of the application, the Health Authority is
satisfied that the proposed plan meets the requirements of this chapter and
regulations issued hereunder, a permit shall be issued.
   (E)   Any person whose application for a permit under this chapter has been
denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Health Authority under the procedure provided by §
151.05.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03  LICENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any mobile home park
within the limits of the village, unless he or she holds a valid license issued
annually by the Health Authority in the name of such person for the specific
mobile home park. All applications for licenses shall be made to the Health
Authority, who shall issue a license upon compliance by the applicant with
provisions of this chapter and regulations issued hereunder and of other
applicable legal requirements.
   (B)   Every person holding a license shall give notice in writing to the
Health Authority within 24 hours after having sold, transferred, given away or
otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any mobile home park. Such
notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding to the
ownership or control of such mobile home park. Upon application in writing for
transfer of the license and deposit of a fee in an amount set by resolution of
the governing body, the license shall be transferred if the mobile home park is
in compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter and regulations
issued hereunder.
      (1)   Applications for original licenses shall be in writing, signed by
the applicant, accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of
the application and by the deposit of a fee in an amount set by resolution of
the governing body, and shall contain the name and address of the applicant;
the location and legal description of the mobile home park; and a site plan of
the mobile home park showing all mobile home lots, structures, roads, walkways
and other service facilities.
      (2)   Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made in writing by
the holders of the licenses, shall be accompanied by the deposit of a fee in an
amount set by resolution of the governing body and shall contain any change in
the information submitted since the original license was issued or the latest
renewal granted.
   (C)   Any person whose application for a license under this chapter has been
denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Health Authority under the procedure provided by §
151.05.
   (D)   Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile home park, the Health
Authority finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of
any provision of this chapter or regulations issued hereunder, the Health
Authority shall give notice in writing in accordance with §
151.05 to the person to whom the license was issued that unless such conditions
or practices are corrected within a reasonable period of time specified in the
notice by the Health Authority, the license shall be suspended. At the end of
such period, the Health Authority shall reinspect such mobile home park and, if
such conditions or practices have not been corrected, he or she shall suspend
the license and give notice in writing of such suspension to the person to whom
the license is issued. Upon receipt of notice of such suspension, such person
shall cease operation of such mobile home park except as provided in §
151.05.
   (E)   Any person whose license has been suspended, or who has received
notice from the Health Authority that his or her license will be suspended
unless certain conditions or practices at the mobile home park are corrected,
may request and be granted a hearing on the matter before the Health Authority,
under the procedure provided by §
151.05; provided, that when no petition for such hearing shall have been filed
within ten days following the day on which notice of suspension was served,
such license shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked at the
expiration of such ten-day period.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Health Authority is hereby authorized and directed to make such
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this
chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
   (B)   The Health Authority shall have the power to enter at reasonable times
upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this chapter and
regulations issued hereunder.
   (C)   The Health Authority shall have the power to inspect the register
containing a record of all residents of the mobile home park.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of mobile home parks
and the mobile/manufactured homes contained therein, or of the person in charge
thereof, to give the Health Authority free access to such premises at
reasonable times for the purpose of inspection.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a mobile home park to give
the owner thereof or his or her agent or employee access to any part of such
mobile home park or its premises at reasonable times for the purpose of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with this
chapter and regulations issued hereunder, or with any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 151.05  NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever the Health Authority determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this
chapter, or regulations issued hereunder, the Health Authority shall give
notice of such alleged violation to the person to whom the permit or license
was issued, as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent as the case may
require; provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been
properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by
certified mail to his or her last known address, or when he or she has been
served with such notice by any method authorized or required by the laws of
this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and regulations issued
hereunder.
   (C)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, or regulations issued
hereunder, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Health Authority; provided, that such person shall file in the office of the
Health Authority a written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a
brief statement of the grounds therefor within ten days after the day the
notice was served. The filing of the request for a hearing shall operate as a
stay of the notice and of the suspension, except in the case of an order issued
under this section. Upon receipt of such petition, the Health Authority shall
set a time and place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written
notice thereof. At such hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity
to be heard and to show why such notice should be modified or withdrawn. The
hearing shall be commenced not later than ten days after the day on which the
petition was filed; provided, that upon application of the petitioner, the
Health Authority may postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable time
beyond such ten-day period when in his or her judgment the petitioner has
submitted good and sufficient reasons for such postponement.
   (D)   After such hearing, the Health Authority shall make findings as to
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and regulations issued hereunder
and shall issue an order in writing sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the
notice which shall be served as provided in this section. Upon failure to
comply with any order sustaining or modifying a notice, the license of the
mobile home park affected by the order shall be revoked.
   (E)   The proceedings at such a hearing, including the findings and decision
of the Health Authority, and together with a copy of every notice and order
related thereto shall be entered as a matter of public record in the office of
the Health Authority but the transcript of the proceedings need not be
transcribed unless judicial review of the decision is sought as provided by
this section. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Health Authority may
seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction, as provided by
the laws of this state.
   (F)   Whenever the Health Authority finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health, he or she may, without
notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency
and requiring that such action may be taken as he or she may deem necessary to
meet the emergency including the suspension of the permit or license.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the Health Authority shall
be afforded a hearing as soon as possible. The provisions of this section shall
be applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 151.06  ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY THE HEALTH AUTHORITY.
   The Health Authority is hereby authorized to make and, after public hearing,
to adopt such written regulations as may be necessary for the proper
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. Such regulations shall have the
same force and effect as the provisions of this chapter and the penalty for
violation of the provisions thereof shall be the same as the penalty for
violation of the provisions of this chapter, as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 151.07  ENVIRONMENTAL, OPEN SPACE AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Site drainage requirements. The ground surface in all parts of every
mobile/manufactured home shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface
water in a safe, efficient manner.
   (B)   Mobile home park areas for non-resident uses.
      (1)   No part of any mobile home park shall be used for non-residential
purposes, except such uses that are required for the direct servicing and well-
being of mobile home park residents and for the management and maintenance of
the mobile home park.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed as prohibiting
the sale of a mobile/manufactured home located on a mobile home stand and
connected to the pertinent utilities.
   (C)   Required separation between mobile/manufactured homes.
      (1)   Mobile/manufactured homes shall be separated from each other and
from other buildings and structures by at least 15 feet; provided, that mobile/
manufactured homes placed end-to-end have a clearance of ten feet where
opposing rear walls are staggered.
      (2)   An accessory structure which has a horizontal area exceeding 25
square feet, is attached to a mobile/manufactured home or located within ten
feet of its window, and has an opaque top or roof that is higher than the
nearest window shall, for the purposes of all separation requirements, be
considered to be part of the mobile/manufactured home.
   (D)   Required setbacks, buffer strips and screening.
      (1)   All mobile/manufactured homes shall be located at least 25 feet
from any mobile home park property boundary line abutting upon a public street
or highway and at least 15 feet from other mobile home park property boundary
lines.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet between an individual
mobile/manufactured home and adjoining pavement of a mobile home park street,
or common parking areas or other common areas.
      (3)   All mobile home parks located adjacent to industrial or commercial
land uses shall be provided with screening such as fences or natural growth
along the property boundary lines separating the mobile home park and such
adjacent non-residential uses.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 151.08  WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   General requirements. An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply
of water shall be provided in each mobile home park. Where a public supply of
water of satisfactory quantity, quality and pressure is available, connection
shall be made thereto and its supply used exclusively.
   (B)   Source of supply. The water supply shall be capable of supplying a
minimum of 150 gallons per day per mobile/manufactured home.
   (C)   Water distribution system.
      (1)   The water supply system of the mobile home park shall be connected
by pipes to all mobile/manufactured homes, buildings and other facilities
requiring water.
      (2)   All water piping, fixtures and other equipment shall be constructed
and maintained in accordance with state and local regulations and requirements
and shall be of a type and in locations approved by the Health Authority.
      (3)   The water piping system shall not be connected with non-potable or
questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the hazards of
backflow or backsiphonage.
      (4)   The system shall be so designed and maintained as to provide a
pressure of not less than 20 pounds per square inch, under normal operating
conditions at service buildings and other locations requiring potable water
supply.
   (D)   Individual water riser pipes and connections.
      (1)   Individual water riser pipes shall be located within the confined
area of the mobile home stand at a point where the water connection will
approximate a vertical position.
      (2)   Water riser pipes shall extend at least four inches above ground
elevation. The pipe shall be at least three-quarter inch. The water outlet
shall be capped when a mobile/manufactured home does not occupy the lot.
      (3)   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service
lines, valves and riser pipes and to protect risers from heaving and thawing
actions of ground during freezing weather. Surface drainage shall be diverted
from the location of the riser pipes.
      (4)   A shutoff valve below the frost line shall be provided near the
water riser pipe on each mobile home lot.
      (5)   Underground stop and waste valves shall not be installed on any
water service.
   (E)   Water meters. Individual water meters may be installed for any mobile/
manufactured home at the option of the owner of a mobile home park. The owner
of the mobile home park shall be the owner of the water meter and shall be
responsible for the expense of any installation, repair and/or replacement of
the water mater. All waters meters in use shall be kept in good repair by the
owner of the mobile home park. Any water meter shall be installed, repaired or
replaced only by a plumber duly licensed in the state. The municipality shall
have unrestricted access to all water meters and the consumer shall permit the
designated agent of the municipality for the purposes of reading those water
meters. Should a consumer’s water meter fail to register properly, the consumer
shall be charged for water during the time the water meter is out of repair on
the basis of the monthly consumption during the same month of the preceding
year; provided, that if no such basis for comparison exists, the customer shall
be charged such amount as may be reasonably fixed by the governing body. It
shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter, or by
means of any device to divert water from the service pipe so that the same
shall not pass through said water meter, or while passing through said water
meter, to cause the same to register inaccurately.
   (F)   Upon the installation of a water meter, the occupant of the mobile/
manufactured home served by the water meter, as the consumer, shall pay to the
Village Clerk a $50 refundable deposit for utility service and shall thereafter
be directly billed for water service. Subject to anything herein to the
contrary, the provisions of Chapter 52 of the municipal code shall be
applicable to any water meter installed for a mobile/manufactured home,
including, but not limited to, the procedures for water billing and liability
therefor.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016; Ord. 286, passed 12-6-2016)
§ 151.09  SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   General requirements. An adequate and safe sewerage system shall be
provided in all mobile home parks for conveying and disposing of all sewage.
Such system shall be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with
state and local laws.
   (B)   Sewer lines. All sewer lines shall be located in trenches of
sufficient depth to be free of breakage from traffic or other movements and
shall be separated from the mobile home park water supply system at a safe
distance. Sewers shall be at a grade which will ensure a velocity of two feet
per second when flowing full. All sewer lines shall be constructed of materials
approved by the Health Authority, shall be adequately vented, and shall have
watertight joints.
   (C)   Individual sewer connections.
      (1)   Each mobile home stand shall be provided with at least a four-inch
diameter sewer riser pipe. The sewer riser pipe shall be so located on each
stand that the sewer connection to the mobile/manufactured home drain outlet
will approximate a vertical position.
      (2)   The sewer connection (see definition) shall have a nominal inside
diameter of at least three inches, and the slope of any portion thereof shall
be at least one-fourth inch per foot. The sewer connection shall consist of one
pipe line only without any branch fittings. All joints shall be watertight.
      (3)   All materials used for sewer connections shall be semi-rigid,
corrosive resistant, nonabsorbent and durable. The inner surface shall be
smooth.
      (4)   Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer riser pipe when a
mobile/manufactured home does not occupy the lot. Surface drainage shall be
diverted away from the riser. The rim of the riser pipe shall extend at least
four inches above ground elevation.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 151.10  ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   General requirements. Every mobile home park shall contain an
electrical wiring system consisting of wiring, fixtures, equipment and
appurtenances which shall be installed and maintained in accordance with
applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
   (B)   Power distribution lines.
      (1)   Main power lines not located underground shall be suspended at
least 18 feet above the ground. There shall be a minimum horizontal clearance
of three feet between overhead wiring and any mobile/manufactured home, service
building or other structure.
      (2)   All direct burial conductors or cable shall be buried at least 18
inches below the ground surface and shall be insulated and specially designed
for the purpose. Such conductors shall be located not less than one foot radial
distance from water, sewer, gas or communication lines.
   (C)   Individual electrical connections.
      (1)   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with an approved
disconnecting device and overcurrent protective equipment. The minimum service
per outlet shall be 120/240 volts AC, 50 amperes.
      (2)   Outlet receptacles at each mobile home stand shall be located not
more than 25 feet from the overcurrent protective devices in the mobile/
manufactured home and a three-pole, four-wire grounding type shall be used.
Receptacles shall be of weatherproof construction and configurations shall be
in accordance with American Standard Outlet Receptacles C-73.1.
      (3)   Where the calculated load of the mobile/manufactured home is more
than 50 amperes either a second outlet receptacle shall be installed or
electrical service shall be provided by means of permanently installed
conductors.
   (D)   Required grounding. All exposed noncurrent carrying metal parts of
mobile/manufactured homes and all other equipment shall be grounded by means of
an approved grounding conductor with branch circuit conductors or other
approved method of grounded metallic wiring. The neutral conductor shall not be
used as an equipment ground for mobile/manufactured homes or other equipment.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 151.11  OPEN FIRES; FUEL; FIRE FACILITIES.
   Cooking shelters, barbecue pits, fireplaces, woodburning stove and
incinerators shall be so located, constructed, maintained and used as to
minimize fire hazards and smoke nuisance both on the property on which used and
on neighboring property. No open fire shall be permitted except in facilities
provided. No open fire shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no
material burned which emits dense smoke or objectionable odors.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.12  REFUSE HANDLING.
   (A)   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park
shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect
breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   (B)   All refuse shall be stored in flytight, watertight, rodent-proof
containers, which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any mobile home
lot. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to properly
store all refuse.
   (C)   Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse containers.
Such container stands shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being
tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate
cleaning around them.
   (D)   All refuse containing garbage shall be collected at least twice
weekly. Where suitable collection service is not available from municipal or
private agencies, the mobile home park operator shall provide this service. All
refuse shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles or covered
containers.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 151.13  INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect
and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures
to control insects and rodents shall conform with the requirements of the
Health Authority.
   (B)   Mobile home parks shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris
which may provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and
other pests.
   (C)   Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage;
lumber, pipe and other building material shall be stored at least one foot
above the ground.
   (D)   Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all
exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened
with wire mesh or other suitable materials.
   (E)   The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled to prevent
harborage of ticks, chiggers and other noxious insects. mobile home parks shall
be so maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak,
poison sumac and other noxious weeds considered detrimental to health. Open
areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 151.14  FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Natural gas systems.
      (1)   Natural gas piping systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
      (2)   Each mobile home lot provided with piped gas shall have an approved
manual shutoff valve installed upstream of the gas outlet. The outlet shall be
equipped with an approved cap to prevent accidental discharge of gas when the
outlet is not in use.
   (B)   Liquefied petroleum gas systems.
      (1)   Liquefied petroleum gas systems shall be installed and maintained
in accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
      (2)   Systems shall be provided with safety devices to relieve excessive
pressures and shall be arranged so that the discharge terminates at a safe
location.
      (3)   Systems shall have at least one accessible means for shutting off
gas. Such means shall be located outside the mobile/manufactured home and shall
be maintained in effective operating condition.
      (4)   All LPG piping outside of the mobile/manufactured homes shall be
well supported and protected against mechanical injury. Undiluted liquefied
petroleum gas in liquid form shall not be conveyed through piping equipment and
systems in mobile/manufactured homes.
      (5)   Liquefied petroleum gas containers installed on a mobile home lot
shall be securely but not permanently fastened to prevent accidental
overturning. Such containers shall not be less than 12 nor more than 60 U.S.
gallons gross capacity.
      (6)   No liquefied petroleum gas vessel shall be stored or located inside
or beneath any storage cabinet, carport, mobile/manufactured home or any other
structure, unless such installations are approved by the Health Authority.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 151.15  FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   The mobile home park shall be subject to the rules and regulations of
the village’s Fire Prevention Authority.
   (B)   Mobile home parks shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other
flammable materials.
   (C)   Portable fire extinguishers of a type approved by the Fire Prevention
Authority shall be kept in service buildings and at all other locations
designated by the Fire Prevention Authority and shall be maintained in good
operating condition.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 151.16  MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Responsibilities of mobile home park management.
      (1)   The person to whom a license for a mobile home park is issued shall
operate the mobile home park in compliance with this chapter and regulations
issued hereunder and shall provide adequate supervision to maintain the mobile
home park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      (2)   Mobile home park management shall notify mobile home park occupants
of all applicable provisions of this chapter and inform them of their duties
and responsibilities under this chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
      (3)   Mobile home park management shall supervise the placement of each
mobile/manufactured home on its mobile home stand, which includes securing its
stability and installing all utility connections.
      (4)   Mobile home park management shall maintain a register containing
the names of all mobile home park occupants. Such register shall be available
to any authorized person inspecting the mobile home park.
      (5)   Mobile home park management shall ensure that all mobile/
manufactured homes are clearly numbered for emergency contact purposes.
   (B)   Responsibilities of mobile home park occupants.
      (1)   Each mobile home park occupant shall comply with all applicable
requirements of this chapter and regulations issued hereunder and shall
maintain his or her mobile home lot, its facilities and equipment in good
repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (2)   Each mobile home park occupant shall be responsible for proper
placement of his or her mobile/manufactured home on its mobile home stand and
proper installation of all utility connections in accordance with the
instructions of mobile home park management.
      (3)   No owner or person in charge of a dog, cat or other pet animal
shall permit it to run at large or to commit any nuisance within the limits of
any mobile home lot.
   (C)   Restrictions on occupancy. A mobile/manufactured home shall not be
occupied for dwelling purposes unless it is properly placed on a mobile home
stand and connected to water, sewerage and electrical utilities.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall upon conviction
be punished by a fine of not less than $1 nor more than $100; and each day’s
failure of compliance with any such provision shall constitute a separate
violation.
(Ord. 285, passed 9-6-2016)
CHAPTER 152:  FLOOD HAZARD
Section
   
152.01   Regulations adopted
   
152.02   Abatement of nuisance
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   To provide the public with information concerning the potential of surface
water inundation of certain areas of the jurisdiction of the municipality and
to require that all new buildings or uses or additions within those areas shall
be provided with proper flood protection; to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare and to minimize those losses of life and property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base which result from the inundation of flood hazard
areas; and to assure the Federal Insurance Administration that adequate land
use and control measures with effective enforcement provisions are enacted and
maintained in force for those areas having flood hazards, the flood hazard
regulations for the village, have been adopted by Ord. 79, 5-3-1977 and
published in pamphlet form. Three copies of the adopted flood hazard
regulations shall be kept on file with the Municipal Clerk and available for
inspection by any member of the public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-301)  (Ord. 250, passed 8-5-2008)
§ 152.02  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 11-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 11-401)
CHAPTER 153:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
153.01   Regulations adopted
   
153.02   Rezoning requests and conditional use permits
   
153.03   Planning; subdivisions; platting; designation of extraterritorial
jurisdiction
   
153.04   Abatement of nuisance
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01  REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   To provide for harmonious development of the municipality and its environs;
for the integration of new subdivision streets with other existing or planned
streets or with other features of the comprehensive plan; for adequate open
spaces for traffic, recreation, light and air; for the distribution of
population and traffic in a manner which will tend to create conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience or prosperity; to ensure conformance
of subdivision plans with the capital improvement program of the municipality;
and, to secure equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing uniform
procedures and standards for observance by subdividers and the Planning
Commission and governing body, the subdivision regulations for the village, as
prepared by the Regional Planning Commission and published in pamphlet form,
have been adopted by Ord. 72, 11-4-1975. Three copies of the adopted
subdivision regulations shall be kept on file with the Municipal Clerk and
available for inspection by any member of the public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-201)
§ 153.02  REZONING REQUESTS AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   At the time of filing a final plat in respect to any proposed
subdivision within the zoning jurisdiction of the village, the applicant shall
pay to the village a nonrefundable processing fee in the amount of $50.
   (B)   In addition to the processing fees outline herein, the applicant shall
also reimburse the village for any and all publication expenses, if any,
required to be incurred by reason of such subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 11-202)  (Ord. 152, passed 10-2-1990)
§ 153.03  PLANNING; SUBDIVISIONS; PLATTING; DESIGNATION OF EXTRATERRITORIAL
JURISDICTION.
   The territory located within one mile of the corporate limits of the
municipality is hereby designated as within the municipality’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction for the purpose of exercising the powers and duties granted by
Neb. RS 17-1002 and 17-1003, with respect to subdivisions and platting. The
boundaries of the territory so designated shall be as shown on the official
zoning map, a copy of which is attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(Prior Code, § 11-203)  (Ord. 209, passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1002, 17-1004
§ 153.04  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 11-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 11-401)
CHAPTER 154:  ZONING
Section
   
154.01   Regulations adopted
   
154.02   Sale of small tracts of land for single-family dwellings
   
154.03   Fees and expenses
   
154.04   Abatement of nuisance
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01  REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public
health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of
the community, and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from
fire, panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent
the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks and other public requirements, the zoning regulations for the village, as
prepared by Regional Planning Commission, pursuant to the Inter-local
Cooperation Act, Neb. RS 13-801 through 13-827 and published in pamphlet form,
have been adopted by Ord. 43, passed 10-7-1969, and amended by Ord. 73 and Ord.
74, passed 3-2-1976.
   (B)   Three copies of the adopted zoning regulations shall be kept on file
with the Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the
public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)  (Ord. 250, passed 8-5-2008; Ord. 257, passed 9-14-2010;
Ord. 258, passed 9-14-2010; Ord. 279, passed 1-5-2016; Ord. 281, passed 4-5-
2016; Ord. 289, passed 8-1-2017)
§ 154.02  SALE OF SMALL TRACTS OF LAND FOR SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   The sale of small tracts of land for single-family dwelling, subject
to the conditions below of this section, shall be permitted in districts zoned
AG-1 or AG-2, when:
      (1)   The proposed small tract is being sold as a portion of a tract of
80 acres or more for use as a site for construction of a single-family
dwelling, providing no such sale has been previously exercised upon the large
tract; or
      (2)   The proposed small tracts sale contains a farm or ranch single-
family dwelling that has existed in that location for ten or more years.
   (B)   All small tract sales shall meet the following space limitations:
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be 20,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be 80 feet;
      (3)   Minimum front yard shall be 30 feet;
      (4)   Minimum rear yard shall be 25 feet;
      (5)   Minimum side yard shall be 15 feet;
      (6)   Maximum ground coverage shall be 40%;
      (7)   Maximum height of structures intended for human occupancy shall be
35 feet; and
      (8)   No maximum height restrictions apply to structures not intended for
human occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 11-102)  (Ord. 145, passed 2-7-1989)
§ 154.03  FEES AND EXPENSES.
   The following fees and requirements of reimbursement for expenses shall be
assessed by the village in respect to the following applications.
   (A)   At the time of filing an application of a request for re-zoning or
amendment to existing zoning (map or text), the applicant shall pay to the
village a non-refundable processing fee in the amount of $50.
   (B)   At the time of filing an application for conditional use permit, the
applicant shall pay to the village a nonrefundable processing fee in the amount
of $25.
   (C)   In addition to the processing fees outlined herein, the applicant
shall also reimburse the village for any and all publication expenses required
to be incurred by reason of such application.
(Prior Code, § 11-103)  (Ord. 152, passed 10-2-1990)
§ 154.04  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 11-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
(Prior Code, § 11-402)
§ 154.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 11-401)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   LAND USAGE
      
IV.   REZONING
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
265  10-2-  Annexes a parcel of land located in the southwest quarter of Section 5,
     2012   Township 10 North, Range 10 West
266  5-7-   Annexes a parcel of land located in the southwest quarter of Section 5,
     2013   Township 10 North, Range 10 West
267  5-7-   Annexes a parcel of land located in the southwest quarter of Section 5,
     2013   Township 10 North, Range 10 West
268  5-7-   Annexes a parcel of land located in Lot 13, County Subdivision of the NW1/
     2013   4 and W1/2 NE1/4 of Section 5, Township 10 North, Range 10 West
269  5-7-   Annexes a parcel of land located in the southwest quarter of Section 5,
     2013   Township 10 North, Range 10 West
270  5-7-   Annexes a parcel of land located in the southwest quarter of Section 5,
     2013   Township 10 North, Range 10 West
271  5-7-   Annexes a parcel of land located in the southwest quarter of Section 5,
     2013   Township 10 North, Range 10 West
272  5-7-   Annexes a parcel of land located in the northeast quarter of Section 5,
     2013   Township 10 North, Range 10 West
295  7-2-   Annexes a tract of land (Virgil Powell Subdivision)  comprising a part of the
     2019   E1/2SE1/4 of Section 32, T11N, R10W
           
 
TABLE II:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Grants to Northwestern Public Service Company a gas
-        - -         franchise
                     (Prior Code, § 10-401)
                     Grants to the North Central Nebraska Public Power District
-        - -         (NPPD) a light and power franchise
                     (Prior Code, § 10-402)
282      5-3-2016    Grants to Charter Communications a non-exclusive cable
                     franchise for use of public ways
288      1-3-2017    Grants to Charter Communications a non-exclusive cable
                     franchise for use of public ways
 
TABLE III:  LAND USAGE
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
243      2-1-2005    Includes Prairieland Subdivision as an addition to the
                     village
291      10-3-2017   Sale of real estate under certain terms
 
TABLE IV:  REZONING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
275      5-9-2014    Rezones land to I-1 Light Industrial
263      10-3-2012   Rezones lot 3, Fetch Subdivision from R9 Single-Family
                     Residential to BGC General Commercial District
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Reference Code Section
Neb. RS Reference         Code Section
10-209 through 10-411     33.19
10-606 through 10-612     33.19
Chapter 11, Article 1     36.31
11-101                    30.041
11-101.01                 32.11
11-103 through 11-118     30.040
12-1001                   33.19
13-310                    93.22
13-312                    93.22
13-314                    93.22
13-501 through 13-522     33.06
13-504                    33.02
13-506                    33.03
13-508                    33.04
13-510                    33.13
13-511                    33.13
13-606                    33.10
13-801 through 13-827     154.01
17-134                    111.01
                          32.01,
17-202                    32.03,
                          32.23
17-202 through 17-204     30.002
17-202 through 17-210     30.001
17-203                    32.23
                          30.064,
                          30.067,
17-204                    30.068,
                          30.069,
                          30.070
                          30.064,
17-205                    30.069,
                          30.070
                          30.003,
17-207                    51.03,
                          51.04,
                          130.02
                          30.015,
17-208                    35.02,
                          92.01,
                          92.02
17-209.02                 30.016,
                          30.085
17-210                    30.064,
                          30.069
17-213                    30.021,
                          30.022
17-214                    30.025
17-502                    11.01
17-503                    93.03
17-503.01                 93.03
                          10.99,
17-505                    30.023,
                          31.01
17-509                    93.52
17-510                    93.50
17-511                    93.49,
                          93.51
17-512                    93.53
17-522                    93.22,
                          93.24
17-524                    93.22,
                          93.49
17-523                    93.24
                          111.01,
                          113.01,
17-525                    113.03,
                          113.04,
                          113.05,
                          113.06
                          90.20,
                          90.21,
                          90.23,
                          90.24,
17-526                    90.25,
                          90.28,
                          90.29,
                          90.31,
                          90.35
17-531                    52.01
17-534                    52.01
                          52.06,
                          52.14,
                          52.15,
17-537                    52.18,
                          52.19,
                          52.21,
                          52.22
17-538                    52.13
17-539                    52.17
17-540                    52.10
17-541                    30.025
17-542                    52.07,
                          52.12
17-543                    30.025
17-547                    90.01,
                          90.05
17-548                    90.32,
                          90.33
17-556                    130.01,
                          130.03
17-557                    93.20
17-557.01                 93.04,
                          93.07
17-558                    93.41,
                          93.56
17-559                    93.41,
                          93.56
17-567                    93.02
17-568                    30.024
17-568.01                 30.024,
                          33.09
17-574                    53.01
17-575                    53.05
17-602                    32.12
17-604                    30.040
17-605                    30.018
17-606                    30.019
17-607                    33.17
17-608                    33.18
17-609                    33.18
17-610                    30.020
17-612                    30.085
                          31.04,
                          31.07,
17-613                    31.08,
                          31.09,
                          33.09
                          10.15,
17-614                    31.05,
                          31.06,
                          31.10
17-616                    30.061
17-701                    33.01
17-702                    33.07
17-706                    33.06
17-708                    33.08
17-710                    33.14
17-711                    33.12
17-714                    33.11
17-715                    33.11
17-718                    36.01
17-902                    53.03
17-919                    30.024
17-925.01                 53.01,
                          53.16
17-953                    36.01,
                          93.08
17-953.01                 93.08
17-954                    93.08
17-1002                   153.03
17-1003                   153.03
17-1004                   153.03
18-132                    10.16,
                          92.03
18-412                    34.14
18-412.02                 34.14
18-1001 to 18-1006        93.03
18-1719                   130.04
                          10.99,
                          54.11,
                          92.25,
                          92.26,
                          92.27,
18-1720                   92.28,
                          92.30,
                          130.05,
                          130.29,
                          150.25,
                          152.02,
                          153.04
                          10.99,
                          54.11,
                          92.30,
18-1722                   130.29,
                          150.25,
                          152.02,
                          153.04,
                          154.04
18-1722.01                150.25
18-1748                   53.10,
                          93.55
18-1755                   93.08
18-2501 through 18-2511   34.01
18-2501 through 18-2531   34.99
18-2512                   34.02
18-2513                   34.02
18-2514                   34.03
18-2515                   34.03
18-2516                   34.04
18-2517                   34.05
18-2518                   34.06
18-2519                   34.07
18-2520                   34.08
18-2521                   34.09
18-2522                   34.10
18-2523 through 18-2526   34.11
18-2527                   34.12
18-2528                   34.12
18-2529 through 18-2531   34.13
18-2532 through 18-2535   34.99
18-2536                   34.14
18-2537                   34.14
18-2801 through 18-2808   33.01,
                          33.02
18-3301                   30.024
19-710                    92.29
19-902                    92.03
19-1101                   30.019
19-1102                   30.018
19-1103                   30.019
19-1104                   30.018
19-1301 through 19-1304   33.15
19-1305                   52.01
19-2106                   51.02
19-2428 through 19-2431   93.54
19-2901 through 19-2909   33.10
19-3801                   36.32
20-203                    90.50
25-1801                   50.02
Chapter 28, Article 3     110.06
Chapter 28, Article 4     110.06
28-416                    130.18,
                          130.19
28-416(4)                 130.17
28-416(6)                 130.17
28-431                    130.06
28-502                    130.14
28-503                    130.15
28-504                    130.16
28-519                    91.03,
                          130.13
28-520                    90.50,
                          130.10
28-521                    90.50,
                          130.10
28-609                    36.12
Chapter 28, Article 7     110.06
Chapter 28, Article 8     110.06
28-904                    130.20
28-905(1)                 130.21
28-906                    90.26,
                          130.22
28-907                    130.23
                          91.02,
28-908                    91.04,
                          91.10
Chapter 28, Article 10    110.06
Chapter 28, Article 11    110.06
Chapter 28, Article 12    110.06
28-1241                   91.45
28-1242                   91.48
28-1245                   91.46,
                          91.47
28-1246                   91.49
28-1249                   91.49
28-1322                   130.24
29-407                    130.26
29-422                    70.42
29-424                    70.42
29-426                    130.25
29-431                    70.99
29-4015 to 29-4017        131.01
32-102                    32.12
32-404(2)                 32.01
32-405                    32.05
32-504                    32.08
32-513                    32.07,
                          32.08
32-532                    32.23
32-535                    32.08
32-537                    32.16
32-554                    32.23
32-556                    32.01
32-559                    32.05
32-713                    32.08
32-952 through 32-959     32.05
32-1401 through 32-1408   32.17
32-1406                   30.004
32-1525                   32.24
33-139.01                 36.03
35-101 through 35-103     36.03
35-102                    30.023
35-106                    113.02
35-108                    30.023,
                          36.03
38-201 through 38-212     92.05
38-601 through 38-618     92.05
38-1201 through 38-1237   92.05
38-2201 through 38-2238   92.05
38-2501 through 38-2531   92.05
38-3101 through 38-3133   92.05
39-311                    70.20,
                          70.21
39-610                    70.48
49-1408                   30.086
49-1499.04                30.086
49-14,102                 30.086
49-14,103.01              30.086
49-14,103.02              30.086
49-14,103.03              30.086
49-14,103.05              30.086
49-801(16)                10.05
Chapter 53                112.08
53-101.01                 110.25
53-103                    110.01
53-116.01                 110.23
53-118                    110.18
53-124                    110.17,
                          112.01
53-124.03                 110.06
53-125                    110.06
53-131                    110.07
53-132                    110.07
                          110.07,
53-134                    110.09,
                          110.25,
                          110.26
53-134.04                 110.24
53-135                    110.08
53-135.01                 110.08
53-148                    110.05
53-154.03                 110.16
                          110.02,
53-168.06                 110.19,
                          110.21,
                          110.25
53-175                    110.21
53-177                    110.03
53-178                    110.04
53-179                    110.17
53-180                    110.12
53-180.02                 130.09
53-183                    110.13
53-184                    110.15
53-186                    110.20
53-186.01                 110.20
53-194.03                 110.21
53-1,101                  110.10
53-1,102                  110.11
53-1,121                  110.22
54-601                    90.30
54-602                    90.30
54-603                    90.20,
                          90.21
54-603(3)                 90.20
54-606                    90.22
54-607                    90.23
54-617                    90.50
54-618                    90.51
54-619                    90.52
54-620                    90.53
54-624                    90.54
60-302                    73.01,
                          73.04
60-311                    73.04,
                          73.05
60-321                    73.01,
                          73.04
60-323                    73.01,
                          73.05
60-376                    130.06
Chapter 60, Article 4     73.01
60-489                    73.02
60-491                    73.03
60-498.01 to 60-498.04    130.28
Chapter 60, Article 6     70.01
60-606 through 60-676     70.01
60-678                    71.03
                          70.03 through
                          70.05,
                          70.28,
                          70.29,
                          70.35,
                          70.39,
60-680                    70.40,
                          72.01,
                          72.02,
                          72.03,
                          72.06,
                          72.08,
                          72.10,
                          72.11
60-681                    70.02
60-1901                   130.06
60-1902                   130.06
60-1903                   130.06
60-1903.01                130.06
60-1905                   130.06
60-1906                   130.06
60-2,294                  93.46
60-4,118                  73.02
60-4,182                  70.25
60-4,186                  73.01
60-6,110                  70.39
60-6,114                  72.09
60-6,119 through 60-6,121 70.03,
                          70.04
60-6,129                  70.22,
                          70.49
60-6,130                  70.49
60-6,133                  70.31
60-6,136                  70.30
60-6,137                  70.30
60-6,139                  70.32
60-6,140                  70.44
60-6,146 through 60-6,154 70.08
60-6,148                  70.04
60-6,159                  70.06
60-6,160                  70.05
60-6,161 through 60-6,163 70.07
                          70.29,
60-6,166                  72.04,
                          72.05,
                          91.05
60-6,165                  72.11
60-6,167                  72.07
60-6,169                  70.28
60-6,178                  70.37
60-6,179                  70.34,
                          70.35
60-6,180                  70.47
60-6,183                  70.33,
                          91.08
60-6,184                  91.07
60-6,186                  70.23
60-6,190                  70.23,
                          70.24
60-6,193                  70.45
60-6,195                  70.46
60-6,196                  130.28
60-6,197                  130.28
60-6,201                  130.28
60-6,203                  130.28
60-6,212                  70.27
60-6,213                  70.25
60-6,214                  70.26
60-6,215                  70.25
60-6,216                  70.26
60-6,217                  70.26
60-6,219                  73.06
60-6,220                  73.06
60-6,224                  73.06
60-6,235                  73.06
60-6,244                  73.06
60-6,250                  73.09,
                          93.46
60-6,254                  73.07
60-6,255                  73.07
60-6,256                  73.07
60-6,267                  70.48
60-6,268                  70.99
60-6,285                  73.06
60-6,286                  73.08
60-6,308                  70.32
60-6,316                  70.36
60-6,335                  71.15,
                          71.16
60-6,337                  71.16
60-6,338                  71.17
60-6,343                  71.99
60-6,347                  71.01
60-6,348                  71.02
60-6,352                  71.01
70-624.04                 30.086
70-1601 to 70-1615        50.03
70-1603                   50.01
70-1604                   50.01
70-1605                   52.12
71-401 through 71-469     92.05
71-506                    92.11
71-1626                   92.05
71-1631.01                92.11
71-1631(10)               92.09
71-1908 through 71-1923   131.01
71-3702 to 71-3706        92.05
71-4401                   90.22
71-4402                   90.37
71-4406                   90.34
71-4408                   90.33
71-4410                   90.38
71-4412                   90.20
71-5716 through 71-5735   130.27
71-5730                   130.27
77-1343                   93.54
77-2201                   30.019
77-2201 through 77-2215   30.019
77-2202                   30.019
77-2209                   30.019
77-2210                   30.019
77-2337                   33.15
77-2339                   33.15
77-2341                   33.18
77-2362 through 77-2364   33.17
77-3444                   32.05
Chapter 79                131.01
81-506                    30.023,
                          36.15
81-512                    30.023,
                          36.10
81-1444                   36.31
81-2005                   70.38
81-3115                   92.05
84-712                    30.018
84-1201 through 84-1220   30.018
84-1408                   30.057
84-1409                   30.057
84-1409(1)                30.056
84-1409(2)                30.055
84-1410                   30.058
                          30.057,
84-1411                   30.059,
                          30.062
84-1412                   30.060,
                          30.063
                          30.057,
84-1413                   30.060,
                          30.061
86-329 through 86-330     50.03
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2019 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2019 Code Section
1-101              30.001
1-102              30.002
1-103              30.003
1-104              30.004
1-201              30.015
1-202              30.016
1-203              30.017
1-204              30.018
1-205              30.019
1-208              30.020
1-209              30.021
1-210              30.022
1-211              30.023
1-212              30.024
1-213              30.025
1-301              30.040
1-302              30.041
1-401              11.01
1-501              30.055
1-502              30.056
1-503              30.057
1-504              30.058
1-505              30.059
1-506              30.060
1-507              30.061
1-508              30.062
1-509              30.063
1-510              30.064
1-511              30.065
1-512              30.066
1-513              30.067
1-514              30.068
1-515              30.069
1-516              30.070
1-601              31.01
1-602              31.02
1-603              31.03
1-604              31.04
1-605              31.05
1-606              31.06
1-607              31.07
1-608              31.08
1-609              31.09
1-610              31.10
1-701              32.01
1-702              32.02
1-704              32.03
1-705              32.04
1-706              32.05
1-706.01           32.06
1-707              32.07
1-708              32.08
1-709              32.09
1-710              32.10
1-711              32.11
1-712              32.12
1-713              32.13
1-714              32.14
1-715              32.15
1-716              32.16
1-717              32.17
1-718              32.18
1-719              32.19
1-720              32.20
1-721              32.21
1-722              32.22
1-723              32.23
1-724              32.24
1-801              33.01
1-802              33.02
1-803              33.03
1-804              33.04
1-805              33.05
1-806              33.06
1-807              33.07
1-808              33.08
1-809              33.09
1-810              33.10
1-811              33.11
1-812              33.12
1-813              33.13
1-814              33.14
1-815              33.15
1-816              33.16
1-817              33.17
1-818              33.18
1-819              33.19
1-901              30.085
1-902              30.086
1-903              30.087
1-904              30.088
1-1001             34.01
1-1002             34.02
1-1003             34.03
1-1004             34.04
1-1005             34.05
1-1006             34.06
1-1007             34.07
1-1008             34.08
1-1009             34.09
1-1010             34.10
1-1011             34.11
1-1012             34.12
1-1013             34.13
1-1014             34.99
1-1015             34.14
1-1101             34.99
2-101              35.01
2-201              35.02
2-301              35.99
3-126              52.99
3-136              52.99
3-201              53.01
3-202              53.02
3-203              53.03
3-204              53.04
3-205              53.05
3-206              53.06
3-207              53.07
3-208              53.08
3-209              53.09
3-210              53.10
3-211              53.11
3-212              53.12
3-213              53.13
3-214              53.14
3-215              53.15
3-216              53.16
3-217              53.17
3-301              36.01
3-302              36.02
3-303              36.03
3-304              36.04
3-305              36.05
3-306              36.06
3-307              36.07
3-308              36.08
3-309              36.09
3-310              36.10
3-311              36.11
3-312              36.12
3-313              36.13
3-314              36.14
3-315              36.15
3-401              36.30
3-402              36.31
3-403              36.32
3-501              50.01
3-502              50.02
3-503              50.03
3-601              50.99,
                   53.99
4-101              92.01
4-102              92.02
4-103              92.03
4-104              92.04
4-201              51.01
4-202              51.01
4-203              51.01
4-204              51.02
4-205              51.03
4-206              51.04
4-301              92.25
4-302              92.26
4-303              92.27
4-304              92.28
4-305              92.29
4-401              54.01
4-402              54.02
4-403              54.03
4-404              54.04
4-405              54.05
4-406              54.06
4-407              54.07
4-408              54.08
4-409              54.09
4-410              54.99
4-411              54.10
4-501              54.99,
                   92.99
4-502              54.11,
                   92.30
5-101              70.01
5-102              70.02
5-103              70.03
5-104              70.04
5-105              70.05
5-106              70.06
5-107              70.07
5-108              70.08
5-201              70.20
5-202              70.21
5-203              70.22
5-204              70.23
5-205              70.24
5-207              70.25
5-208              70.26
5-209              70.27
5-210              70.28
5-211              70.29
5-212              70.30
5-213              70.31
5-214              70.32
5-215              70.33
5-216              70.34
5-217              70.35
5-218              70.36
5-219              70.37
5-220              70.38
5-221              70.39
5-222              70.40
5-223              70.41
5-224              70.42
5-225              70.43
5-226              70.44
5-227              70.45
5-228              70.46
5-229              70.47
5-230              70.48
5-231              70.99
5-232              70.49
5-301              71.01
5-302              71.02
5-303              71.03
5-401              71.15
5-402              71.16
5-403              71.17
5-404              71.99
5-501              72.01
5-502              72.02
5-503              72.03
5-504              72.04
5-505              72.05
5-506              72.06
5-507              72.07
5-508              72.08
5-509              72.09
5-510              72.10
5-511              72.11
5-601              73.01
5-602              73.02
5-603              73.03
5-604              73.04
5-605              73.05
5-606              73.06
5-607              73.07
5-608              73.08
5-609              73.09
                   70.99,
5-701              72.99,
                   73.99
6-101              90.20
6-102              90.21
6-103              90.22
6-104              90.23
6-105              90.24
6-106              90.25
6-107              90.26
6-108              90.27
6-109              90.28
6-110              90.29
6-111              90.30
6-112              90.31
6-113              90.32
6-114              90.33
6-115              90.34
6-116              90.35
6-117              90.36
6-118              90.37
6-119              90.38
6-120              90.50
6-121              90.51
6-122              90.52
6-123              90.53
6-124              90.54
6-201              90.01
6-202              90.02
6-203              90.03
6-204              90.04
6-205              90.05
6-301              130.01
6-302              130.02
6-303              130.03
6-304              130.04
6-305              130.05
6-306              130.06
6-307              130.07,
                   130.99
6-308              130.08,
                   130.99
6-309              130.09
6-310              130.10
6-311              130.11
6-312              130.12,
                   130.99
6-313              130.13
6-314              130.14
6-315              130.15
6-316              130.16
6-317              130.17
6-318              130.18
6-319              130.19
6-320              130.20
6-321              130.21
6-322              130.22
6-323              130.23
6-324              130.24
6-325              130.25,
                   130.99
6-326              130.26
6-327              130.27
6-328              130.28
6-401              130.99,
                   132.99
6-402              130.29
7-101              91.01
7-102              91.02
7-103              91.03
7-104              91.04
7-105              91.05
7-106              91.06
7-107              91.07
7-108              91.08
7-109              91.09
7-110              91.10
8-101              93.01
8-102              93.02
8-103              93.03
8-104              93.04
8-105              93.05
8-106              93.06
8-107              93.07
8-108              93.08
8-201              93.20
8-202              93.21
8-204              93.22
8-205              93.23
8-206              93.24
8-207              93.25
8-208              93.26
8-301              93.40
8-302              93.41
8-303              93.42
8-304              93.43
8-305              93.44
8-306              93.45
8-307              93.46
8-308              93.47
8-309              93.48
8-310              93.49
8-311              93.50
8-312              93.51
8-313              93.52
8-314              93.53
8-315              93.54
8-316              93.55
8-317              93.56
8-318              93.57
8-401              93.58
8-501              93.99
9-101              150.01
9-102              150.02
9-103              150.03
9-104              150.04
9-105              150.05
9-201              150.20
9-202              150.21
9-203              150.22
9-204              150.23
9-205              150.24
9-206              150.25
10-101             110.01
10-102             110.02
10-103             110.03
10-104             110.04
10-105             110.05
10-106             110.06
10-107             110.07
10-108             110.08
10-109             110.09
10-110             110.10
10-111             110.11
10-112             110.12
10-113             110.13
10-114             110.14
10-115             110.15
10-116             110.16
10-117             110.17
10-118             110.18
10-119             110.19
10-120             110.20
10-121             110.21
10-122             110.22
10-123             110.23
10-124             110.24
10-125             110.25
10-126             110.26
10-201             111.01
10-202             111.02
10-301             112.01
10-302             112.02
10-303             112.03
10-304             112.04
10-305             112.05
10-306             112.06
10-307             112.07
10-308             112.08
10-309             112.09
10-310             112.10
10-311             112.11
10-312             112.12
10-401             TSO, Table II
10-402             TSO, Table II
10-501             113.01
10-502             113.02
10-503             113.03
10-504             113.04
10-505             113.05
10-506             113.06
10-507             113.07
10-508             113.08
10-509             113.09
10-510             113.10
10-511             113.11
10-512             113.12
10-513             113.13
10-514             113.14
10-701             33.30
                   110.99,
10-801             111.99,
                   112.99,
                   113.99
11-101             154.01
11-102             154.02
11-103             154.03
11-201             153.01
11-202             153.02
11-203             153.03
11-301             152.01
                   152.99,
11-401             153.99,
                   154.99
                   152.02,
11-402             153.04,
                   154.04
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
91-1     4-2-1991    130.27
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
108      12-4-1984   30.004
109      12-4-1984   93.55
111      12-4-1984   33.10
112      12-4-1984   30.016
113      12-4-1984   53.10
                     32.06,
114      12-4-1984   32.08,
                     32.17
115      12-4-1984   72.11
121      9-3-1985    90.37,
                     90.38
122      11-5-1985   30.063
123      11-5-1985   30.069
124      11-5-1985   32.24
125      11-5-1985   36.03
126      11-5-1985   92.29
127      11-5-1985   70.48,
                     70.99
123      11-15-1985  30.070
129      12-3-1985   30.088
130      6-3-1986    110.25
132      10-7-1986   36.31
133      10-7-1986   93.56
134      10-7-1986   93.57
135      10-7-1986   31.07
141      11-3-1987   33.30
145      2-7-1989    154.02
147      11-7-1989   90.01,
                     90.05
149      6-5-1990    113.01
152      10-2-1990   153.02,
                     154.03
154      7-2-1991    70.23
155      8-6-1991    93.40
161      2-2-1993    70.23
165      4-6-1993    33.18
166      4-6-1993    70.49
167      4-6-1993    90.50 through
                     90.54
168      4-6-1993    110.07
169      4-6-1993    110.25
170      4-6-1993    110.26
171      4-6-1993    110.15
172      4-6-1993    130.04
173      4-6-1993    30.018
174      4-6-1993    30.056
175      4-6-1993    30.058
176      4-6-1993    34.12
186      1-9-1996    30.001
187      1-9-1996    30.002
188      1-9-1996    30.067
189      1-9-1996    30.068
190      1-9-1996    32.01
191      1-9-1996    32.23
192      1-9-1996    33.01
193      1-9-1996    33.02
194      1-9-1996    33.04
195      1-9-1996    33.06
196      1-9-1996    50.03
197      1-9-1996    36.32
198      1-9-1996    70.01
199      1-9-1996    70.08
200      1-9-1996    70.36
201      1-9-1996    73.01
202      1-9-1996    73.04
203      1-9-1996    73.06
204      1-9-1996    130.28
205      1-9-1996    93.03
206      1-9-1996    93.08
208      1-9-1996    110.21
209      1-9-1996    153.03
207      11-9-1996   93.51
243      2-1-2005    TSO, Table III
245      5-2-2006    92.05 through
                     92.13
                     30.019,
                     71.01,
247      9-5-2006    93.22,
                     93.41,
                     130.06
248      10-3-2006   131.01,
                     131.99
250      8-5-2008    152.01,
                     154.01
257      9-14-2010   154.01
258      9-14-2010   154.01
259      9-14-2010   33.31
                     52.01 through
                     52.26,
260      2-8-2011    52.40 through
                     52.49,
                     52.99
261      2-8-2011    52.27
263      10-3-2012   TSO, Table IV
265      10-2-2012   TSO, Table I
266      5-7-2013    TSO, Table I
267      5-7-2013    TSO, Table I
268      5-7-2013    TSO, Table I
269      5-7-2013    TSO, Table I
270      5-7-2013    TSO, Table I
271      5-7-2013    TSO, Table I
272      5-7-2013    TSO, Table I
273      6-4-2013    90.20
275      5-9-2014    TSO, Table IV
277      11-4-2014   91.25 through
                     91.30
279      1-5-2016    154.01
                     132.01 through
280      1-5-2016    132.05,
                     132.99
281      4-5-2016    154.01
282      5-3-2016    TSO, Table II
                     150.40 through
283      8-2-2016    150.53,
                     150.65
                     150.65,
285      9-6-2016    151.01 through
                     151.16,
                     151.99
                     150.65,
286      12-6-2016   151.01,
                     151.08
288      1-3-2017    TSO, Table II
289      8-1-2017    154.01
291      10-3-2017   TSO, Table III
                     91.45 through
292      11-7-2017   91.51,
                     91.99
294      11-6-2018   70.40
295      7-2-2019    TSO, Table I
                    
 
 
