CITY OF ARAPAHOE, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-21-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the city code of
Arapahoe, Nebraska and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Arapahoe,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the City of
Arapahoe.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Furnas County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public
use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(Neb. RS 18-132)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the city, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(1997 Code, §       ).” The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   MEETINGS AND ORDINANCES
      
32.   ELECTED OFFICIALS
      
33.   APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
34.   COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
      
35.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   ELECTIONS
      
37.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Bonds and Oath
   
30.01   Bonds; form
   
30.02   Oath of office; municipal officials
Corporate Seal
   
30.15   Seal; official corporate
Compensation
   
30.30   Compensation of municipal officials
   
30.31   Conflict of interest
 
   
30.99   Penalty
BONDS AND OATH
§ 30.01 BONDS; FORM.
   Official bonds of the municipality shall be in form, joint and several, and
shall be made payable to the municipality in such penalty as the governing body
may set by resolution; provided, the penalty amount on any bond shall not fall
below the legal minimum, when one has been set by the State of Nebraska, for
each particular official. All official bonds of the municipal officials shall
be executed by the principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient
sureties who shall be freeholders of the county, or by the official as
principal and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company; provided no
municipal official, while still in his or her official term of office, shall be
accepted as surety on any other official’s bond, contractor’s bond, license
bond or appeal bond under any circumstances. Only companies that are legally
authorized to transact business in the State of Nebraska shall be eligible for
suretyship on the bond of an official of the municipality. All said bonds shall
obligate the principal, and sureties for the faithful discharge of all duties
required by law of such principal, and shall inure to the benefit of the
municipality and any persons who may be injured by a breach of the conditions
of such bonds. No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the
approval of the governing body, and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
said instrument by the Mayor and Municipal Clerk-Treasurer pursuant to the said
approval of the governing body. The premium on any official bond required to be
given may be paid out of the General Fund, or other proper municipal fund, upon
a resolution to that effect by the governing body at the beginning of any
municipal year. All official bonds, meeting the conditions herein, shall be
filed with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for his or her official records, and
it shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to furnish a certified
copy of any bond so filed upon the payment of a fee which shall be set by
resolution of the governing body. In the event that the sureties on the
official bond of any officer of the municipality, in the opinion of the
governing body, become insufficient, the governing body may, by resolution, fix
a reasonable time within which the said officer may give a new bond or
additional sureties as directed. In the event that the officer should fail,
refuse or neglect to give a new bond, or additional sureties to the
satisfaction, and approval of the governing body then the office shall, by such
failure, refusal or neglect, become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the
governing body to appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the said
office. Any official who is re-elected to office shall be required to file a
new bond after each election.
(1997 Code, § 1-301)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 11-103 through 11-118, 17-604
§ 30.02 OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   All officials of the municipality, whether elected or appointed, except when
a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      “I _____________________________ do solemnly swear that I will support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, and without
mental reservation, or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of _____________________,
according to law, and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate, nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force, or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I
will not advocate, nor become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this
state by force or violence. So help me God.”
(1997 Code, § 1-302)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 11-101
CORPORATE SEAL
§ 30.15 SEAL; OFFICIAL CORPORATE.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk- Treasurer, and shall bear the following inscription,
“City of Arapahoe, Nebraska, Seal.” The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall affix
an impression of the said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits,
ordinances and all other official papers issued by order of the governing body
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
(1997 Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
COMPENSATION
§ 30.30 COMPENSATION OF MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been
elected except when there has been a combination and merger of offices; except
that when there are officers elected to the Council, and the terms of one or
more members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all
members of the Council, board or commission may be increased or diminished at
the beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to hold the same during the
time for which he was elected if during the same time the emoluments thereof
were increased. The Mayor shall receive a salary of $100 per regular meeting
attended and $50 per special meeting attended. Each member of the City Council
shall receive a salary of $100 per regular meeting attended and $50 per special
meeting attended. Compensation shall be paid by the City Clerk on a monthly
basis.
(1997 Code, § 1-901) (Ord. 2013-03, passed 6-4-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, 17-209.02, 17-612
§ 30.31 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this section OFFICER shall mean:
         (a)   Any member of any board or commission of the municipality;
         (b)   Any appointed official if such municipal official:
            1.   Serves on a board or commission which spends and administers
its own funds; and
            2.   Is dealing with a contract made by such board or commission.
         (c)   Any elected municipal official.
      (2)   Unless specified otherwise, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers for purposes of this section, with
respect to their duties as firefighters and ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   No officer of the municipality shall be permitted to benefit
from any contract to which the municipality is a party. The existence of such
an interest in any contract renders the contract voidable by decree of a court
of competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or
took assignment thereof with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the municipality or by any resident thereof and must be brought within one year
after the contract is signed or assigned. Any such decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the municipality has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this section shall apply only when the officer
or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business with which the individual is associated or
business association, which shall mean a business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, director or officer;
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of a closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than 5% equity interest; or
            3.   Is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract; provided however, if such officer is an employee of the business
involved in the contract and has no ownership interest or will not receive a
pecuniary fee such officer shall not be deemed to have an interest within the
meaning of this section.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply if the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governmental body
responsible for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his
or her interest, prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matter of granting the contract, except that
if the number of members of the Board declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the Board, with all members present, from securing a quorum on
the issue, then all members may vote on the matter; and
      (3)   Does not act for the municipality as to inspection or performance
under the contract in which he or she has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any municipality by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract under the provisions of this
section. The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section. Notwithstanding the provisions of division (C) above, if an officer’s
parent, spouse or child is an employee of the municipality, the officer may
vote on all issues of the contract which are generally applicable to all
employees or all employees within a classification and do not single out his or
her parent, spouse or child for special action. If an officer has the power to
employ personnel and he or she hires his or her parent, spouse or child, such
officer shall disclose the hiring pursuant to division (E) below, except that
if the parent, spouse or child is already employed in the position at the time
the officer takes office and such position does not change, no disclosure need
be made. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any contract
entered into with an interested officer shall be subject to applicable
competitive bidding requirements and shall be fair and reasonable to the
municipality.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain, separately from other
records, a ledger containing the information listed in divisions (E)(1) through
(E)(5) below about every contract entered into by the municipality in which an
officer has an interest as specified above for which disclosure is made as
provided in division (C) above. Such information shall be kept in the ledger
for five years from the date of the officer’s last day in office and shall
include the:
      (1)   Names of the contracting parties;
      (2)   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
      (3)   Date that the contract was approved by the municipality involved;
      (4)   Amount of the contract; and
      (5)   Basic terms of the contract.
   (F)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided to
the Clerk-Treasurer not later than ten days after the contract has been signed
by both parties. The ledger kept by the Clerk- Treasurer shall be available for
public inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is
kept.
   (G)   An open account established for the benefit of any municipality or
entity thereof, with a business in which an officer has an interest, shall be
deemed a contract subject to the provisions of this section. The statement
required to be filed pursuant to this section shall be filed within ten days
after such account is opened. Thereafter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a
running account of all amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made
from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to the provisions of
this section.
   (H)   The municipality may enact ordinances exempting from the provisions of
this section, contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of such
municipality may have an interest.
   (I)   No officer, including volunteer firefighters and ambulance drivers,
shall receive any pay or perquisites from the municipality other than his or
her salary. The governing body shall not pay or appropriate any money or other
valuable thing to pay a person who is not an officer for the performance of any
act, service or duty, which shall come within the proper scope of the duties of
any officer of the municipality.
(1997 Code, § 1-902) Penalty, see §
30.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-611, 18-305 through 18-312,
49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.03, 70-624.04
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 31: MEETINGS AND ORDINANCES
Section
Meetings
   
31.01   Meetings; defined
   
31.02   Public body; defined
   
31.03   Public meetings
   
31.04   Closed sessions
   
31.05   Emergency meetings
   
31.06   Minutes
   
31.07   Votes
   
31.08   Notice to news media
   
31.09   Public participation
   
31.10   Order of business
   
31.11   Change in office
   
31.12   Organizational
   
31.13   Regular meeting
   
31.14   Special meetings
   
31.15   Videoconferencing, when allowed
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
31.30   Grant of power
   
31.31   Introduction
   
31.32   Resolutions and motions; procedure
   
31.33   Style
   
31.34   Title
   
31.35   Ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws; reading; passage
   
31.36   Publication or posting
   
31.37   Certificate of publication or posting
   
31.38   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
31.39   Amendments and revisions
 
   
31.99   Penalty
MEETINGS
§ 31.01 MEETINGS; DEFINED.
   MEETINGS as used in this subchapter shall mean all regular, special or
called meetings, formal or informal, of a public body for the purposes of
briefing, discussion of public business, formation of tentative policy or the
taking of any action.
(1997 Code, § 1-501)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409(2)
§ 31.02 PUBLIC BODY; DEFINED.
   (A)   PUBLIC BODY as used in this subchapter shall mean:
      (1)   The City Council of the municipality;
      (2)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, councils,
subunits or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by Constitution,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
      (3)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless
a quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless such
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(1997 Code, § 1-502)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409(1)
§ 31.03 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   All public meetings as defined by law shall be held in a municipal
public building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings
shall be held in the public building in which the governing body usually holds
such meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate
some other public building or other specified place. The advance publicized
notice of all public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to
all members of the governing body and to the public by a method designated by
the governing body or by the Mayor if the governing body has not designated a
method. Such notice shall contain the time and specific place for each meeting
and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time of the
notice, or a statement that such an agenda kept continually current shall be
readily available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be
altered later than:
      (1)   Twenty-four hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting;
or
      (2)   Forty-eight hours before the scheduled commencement of a meeting of
the governing body scheduled outside the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (C)   The governing body shall have the right to modify the agenda to
include items of an emergency nature only at such public meetings. The minutes
of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall include the record of the manner and
advance time by which the advance publicized notice was given, a statement of
how the availability of an agenda of the then known subjects was communicated,
the time and specific place of the meetings, and the names of each member of
the governing body present or absent at each convened meeting. The minutes of
the governing body shall be a public record open to inspection by the public
upon request at any reasonable time at the office of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer. Any official action on any question or motion duly moved and
seconded shall be taken only by roll call vote of the governing body in open
session. The record of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall show how each member
voted, or that the member was absent and did not vote.
(1997 Code, § 1-503)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411, 84-
1413
§ 31.04 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such
reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session, and the time when the closed session commenced and
concluded shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding such a
closed session shall restrict its consideration to matters during the closed
portions to only those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the
closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any
formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL ACTION shall
mean a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a
decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or ordinance or
formation of a position or policy but shall not include negotiating guidance
given by members of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in
closed sessions authorized under division (A)(2)(a) above.
   (C)   (1)   Any member of the public body shall have the right to challenge
the continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session
has exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session
or if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
         (a)   The protection of the public interest; or
         (b)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual.
      (2)   Such challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the
members of the public body. Such challenge and its disposition shall be
recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a
subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this subchapter. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to chance meetings,
or to attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a
public body at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally
convened and there is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over
which the public body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(1997 Code, § 1-504)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1410
§ 31.05 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
31.08 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(1997 Code, § 1-505)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 31.06 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days, or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier.
(1997 Code, § 1-506)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412, 84-1413
§ 31.07 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by the
municipality utilizing an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the governing body to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(1997 Code, § 1-507)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-616, 84-1413
§ 31.08 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, Secretary or other designee of each public
body shall maintain a list of the news media requesting notification of
meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to provide advance notification to
them of the time and place of each meeting, and the subjects to be discussed at
that meeting.
(1997 Code, § 1-508)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 31.09 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the public shall have
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies and all
or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed meetings called
pursuant to §
31.04, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for any public body to
make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation
at all meetings. No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting. The body may require
any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify himself or
herself. No public body shall for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this subchapter hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too small
to accommodate the anticipated audience. No public body shall be deemed in
violation of this section if it holds its meeting in its traditional meeting
place which is located in this state. An agency which contracts with
municipalities outside the State of Nebraska may hold meetings of any committee
outside the State of Nebraska if such meetings are held only in such
contracting municipalities. Final action on any agenda item shall only be taken
by the agency at a meeting in the State of Nebraska, which meeting shall comply
with Neb. RS 84-1408 to 84-1414. The public body shall, upon request, make a
reasonable effort to accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and
testimony presented at the meeting. Public bodies shall make available at the
meeting, for examination and copying by members of the public, at least one
copy of all reproducible written material to be discussed at an open meeting.
(1997 Code, § 1-509)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412, 18-2438
§ 31.10 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   All meetings of the governing body shall be open to the public. Promptly at
the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the
governing body, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, the Mayor and such other
municipal officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in
the meeting place, and the business of the municipality shall be taken up for
consideration, and disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda
on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
(1997 Code, § 1-510)
§ 31.11 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be made as follows. The Mayor and Council shall
meet on the first regular meeting date in December of each year in which a
municipal election is held and the outgoing officers and the outgoing members
of the Council shall present their reports, and upon the old Council having
completed its business up to the said time, the outgoing members of the Council
shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the outgoing
officers shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all
property, records, papers and moneys, belonging to the same.
(1997 Code, § 1-511)
§ 31.12 ORGANIZATIONAL.
   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting in
the city on the first regular meeting in December of each year in which a
municipal election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns and
proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for the
new municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then
proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other elective officers
of the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected, and to see
that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required. After ascertaining
that all members are duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its
own body who shall be styled as “President of the Council.” The Mayor shall
then nominate his or her candidates for appointive offices. He or she shall
then proceed with the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of
each and every member of the Council, or his or her successor in office, and of
each officer elected to any office, to qualify prior to the first regular
meeting in December following his or her election. All appointive officers
shall qualify within two weeks following their appointments. Qualification for
each officer who is not required to give bond shall consist in his or her
subscribing and taking an oath to support the Constitution of the United
States, the Constitution of the State of Nebraska, the laws of the municipality
and to perform faithfully and impartially the duties of his or her office, said
oath to be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. Each officer
who is required to give a bond shall file the required bond in the office of
the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer with sufficient sureties, conditioned on the
faithful discharge of the duties of his or her office, with the oath endorsed
thereon.
(1997 Code, § 1-512)
§ 31.13 REGULAR MEETING.
   (A)   The meetings of the governing body shall be held at the Ella Missing
Community Center. Regular meetings shall be held on the first and third Tuesday
of each month at the hour of 7:30 p.m.
   (B)   A majority of all members elected to the Council shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of any business, but a fewer number may adjourn from
time to time and compel the attendance of absent members. Unless a greater vote
is required by law, an affirmative vote of at least one-half of the elected
members shall be required for the transaction of any business.
(1997 Code, § 1-513)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-105
§ 31.14 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or by three members of
the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in
writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. On filing the call
for a special meeting, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the Council
members of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a
special meeting need not be given to a Council member known to be out of the
state, or physically unable to be present. A majority of the members of the
City Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of the
absent members. Whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be
sent for and compelled to attend.
   (B)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
shall proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is
present. If a quorum is present, the City Council shall be called to order by
the Mayor, if present, or if absent, by the President of the Council. In the
absence of both the Mayor and the President of the Council, the City Council
members shall elect a President pro tempore. All ordinances passed at any
special meeting shall comply with procedures set forth in §§
31.30 through
31.39.
(1997 Code, § 1-514)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-106
§ 31.15 VIDEOCONFERENCING, WHEN ALLOWED.
   (A)   (1)   A meeting of an organization created under the Interlocal
Cooperation Act or the Municipal Cooperative Financing Act or of the governing
body of a risk management pool or advisory committee organized in accordance
with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act may be held by means of
videoconferencing if:
         (a)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given;
         (b)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s
right to attend, hear and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation
by audio or visual recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input
such as public comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be
provided if videoconferencing was not used;
         (c)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available
to the public at each site of the videoconference;
         (d)   At least one member of the governing body or advisory committee
is present at each site of the videoconference; and
         (e)   No more than one-half of the governing body’s or advisory
committee’s meetings in a calendar year are held by videoconference.
      (2)   Videoconferencing shall not be used to circumvent any of the public
government purposes established in this subchapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, VIDEOCONFERENCING shall mean conducting
a meeting involving participants at two or more locations through the use of
audio-video equipment which allows participants at each location to hear and
see each meeting participant at each other location, including public input.
Interaction between meeting participants shall be possible at all meeting
locations.
(1997 Code, § 1-515)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409, 84-1411
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 31.30 GRANT OF POWER.
   The governing body may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Nebraska, as may be
expedient for maintaining the peace, good government and welfare of the
municipality and its trade, commerce and manufactories.
(1997 Code, § 1-601)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 31.31 INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the governing body in one of
the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the governing body, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk- Treasurer who, in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the governing body, shall read aloud the
substance of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
(1997 Code, § 1-602)
§ 31.32 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS; PROCEDURE.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the governing body. The issue raised by the resolution
or motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary
law adopted for the guidance of the governing body. A majority vote shall be
required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion
shall be by roll call vote.
(1997 Code, § 1-603)
§ 31.33 STYLE.
   The style of all municipal ordinances shall be:
   “Be it ordained by the Mayor and Council of the City of Arapahoe, Nebraska.”
(1997 Code, § 1-604)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 31.34 TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in the
title.
(1997 Code, § 1-605)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 31.35 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS; READING; PASSAGE.
   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three
different days unless three-fourths of the governing body vote to suspend this
requirement, except that such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case such requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. Three-fourths of the governing body may require a reading of any
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section. All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the governing body. On the passage or
adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every resolution or order to enter
into a contract by the governing body, the yeas and nays shall be called and
recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or any such resolution or
order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of members elected to
the governing body shall be required. All appointments of the officers by the
governing body shall be made viva voce; and the concurrence of a like majority
shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they voted, on the vote
resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The requirements of a roll call
or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a municipality which utilizes an
electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of each member of the
governing body to be readily seen by the public.
(1997 Code, § 1-606)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614, 17-616
§ 31.36 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In some newspaper published in the municipality or, if no paper is
published in the municipality, then by posting a written or printed copy in
each of three public places in the municipality; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form.
(1997 Code, § 1-607)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 31.37 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the municipality from
the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer showing that the ordinance was passed and
approved, and when and in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and
by whom and where the ordinance was posted.
(1997 Code, § 1-608)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613, 17-615
§ 31.38 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, an ordinance for the
government of the municipality which has been adopted by the governing body
without submission to the voters of the municipality shall not go into effect
until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the municipality. Such emergency ordinance shall recite the
emergency, be passed by a three-fourths vote of the governing body, and be
entered of record on the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s minutes.
(1997 Code, § 1-609)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613, 19-3701
§ 31.39 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   Except for modifications to zoning or building districts adopted in
accordance with Neb. RS 19-915, no ordinance or section thereof shall be
revised or amended unless the new ordinance contains the entire ordinance or
section as revised or amended and the ordinance or section so amended is
repealed.
(1997 Code, § 1-610)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 32: ELECTED OFFICIALS
Section
Elected Officials
   
32.01   Elected officials; vacancy
Mayor
   
32.15   City Mayor; selection and duties
   
32.16   Vacancy
City Council
   
32.30   Acting President
   
32.31   Selection and duties
   
32.32   Organization
 
   
32.99   Penalty
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 32.01 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
   (A)   (1)   Vacancies in city elected offices shall be filled by the Mayor
and City Council for the balance of the unexpired term except as provided in
this section. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting from the death of
the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the City Council at a
regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the minutes of such
meeting.
      (2)   The City Council shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by
causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city
or by posting in three public places in the city the office vacated and the
length of the unexpired term.
      (3)   The Mayor shall within four weeks after the regular meeting at
which such notice has been presented, or upon the death of the incumbent, call
a special meeting of the City Council or place the issue of filling such
vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting at which time the Mayor shall
submit the name of a qualified elector to fill the vacancy for the balance of
the unexpired term.
      (4)   No officer who is removed at a recall election or resigns after the
initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
City Council during the remainder of his or her term of office.
      (5)   Upon a majority vote of approval by the City Council the vacancy
shall be filled. If a majority vote is not reached the nomination shall be
rejected and the Mayor shall at the next regular meeting submit the name of
another qualified elector. If the vote on the nominee fails to carry by
majority vote, the Mayor shall continue at such meeting to submit the names of
qualified electors and the City Council shall continue to vote upon such
nominations until the vacancy is filled.
      (6)   The Mayor shall cast his or her vote only in case of a tie vote of
the City Council.
      (7)   All City Council members shall cast a ballot for or against each
nominee.
      (8)   Any member of the City Council who has been appointed to fill a
vacancy on the City Council shall have the same rights, including voting, as if
such person was elected.
      (9)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
office as provided above in this section, call a special municipal election to
fill such vacancy.
      (10)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority of the members
of the City Council, there shall be a special municipal election conducted by
the Secretary of State to fill such vacancies.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever any vacancy shall occur in any appointive or elective
office of the city or in the membership of the Council of this city, except
Mayor or Chairperson of the Board, by death, resignation, impeachment, absence
from the city or from the failure to attend three or more consecutive regular
meetings of the City Council, the Mayor shall, with the concurrence of a
majority of the number of members required to be elected to the Council, fill
such vacancy. Such appointee shall fill the unexpired term of the office.
      (2)   If any member of the City Council fails to attend three or more
consecutive regular meetings of the City Council, the City Council by a
majority vote, may declare the office vacant and the Mayor and Council may
proceed at the next regular meeting to make an appointment to fill such
vacancy. The Council member whose position is declared vacant, shall be
notified of the action of the Council in declaring such office vacant by the
mailing to him or her by the City Clerk-Treasurer of a copy of the action taken
by the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 1-105) (Ord. 1986-2, passed 5-20-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-568, 32-569
MAYOR
§ 32.15 CITY MAYOR; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor of the municipality shall have the general and immediate control
over all property, and officials, whether elected, or appointed, of the
municipality. He or she shall preside at all meetings of the City Council, and
may vote when his or her vote shall be decisive and the Council is equally
divided on any pending matter, legislation or transaction and the Mayor shall,
for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the Council. His or
her signature must appear on the Municipal Clerk- Treasurer’s minutes of all
meetings, and he or she must sign all resolutions which have been passed, and
warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the City Council; provided,
any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over his or her veto by a two-
thirds vote by the members of the City Council, but if the Mayor neglects or
refuses to sign any ordinance, and returns it to the Council with his or her
objections in writing at the next regular Council meeting, the same shall
become a law without his or her signature. He or she shall from time to time
communicate to the Council such information and recommendations as, in his or
her opinion, may improve the municipality. He or she may require at reasonable
intervals any municipal official to exhibit his or her accounts and make
reports to the Council on any subject pertaining to his or her office. He or
she shall have the power to remit fines or pardon any offense arising under the
ordinances of the municipality. He or she may remove at any time an appointed
police officer of the municipality. His or her territorial authority shall
extend over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
municipality for the enforcement of any health ordinance, and one-half mile in
all matters vested in him or her except taxation. He or she shall also have
such other duties as the City Council may by resolution confer upon him or her,
or in any other matters which the laws of the State of Nebraska repose in him
or her. He or she shall be elected at the municipal election, and shall serve a
four-year term of office.
(1997 Code, § 1-101)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-110 through 17-117
§ 32.16 VACANCY.
   (A)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, or in case of his or
her disability or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the
office of Mayor for the unexpired term until such vacancy is filled or such
disability is removed, or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor
returns.
   (B)   When the successful candidate for Mayor shall be prevented from
assuming office, the incumbent Mayor shall not be entitled to hold over the
term, but such office shall automatically become vacant and the President of
the Council shall exercise the office of Mayor until such vacancy is filled.
   (C)   If the President of the Council shall for any cause assume the office
of Mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on
the Council which shall be filled as provided in §
32.15.
(1997 Code, § 1-106)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107
CITY COUNCIL
§ 32.30 ACTING PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor and
the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one of its own body
to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of
the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council, and upon the municipality as if done
by the elected Mayor.
(1997 Code, § 1-102)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-148
§ 32.31 SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-year
term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the municipal
government, and shall perform such duties, and have such powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety, and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions.
(1997 Code, § 1-103)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-103, 17-104, 32-533
§ 32.32 ORGANIZATION.
   City Council members of this municipality shall take office, and commence
their duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election.
The newly elected Council members who have qualified as prescribed by law,
together with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a
regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the said meeting has been called to order, the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer shall report to the City Council the names of all City Council
members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices, and this report
shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. Each
ward of the municipality shall be represented by at least three Council
members. No person shall be eligible who is not at the time of his or her
election an actual resident of the ward for which he or she is qualified and
should any City Council member move from the ward from which he or she was
elected, his or her office shall thereby become vacant.
(1997 Code, § 1-104)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-104
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 33: APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Section
Appointed Officials
   
33.01   Appointment; removal
   
33.02   Merger of offices
   
33.03   Clerk-Treasurer position created
   
33.04   Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
   
33.05   Municipal Attorney
   
33.06   Municipal physician
   
33.07   County Sheriff as law enforcement officer
   
33.08   Municipal Fire Chief
   
33.09   Special Engineer
   
33.10   Municipal Utilities Superintendent
   
33.11   Municipal Electrical Inspector
   
33.12   Civil Defense Director
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
   
33.25   Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
   
33.26   Clerk-Treasurer’s monthly report
   
33.27   Clerk-Treasurer’s annual report
 
   
33.99   Penalty
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 33.01 APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. The
Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint such a number
of regular police officers as may be necessary. The City Council may establish
and provide for the appointment of members of a law enforcement reserve force
as provided by law.
   (B)   All police officers and other appointed officials may be removed at
any time by the Mayor, except that if the municipality has a Municipal Water
Commissioner, he or she may at any time, for sufficient cause, be removed from
office by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 1-201)
Cross-reference:
   Appointed officials; vacancy, see §
32.01
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-541, 81-1438
§ 33.02 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The governing body may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member, with any
other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such
offices or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or
employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time. The
City Manager in a city under the City Manager plan of government as provided by
law may in his or her discretion combine and merge any elective or appointive
office or employment or any combination of duties of any such offices or
employments, except Mayor and Council member, with any other elective or
appointive office or employment so that one or more of such offices or
employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time. The
offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only. The salary or compensation of the
officer or employee holding the merged or combined offices or employments or
offices and employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided
by law for the salary or compensation of the office, offices, employment or
employments so merged and combined. For purposes of this section, volunteer
firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers.
(1997 Code, § 1-202)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
§ 33.03 CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the governing
body by §
33.02.
(1997 Code, § 1-203)
§ 33.04 MUNICIPAL CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall attend the meetings of the
governing body, and keep a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He
or she shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the municipality
and when any bonds are sold, purchased, paid or canceled, said record shall
show the fact. He or she shall make, at the end of the fiscal year, a report of
the business of the municipality transacted through his or her office for the
year. That record shall describe particularly the bonds issued, and sold during
the year, and the terms of the sale with each and every item, and expense
thereof. He or she shall file all official bonds after the same shall have been
properly executed, and approved. He or she shall make the proper certificate of
passage which shall be attached to original copies of all bond ordinances
hereafter enacted by the governing body.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall issue, and sign all licenses,
permits and occupation tax receipts authorized by law, and required by the
municipal ordinances. He or she shall collect all occupation taxes, and license
money except where some other municipal officer is specifically charged with
that duty. He or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the
municipality, and the purpose for which they have been issued.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall permit no records, public papers
or other documents of the municipality kept, and preserved in his or her office
to be taken therefrom, except by such officers of the municipality as may be
entitled to the use of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt
therefor. He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the governing body shall order public work to be done at the
expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all
resolutions, and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the
date, and hour of filing upon every paper, or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto
and other documents incorporated by reference, and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign and attest all
warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the
same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report
of the amounts appropriated to the various funds, and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any
citizen, official or other person from examining any public records at all
reasonable times.
   (D)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall deliver all warrants, ordinances
and resolutions under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature.
He or she shall also deliver to officers, employees and committees all
resolutions, and communications which are directed at said officers, employees
or committees. With the seal of the municipality, he or she shall duly attest
the Mayor’s signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be
attested to when ordered to do so by the governing body. Within 30 days after
any meeting of the governing body, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare,
and publish the official proceedings of the governing body in a legal newspaper
of general circulation in the municipality, and which was duly designated as
such by the governing body. Said publication shall set forth a statement of the
proceedings thereof and shall also include the amount of each claim allowed,
the purpose of the claim, and the name of the claimant, except that the
aggregate amount of all payroll claims may be included as one item. Between
July 15 and August 15 of each year, the employee job titles and the current
annual, monthly or hourly salaries corresponding to such job titles shall be
published. Each job title published shall be descriptive and indicative of the
duties and functions of the position. The charge for such publication shall not
exceed the rates provided by the statutes of the State of Nebraska. Said
publication shall be charged against the General Fund. He or she shall then
keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all notices required to be
published, or posted by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer by order of the governing
body, or under the ordinances of the municipality. To each of the file copies
of said notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if
the said notices are required to be published, or the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer’s certificate under seal where the same are required to be posted
only.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall receive all objections to creation
of paving districts, and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the
claims of any person against the municipality, and in the event that the said
claim is disallowed in part, or in whole, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall
notify such claimant, his or her agent, or attorney by letter within five days
after such disallowance, and the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall then prepare
transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer may charge a reasonable fee for
certified copies of any record in his or her office as set by resolution of the
governing body. He or she shall destroy municipal records under the direction
of the State Records Board pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1220;
provided, the governing body shall not have the authority to destroy the
minutes of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, the permanent ordinances, and
resolution books, or any other records classified as permanent by the State
Records Board.
(1997 Code, § 1-204)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-605, 19-1102, 19-1104, 84-
1201 through 84-1220, 84-712
§ 33.05 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney is the municipality’s legal advisor, and as such he
or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits on behalf of the
municipality. When requested by the governing body, he or she shall attend
meetings of the governing body, and shall advise any municipal official in all
matters of law in which the interests of the municipality may be involved. He
or she shall draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts and other writings as may
be required in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or she
shall examine all bonds, contracts and documents on which the governing body
will be required to act, and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all
such instruments, and documents as to whether, or not, the document is in
legal, and proper form. He or she shall prepare complaints, attend and
prosecute violations of the municipal ordinances when directed to do so by the
governing body. Without direction, he or she shall appear, and prosecute all
cases for violation of the municipal ordinances that have been appealed to, and
are pending in any higher court. He or she shall also examine, when requested
to do so by the governing body, the ordinance records, and advise, and assist
the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer as much as may be necessary to the end that each
procedural step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that
they will be valid, and subsisting local laws in so far as their passage, and
approval are concerned. The governing body shall have the right to compensate
the Municipal Attorney for legal services on such terms as the governing body
and the Municipal Attorney may agree, and to employ any additional legal
assistance as may be necessary out of the funds of the municipality.
(1997 Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-610
§ 33.06 MUNICIPAL PHYSICIAN.
   The Municipal Physician shall be a member of the Board of Health of the
municipality, and perform the duties devolving upon him or her as the medical
advisor of the said Board. In all injuries where a liability may be asserted
against the municipality, the Municipal Physician shall immediately investigate
the said injuries, the extent thereof, and the circumstances. He or she shall
then report the results of his or her investigation with the name of the party
injured, and all other persons who may have personal knowledge of the matter.
He or she shall make all physical examinations, and necessary laboratory tests
incident thereto, and issue such health certificates as are required by
ordinance. For the purpose of making examinations of the sanitary conditions of
the property, and the state of health of the inhabitants therein, he or she
shall have the right at all reasonable hours to go upon, and enter all
premises, buildings or other structures in the municipality. He or she shall
perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by the laws of the
State of Nebraska, and the ordinances of the municipality. When ordered to do
so by the governing body he or she shall disinfect, or fumigate the premises,
or persons in or about the premises, when the premises are quarantined, and to
call upon indigent sick persons, and perform other professional services at the
direction of the governing body. The Municipal Physician shall receive as
compensation for his or her services such sum as the governing body may from
time to time set. He or she shall receive no compensation for his or her
services as a member of the Municipal Board of Health.
(1997 Code, § 1-209)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 33.07 COUNTY SHERIFF AS LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The County Sheriff shall direct the police work of the municipality and
shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He or she shall act
as Health Inspector, except in the event the municipality appoints another
person to that office. He or she shall file the necessary complaints in cases
arising out of violations of municipal ordinances, and shall make all necessary
reports required by the municipal ordinances or the laws of the State of
Nebraska.
(1997 Code, § 1-210)
§ 33.08 MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He or she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the
prevention of fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable
substances; the installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire
extinguishing equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of
all premises requiring adequate fire escapes. He or she shall within two days
investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of fires arising within his or
her jurisdiction. He or she shall, on or before April 1 and October 1 of each
year, cause the Secretary to file with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, and the
Clerk of the District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all members in
good standing in their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions
provided by law. He or she shall have the power during the time of a fire, and
for a period of 36 hours thereafter to arrest any suspected arsonist, or any
person for hindering the Department’s efforts, conducting himself or herself in
a noisy and disorderly manner, or who shall refuse to obey any lawful order by
the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The Fire Chief, or his or her assistant
in charge of operations at a fire may command the services of any person
present at any fire in extinguishing the same or in the removal, and protection
of property. Failure to obey such an order shall be an offense punishable by a
fine. The Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours into
buildings, and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purpose
of examining the same for fire hazards, and related dangers.
(1997 Code, § 1-211)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-147, 17-505, 35-102, 35-108,
81-506, 81-512
§ 33.09 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The governing body may employ a Special Engineer to make any particular
estimate, survey or other work. The Special Engineer shall make a record of the
minutes of his or her surveys and all other work done for the municipality. He
or she shall, when directed by the governing body, accurately make all plats,
sections, profiles and maps as may be necessary in the judgment of the
governing body. He or she shall, upon request of the governing body, make
estimates of the costs of labor and material which may be done or furnished by
contract with the municipality, and make all surveys, estimates and
calculations necessary for the establishment of grades, bridges, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, curbing and gutters, and the improvement of streets and
erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as the
governing body may require. All records of the Special Engineer shall be public
records which shall belong to the municipality, and shall be turned over to his
or her successor.
(1997 Code, § 1-212)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-405, 17-568, 17-568.01, 17-
919
§ 33.10 MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Municipal Utilities Superintendent shall, subject to the orders and
directives of the governing body, have general charge, direction and control of
all work on the streets sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the municipality,
electrical and water distribution systems, sewer and sewer disposal, and shall
perform such other duties as the governing body may require. It shall be his or
her responsibility to see that gutters and drains therein function properly,
and that the same are kept in good repair. He or she shall at the request of
the governing body make a detailed report to the governing body on the
condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys and bridges of the
municipality, and shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs,
extensions, additions and additional employees as he or she may believe are
needed to maintain a satisfactory street system in the municipality along with
an estimate of the cost thereof.
(1997 Code, § 1-213)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-119
§ 33.11 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   The Municipal Electrical Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to the
installation of electrical wiring, and connections thereto. When acting in good
faith, and without malice in the scope of his or her official duties, he or she
shall not himself or herself be held personally liable for any damage that may
accrue to persons, or property as the result of any act required by him or her,
or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his or her duties. He
or she shall, in the discharge of his or her official duties, and upon proper
identification, have authority to enter into any building, structure or
premises at any reasonable hour. He or she shall perform such other duties, and
issue any permits that the governing body may direct.
(1997 Code, § 1-214)
§ 33.12 CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR.
   Pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 81, Article 8, the Mayor may appoint, with the
consent of the City Council, a Civil Defense Director to establish and
implement a civil defense organization in accordance with the state civil
defense plan and program. The term of office shall be for one year, unless
sooner removed by the Mayor.
(1997 Code, § 1-215)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-604
MUNICIPAL CLERK-TREASURER
§ 33.25 MUNICIPAL CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall be the custodian of all moneys belonging
to the municipality. He or she shall keep all money belonging to the
municipality separate, and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall
keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation, and the debits, and
credits belonging thereto. He or she shall issue duplicate receipts for all
moneys received by him or her for the municipality. He or she shall give to
every person paying money into the municipal treasury, a receipt therefor,
specifying the date of payment, and the account paid. One of the receipts shall
be filed with his or her monthly report, and the last copy of the said receipt
shall be kept on file in his or her office. His or her books and accounts shall
always be open for inspection by any citizen of the municipality whenever any
municipal fiscal record, audit, warrant, voucher, invoice, purchase order,
requisition, payroll check, receipt or other record of receipt, cash or
expenditure involving public funds is involved. He or she shall cancel all
bonds, coupons, warrants and other evidences of debt against the municipality,
whenever paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid
by the Municipal Clerk- Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped
thereon. He or she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special
assessments to the several owners, and shall obtain from the County Treasurer a
monthly report as to the collection of delinquent taxes. The Clerk-Treasurer’s
daily cash book shall be footed and balanced daily, and he or she shall adopt
such bookkeeping methods as the governing body shall prescribe. He or she shall
invest and collect all money owned by, or owed to, the municipality as directed
by the governing body.
(1997 Code, § 1-205)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-606 through 17-609, 84-712
§ 33.26 CLERK-TREASURER’S MONTHLY REPORT.
   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall at the end of each, and every month, and
such other times as the governing body may deem necessary, render an account to
the governing body under oath showing the financial state of the municipality
at that date, the amount of money remaining in each fund and the amount paid
therefrom, and the balance of money remaining in the treasury. He or she shall
accompany the said account with a statement of all receipts, and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed, and paid by him or her. He or she shall
also produce depository evidence that all municipal money is in a solvent and
going bank in the name of the municipality. If the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
shall neglect, or fail for the space of ten days from the end of each and every
month to render his or her accounts as aforesaid, the governing body shall, by
resolution, declare the office vacant, and appoint some person to fill the
vacancy. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall be present at each regular meeting
of the governing body at which time he or she shall read and file his or her
monthly report.
(1997 Code, § 1-206)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-606
§ 33.27 CLERK-TREASURER’S ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall publish in a legal newspaper having
general circulation within the municipality, within 60 days following the first
day of August of each year, a report of the activities of his or her office
which said report shall show in detail. Said report shall include all receipts,
disbursements, warrants outstanding and the debit, or credit balance of the
municipality.
(1997 Code, § 1-207)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1101
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 34: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Standing committees; general provisions
Commissions and Boards
   
34.15   Library Board
   
34.16   Planning Commission
   
34.17   Board of Adjustment
   
34.18   Board of Health
   
34.19   Cemetery Board
   
34.20   Rest Home Board
   
34.21   Airport Authority Board
   
34.22   Tree Board
   
34.23   Municipal Golf Course Board
Housing Agency
   
34.35   Rights and duties
   
34.36   Arapahoe Housing Agency Board
   
34.37   Appointment of Resident Commissioner
   
34.38   Removal of Commissioners
   
34.39   Status of agency
   
34.40   Housing Agency Act adopted
   
34.41   Policies and procedures
   
34.42   Rules and regulations
   
34.43   Annual reports
   
34.44   Filing of plans
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 STANDING COMMITTEES; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall
appoint members of such standing committees as the City Council may by
ordinance, or resolution create. The membership of such standing committees may
be changed at any time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of
each standing committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a
term of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The following standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed
each year until changed by the governing body:
      (1)   Street and Alley Committee;
      (2)   Water and Light Committee;
      (3)   Finance Committee;
      (4)   Human Resources Committee;
      (5)   Medical Facility Committee;
      (6)   Economic Development - Citizen Advisory Committee; and
      (7)   Machinery Committee.
(1997 Code, § 2-101)
COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
§ 34.15 LIBRARY BOARD.
   The Library Board shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by a
majority vote of the City Council. The Board shall consist of five members who
shall be residents of the municipality. The members of the Library Board shall
serve a four-year term of office as specified by Nebraska statutes. The Board
shall serve without compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the
governing body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing
body, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the
Board’s first meeting each year after the beginning of a member’s term of
office, the Board shall organize by selecting from their number a Chairperson
and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and
correct minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the same with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer where they shall be available for public inspection
at any reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as
the governing body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of
the Chairperson, or any three members of the Board. The Library Board shall
have the authority to appoint a librarian and all other employees. It shall be
the duty of the Board to have general charge of the municipal library and to
establish appropriate rules and regulations for the management, operation and
use of the same. The Board shall have supervisory authority over all employees
of the library including the librarian. All actions of the Board shall be
subject to the review and supervision of the governing body. The Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such additional duties as
the governing body may designate from time to time. No member of the governing
body shall serve as a member of the Library Board while serving a term of
office as a member of the governing body. No member of the Library Board shall
serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
(1997 Code, § 2-201)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-202
§ 34.16 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of nine regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City
Council. Two of the regular members may be residents of the area over which the
municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation. When there is a sufficient number of residents in the area over
which the municipality exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from such
area. If it is determined by the City Council that a sufficient number of
residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. For purposes of this section, a SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF
RESIDENTS shall mean 500 residents. The term of each regular member shall be
three years, except that three regular members of the first Commission shall
serve for terms of one year, three for terms of two years, and three for terms
of three years. All regular members shall hold office until their successors
are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the City Council,
be removed by the Mayor with the consent of a majority vote of the members
elected to the City Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in
office, or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than
through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the
term by the Mayor.
   (B)   All regular members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
and shall hold no other municipal office except when appointed to serve on the
Board of Adjustment as provided in Neb. RS 19-908. All members of the
Commission may be required, in the discretion of the Mayor and City Council, to
give bond in a sum set by resolution of the City Council, and conditioned upon
the faithful performance of their duties. At the time of the Commission’s first
meeting each year after the beginning of a member’s term of office, the
Commission shall organize by selecting from its membership a Chairperson and
Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer where they shall be available for public inspection during
office hours. The Commission shall be funded by the City Council from time to
time out of the General Fund. A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of
the number of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of any business. Special meetings may be held upon
the call of the Chairperson, or any three members of the Commission. It shall
be the duty of the Commission to make and adopt plans for the physical
development of the municipality, including any areas outside its boundaries
which, in the Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the planning of the
municipality. All actions by the Commission shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the Mayor and City Council. Recommendations from the Commission
shall be received by the City Council within 45 days after the Commission
begins consideration of a matter relating to the comprehensive development
plan, capital improvements, building codes, subdivision development, the
annexation of territory or zoning. The Commission shall be responsible for
making such reports and performing such other duties as the Mayor and City
Council may, from time to time, designate. No member of the City Council, the
Mayor or other municipal official, except where otherwise specifically
provided, shall serve as a member of the Commission while serving any other
term of office. No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both
the Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission.
   (C)   The Mayor, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members
of the City Council, shall appoint one alternate member to the Commission. The
alternate member shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other
municipal office. The term of the alternate member shall be three years, and he
or she shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed and approved.
The alternate member may be removed from office in the same manner as a regular
member. If the alternate member position becomes vacant other than through the
expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by the Mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the City Council. The alternate member may attend any meeting and
may serve as a voting and participating member of the Commission at any time
when less than the full number of regular Commission members is present and
capable of voting.
(1997 Code, § 2-202)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-924 through 19-929
§ 34.17 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Adjustment shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by a
majority vote of the elected members of the City Council. The Board of
Adjustment shall consist of five regular members plus one additional member
designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only when one of the
regular members is unable to attend for any reason. Each member of the Board
shall serve a term of three years, unless reappointed, and shall be removable
only for good and sufficient cause by the governing body upon written charges
and after a public hearing. The members of the Board shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the governing body, to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body, and conditioned
upon the faithful performance of their duties. One member of the Board of
Adjustment shall be at the same time a member of the Planning Commission at all
times. Upon the loss of membership on the Planning Commission the said member
shall also lose his or her membership on the Board of Adjustment. At the
Board’s first meeting each year after the beginning of a member’s term of
office, the Board shall organize by selecting from its membership a Chairperson
and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep complete and
accurate minutes of all Board meetings and to file the same at the office of
the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for examination at any reasonable time by the
public. The Board of Adjustment shall be funded from time to time out of the
General Fund by the governing body. Meetings of the Board shall be held at such
times as the governing body may designate, or at such other times as the
Chairperson may, in his or her discretion call a meeting. Special meetings may
be also held upon the call of any three members of the Board. A majority of the
Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. It shall be
the duty of the Board to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there
is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by a
municipal official based on any zoning ordinance of the municipality; to hear
and decide in accordance with the provisions of any zoning ordinance, requests
for interpretation of any map; and authorize a variance from the strict
application of any zoning ordinance if it is found that a specific piece of
property, due to exceptional specifications existing at the time of passage of
the said ordinance, would result in exceptional difficulties and undue
hardship; provided, that no variance shall be granted if the undue hardship
appears to affect the property in the district generally, or if the situation
of the property concerned appears to be so general or recurring in nature as to
make reasonably practicable, the formulation of a general regulation to be
adopted by the governing body as an ordinance. The concurring vote of four
members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by a municipal official on any matter which was
governed by any municipal zoning ordinance. The Board shall be responsible for
making such reports and performing such other duties as the governing body may
designate. No member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the Board
of Adjustment except as herein provided. No member of the Board of Adjustment
shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
(1997 Code, § 2-203)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-907 through 19-910, 19-
912.01
§ 34.18 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of four members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who shall
serve as Chairperson, the President of the City Council and two other members.
One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be found
who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if appointed,
shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a Chief of
Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary and
quarantine officer. The members of the Board shall serve, without compensation,
a one-year term of office, unless reappointed, and shall reorganize at the
first meeting in December of each year. No member of the Board of Health shall
hold more than one Board of Health position.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer where they shall
be available for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health
shall be funded by the governing body from time to time out of the General
Fund. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
doing business. The Board shall meet at such times as the governing body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or
any two members of the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the
municipality. The Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide
fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress and
prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the State of
Nebraska and ordinances of the municipality relating to nuisances and to
matters of sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The
Board shall regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the governing
body may direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such other duties as the governing body may, from time
to time, designate.
(1997 Code, § 2-204)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 34.19 CEMETERY BOARD.
   The Cemetery Board shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by a
majority vote of the elected members of the City Council. The Cemetery Board
shall consist of six members who are residents of the municipality and who
shall serve without compensation for a term of three years. Two members shall
be appointed each year and may be required, in the discretion of the governing
body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body, and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the Board’s first
meeting each year after the beginning of a member’s term of office, the Board
shall organize by selecting from its membership a Chairperson and Secretary.
The Secretary shall keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer where they shall
be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the
Board members shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The
Board shall meet at such times as the governing body may designate. Special
meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any three members of
the Board. The Board shall have the general care, management and supervision of
the municipal cemetery with the power and authority to limit and regulate the
number of cemetery lots that may be owned by the same person; to prescribe
rules for enclosing, adorning and erecting monuments and tombstones on cemetery
lots; and to prohibit any diverse or improper use thereof; provided, no
religious tests shall be made as to the ownership of lots, the burial therein
and the ornamentation of graves. The Board shall pass rules and regulations for
the proper use of the cemetery and prescribe penalties and fines for violations
thereof. The Board shall use all revenue received from the sale of lots, gifts
or by devise for the care, management and administration of the cemetery. All
actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
governing body and it shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such additional duties as the governing body may designate. No
member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the Board while serving
a term of office as a member of the governing body. No member of the Cemetery
Board shall hold more than one Cemetery Board office.
(1997 Code, § 2-205)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403
§ 34.20 REST HOME BOARD.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall appoint a Rest Home Board consisting
of three members to be chosen from residents of the city. One of the persons so
appointed shall hold office for a term of three years and one for a term of two
years and one for a term of one year and until his or her successor is
appointed and qualified. No member shall receive compensation for his or her
services, but shall be reimbursed for any reasonable expenses necessarily
incurred in the performance of duties as a member of said Board. Before
entering upon the duties of said office, each member shall qualify by taking
and filing in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer the oath as provided
by law.
   (B)   The Board shall meet in regular session not less than once each
calendar month at such time and place as the Board shall determine. The first
such meeting shall be held at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer at a
time designated by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer not later than two weeks after
the date of the appointment of the members thereof, at which time the Board
shall organize by the election of one member as President and one member as
Vice-President and one member as Secretary. Said Board shall organize on the
anniversary of said meeting in each year. Two members of said Board shall
constitute a quorum. The Board shall act as an advisory body only for the
maintenance and operation of the home operated and owned by the Good Samaritan
Society.
(1997 Code, § 2-206)
§ 34.21 AIRPORT AUTHORITY BOARD.
   The Airport Authority Board shall have the full and exclusive jurisdiction
and control over all facilities owned or hereafter acquired by the municipality
for the purpose of aviation operation, air navigation and air safety operation.
The Board is a body corporate and politic, constituting a public corporation,
and an agency of the municipality. The Board shall consist of five members.
Members of the Board shall be nominated and elected in the manner provided by
law for the election of other elected officials and shall take office on the
same date as other elected officials of municipal election years. Members of
the Board shall be residents of the municipality and shall serve a term of six
years. Two members of the Board shall be elected in each municipal election
year; provided, that in each third election year, one member only shall be
elected to the Airport Authority Board. Any vacancy on the Board resulting from
any other cause than the expiration of a term of office, shall be filled by
temporary appointment by the Mayor until a successor can be elected at the next
general municipal election to serve the unexpired portion of the term. A member
of the Board may be removed from office for incompetence, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office. An action for the removal of such officer may be
brought, upon the resolution of the City Council, in the District Court of the
county. The Board shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed
by state law.
(1997 Code, § 2-208)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 3-501 through 3-514
§ 34.22 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Community Tree Board for the
city which shall consist of six members, citizens and residents of this city,
who shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval of the City
Council.
   (B)   The term of office of the Community Tree Board shall be three years,
except that the term of two of the members appointed for the first Board shall
be for only one year, and the term of two members of the first Board shall be
for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of
the term.
   (C)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the Community Tree Board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop a written plan for the care, preservation,
trimming, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in
public ways, streets and alleys. Such plan shall be presented to the Mayor and
City Council and upon the acceptance and approval of the Mayor and City
Council, shall constitute the official Comprehensive Community Tree Plan for
the city.
   (E)   The Tree Board shall review annually, and update if needed, the
Comprehensive City Tree Plan. The Community Tree Board shall prepare and
present an annual work plan to the Mayor and City Council for their acceptance
and approval.
   (F)   The Community Tree Board, when requested by the Mayor and City
Council, shall consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon
any special matter of question coming within the scope of its work.
   (G)   The Community Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own
rules and regulations and keep a record of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(1997 Code, § 2-209)
§ 34.23 MUNICIPAL GOLF COURSE BOARD.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall establish a Board to govern day to
day operations of the Municipal Golf Course and the Club House thereon. Said
Board shall be composed of six members, appointed by the Mayor, no less than
four of whom shall be residents of the City of Arapahoe. All other members of
the Board that do not reside within Arapahoe city limits must maintain a golf
membership.
   (B)   The initial Board shall be composed of two members with terms of three
years, two members with terms of four years, and two members with terms of five
years. At the expiration of the initial terms, then each term shall be three
years.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-21-2022)
HOUSING AGENCY
§ 34.35 RIGHTS AND DUTIES.
   The previously created and existing Housing Authority shall continue to
exist as a Housing Agency under the Nebraska Housing Agency Act, and shall
hereafter conduct its operations consistent with the said Act. It shall be
named the Arapahoe Housing Agency and all property, rights and land, buildings,
records and equipment and any funds, money, revenue, receipts or assets of the
Housing Authority shall belong to the Arapahoe Housing Agency as successor. All
obligations, debts, commitments and liabilities of the Housing Authority shall
become obligations, debts, commitments and liabilities of the Arapahoe Housing
Agency. Any previously passed resolutions of the Housing Authority, and any
actions taken by the Housing Authority prior to January 1, 2000, with regard to
any project or program which is to be completed within or to be conducted for a
12-month period following January 1, 2000, and which resolution or action is
lawful under Nebraska law as it exists to the operative date of LB-105, shall
be a lawful resolution or action of the Arapahoe Housing Agency, binding upon
and enforceable by or against the Arapahoe Housing Agency, notwithstanding that
such resolution or action is inconsistent with, not authorized or prohibited
under the provisions of the Nebraska Housing Agency Act. All Commissioners of
the Housing Authority and all officers, technical experts, directors and other
appointees or employees of the Housing Authority holding office or employment
by virtue of any such prior law on January 1, 2000, shall be deemed to have
been appointed or employed under the Nebraska Housing Agency Act.
(1997 Code, § 2-211) (Ord. 2000-01, passed 4-18-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 71-1576
§ 34.36 ARAPAHOE HOUSING AGENCY BOARD.
   The Mayor shall appoint, subject to confirmation by the Council, five
persons who, along with the Resident Commissioner, if any, shall constitute the
Housing Agency Board and such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a
five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly appointed and
qualified; provided that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms.
The Council may appoint one of its members to serve as one of the five members
of such Housing Agency for such term as the Council may determine. No person
shall serve as a Commissioner unless he or she resides within the area of the
Arapahoe Housing Agency. A certificate of the appointment or reappointment of
any Commissioner shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer, and such
certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the proper appointment of such
Commissioner. The Commissioner shall receive no compensation for his or her
services, but he or she shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including
travel expenses, incurred in discharge of his or her duties as provided by Neb.
RS 81-1175 through 81-1177. A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a
quorum of the Agency for the purpose of conducting its business, exercising its
powers and for all other purposes. Action may be taken by the Agency upon the
vote of the majority of the Commissioners present and voting, unless the bylaws
of the Agency or the ordinance creating the Agency require a larger number. The
Commissioners shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from among the
Commissioners and shall have the power to employ an executive director who
shall serve as ex officio Secretary of the Agency. The Agency may also employ
legal counsel for said services as it may require. It may employ accountants,
appraisers, technical experts and such other officers, agents and employees as
it may require and shall determine their qualifications, duties, compensations
and terms of office. The Agency may delegate such other powers and duties to
its agents or employees, as it may deem proper. During his or her tenure and
for one year thereafter, no Commissioner, officer or employee of the Housing
Agency shall voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any
project or in any property included or planned to be included in any project,
or in any contract or proposed contract relating to a housing project. If any
such Commissioner, officer or employee involuntarily acquires any such
interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to
appointment or employment as Commissioner, office or employee, he or she shall
immediately disclose his or her interest in writing to the Agency, and he or
she shall not participate in any action by the Agency relating to the property
or contract in which he or she has any such interest. Any violation of the
provisions of this section shall constitute misconduct in office. This
prohibition shall not apply to the acquisition of any interest in notes or
bonds of the Agency issued in connection with any housing project, or to the
execution of the agreements by banking institutions for deposit or handling of
funds in connection with a project or to act as trustee under any trust
indenture, or to utility services, the rates for which are fixed or controlled
by a governmental agency. This section shall not be construed to preclude,
regulate or restrict the participation of any tenant of the Agency from
serving, if appointed, as a Commissioner of such authority, but he or she may
not participate in any decision solely affecting his or her individual
interest.
(1997 Code, § 2-212) (Ord. 2000-01, passed 4-18-2000)
§ 34.37 APPOINTMENT OF RESIDENT COMMISSIONER.
   A sixth Commissioner, to be known as the Resident Commissioner, shall be
appointed to the governing body by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the
Council. To select the initial Resident Commissioner, or to fill subsequent
vacancies in the position, the Housing Agency shall notify any Resident
Advisory Board or other resident organization and all adult persons directly
assisted by such Agency to the effect that the position of Resident
Commissioner is open and that if any such person is interested in being
considered as a candidate for the position, such person should notify the
Housing Agency, in writing, within 30 days of the person’s willingness to be
considered and to serve as Resident Commissioner. The names of all persons
interested who have notified the Housing Agency of their interests in so
serving shall be forwarded to the Mayor and the Resident Commissioner shall be
appointed from the list of names, subject to confirmation by the Council. Upon
the appointment of the Resident Commissioner, the certificate of appointment
shall state the term is for five years or when no longer an eligible resident,
whichever occurs first. In the event that no qualified person has submitted his
or her name to the Housing Agency as being interested as a candidate for the
position, and the Housing Agency has received no notification of interest in
serving as a Resident Commissioner by any person, no Resident Commissioner
shall be required to be selected. In the event a Resident Commissioner is
appointed and resigns from the position prior to completion of the appointed
term, or is no longer an eligible resident, or is otherwise disqualified or
removed from the Board, and a vacancy is created, the Housing Agency shall
solicit new candidates for the position following the same procedure set forth
above. In the event that no Resident Commissioner is selected and the position
is not filled, the Agency shall re-notify all adult persons directly assisted
by the Agency that the position of Resident Commissioner is open and solicit
these persons for candidates for the position not less than once annually.
(1997 Code, § 2-213) (Ord. 2000-01, passed 4-18-2000)
§ 34.38 REMOVAL OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The Mayor may remove a Commissioner for neglect of duty, misconduct in
office or conviction of any felony, in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The
Mayor shall send a notice of removal to such Commissioner, which notice shall
set forth the charges against him or her. Unless within the ten days from the
receipt of such notice, the Commissioner files with the Clerk-Treasurer a
request for a hearing before the Council, the Commissioner shall be deemed
removed from office. If a request for a hearing is filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer, the Council shall hold a hearing not sooner than ten days after the
date a hearing is requested, at which time the Commissioner shall have the
right to appear in person or by counsel and the Council shall determine whether
the removal shall be upheld. If the removal is not upheld, the Commissioner
shall continue to hold his or her office.
(1997 Code, § 2-214) (Ord. 2000-01, passed 4-18-2000)
§ 34.39 STATUS OF AGENCY.
   The Arapahoe Housing Agency is a political subdivision, distinct and
separate from the city. The Housing Agency shall constitute a public body,
corporate and politic, and shall have all the powers necessary or convenient to
carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of the Nebraska Housing
Agency Act.
(1997 Code, § 2-215) (Ord. 2000-01, passed 4-18-2000)
§ 34.40 HOUSING AGENCY ACT ADOPTED.
   Except as otherwise herein specifically provided, the definitions, terms,
provisions and conditions set forth in the Nebraska Statutes under the Nebraska
Housing Agency Act are hereby adopted by reference, as they now exist, or may
hereafter be amended, for the operation and management of the Arapahoe Housing
Agency, and the Housing Agency Commission shall fully comply with and be
governed by the terms of the Nebraska Housing Act.
(1997 Code, § 2-216) (Ord. 2000-01, passed 4-18-2000)
§ 34.41 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Housing Agency shall adopt and promulgate fair and equitable policies
establishing a plan for selection of applicants. The plan shall include
standards for eligibility, procedures for prompt notification of eligibility or
disqualification and procedures for maintaining a waiting list of eligible
applicants for whom vacancies are not immediately available. Eligible
applicants shall be offered available vacancies as provided in such policies.
(1997 Code, § 2-217) (Ord. 2000-01, passed 4-18-2000)
§ 34.42 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Housing Agency may adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and regulations
related to carrying out the purposes of the local housing agency and exercise
of its powers, and may amend or repeal such rules and regulations from time to
time.
(1997 Code, § 2-218) (Ord. 2000-01, passed 4-18-2000)
§ 34.43 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   Within six months after the end of the Housing Agency’s fiscal year, the
Housing Agency shall prepare an annual report. This report shall contain
financial statements and the results of the operations. The report shall be
approved by the Board of Commissioners and signed by the Chairperson. The
annual report of the Housing Agency shall be a public record and available for
inspection and copying by members of the general public at the Housing Agency
office. The annual report shall be placed on file with the City Clerk-Treasurer
upon completion thereof.
(1997 Code, § 2-219) (Ord. 2000-01, passed 4-18-2000)
§ 34.44 FILING OF PLANS.
   The Housing Agency shall file with the City Clerk-Treasurer a copy of the
five-year plan and annual plan required by § 511 of the Federal Quality Housing
and Work Responsibility Act of 1998. The plans shall be filed within 30 days
after the date the plan is filed with the Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
(1997 Code, § 2-220) (Ord. 2000-01, passed 4-18-2000)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 2-301)
CHAPTER 35: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Fire Department
   
35.01   Operation and funding
   
35.02   Fire Chief
   
35.03   Membership
Fires
   
35.15   Fires
   
35.16   Distant fires
   
35.17   Fighting distant fires
   
35.18   Power of arrest
   
35.19   Fire investigation
 
   
35.99   Penalty
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the
Municipal Fire Chief and firefighters. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management, maintenance and improving the Fire
Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits prescribed
by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said
tax shall be known as the Fire Department Fund. The Fund shall be at all times
in the possession of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The municipality is
authorized to enter into agreement with the appropriate Rural Fire District for
the mutual aid and protection of the municipality and the residents of the
Rural Fire District.
(1997 Code, § 3-501)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-147, 17-718, 17-953
§ 35.02 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be his or
her duty to inform the governing body when any of the fire engines, hose,
ladders or other apparatus needs repair.
   (B)   Upon the written consent and directive of the governing body, the Fire
Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or maintenance of the said equipment
and shall personally supervise and approve of the same.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the governing
body at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to
the governing body of the general condition and the proposed additions or
improvements recommended by him or her.
(1997 Code, § 3-502)
§ 35.03 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall appoint no more than 40 members for the Fire
Department subject to the review and approval of the City Council. All
vacancies shall be filled in this manner. All members must be at least 18 years
of age and high school graduates, however, only those members who are 21 years
of age or older will be permitted to drive Fire Department vehicles. Said
members shall be considered to be employees of the municipality for the purpose
of providing them with worker’s compensation and other benefits. Each member
shall be entitled to a term life insurance policy as provided by the statutes
of the State of Nebraska.
   (B)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
upon by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they
may decide, subject to the review of the City Council. They may hold meetings
and engage in social activities, with the approval of the City Council. The
Secretary shall, upon request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a
report to the City Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire
Department.
   (C)   The City Council may, for services rendered, compensate or reward any
member or members of the Fire Department in an amount set by resolution. All
members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and regulations
and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed of them by the Fire Chief or
the City Council.
   (D)   The members of the Fire Department shall, during the time of a fire or
great public danger, have and exercise the powers and duties of a police
officer and shall have the full power and authority to arrest all persons
guilty of any violation of the municipal code or of the laws of the State of
Nebraska.
(1997 Code, § 3-503)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 35-101 through 35-103
FIRES
§ 35.15 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the municipality; and to
secure the observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations
with respect to fires and fire prevention.
(1997 Code, § 3-504)
§ 35.16 DISTANT FIRES.
   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, such fire equipment of the
municipality as may be designated by the governing body as rural equipment may
be used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
(1997 Code, § 3-505)
§ 35.17 FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
   The firefighters of the municipality shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the municipality when directed
to do so by the Mayor or Chief of the Fire Department or some person authorized
to act for such Chief and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the
municipality as may be designated by the governing body.
(1997 Code, § 3-506)
§ 35.18 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Municipal Fire Chief or the assistant Fire Chief shall have the power
during the time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the firefighting effort, or any person who conducts himself or
herself in a noisy or disorderly manner. The said officials shall be severally
vested with the usual powers and authority of municipal police officers to
command all persons to assist them in the performance of their duties.
(1997 Code, § 3-507)
§ 35.19 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of
$50. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such officers shall
especially make an investigation and report as to whether such fire was the
result of carelessness, accident or design. Such investigation shall be begun
within two days of the occurrence of such fire and the State Fire Marshal shall
have the right to supervise and direct the investigation whenever he or she
deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the investigation of fires
occurring within the municipality shall immediately notify the State Fire
Marshal and shall, within one week of the occurrence of the fire, furnish him
or her with a written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and
origin of the fire, and such further information as he or she may call for.
(1997 Code, § 3-508)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-506
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 3-901)
CHAPTER 36: ELECTIONS
Section
   
36.01   Generally
   
36.02   Election of officers; certification
   
36.03   Officers; terms; qualifications
   
36.04   Wards
   
36.05   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
36.06   Joint, general; notice
   
36.07   Special, joint
   
36.08   Filing fee
   
36.09   Petition candidates, number of signatures required; requirements;
procedure
   
36.10   Registered voters; qualifications
   
36.11   Primary election, number of candidates filing
   
36.12   Certificate of nomination
   
36.13   Certificate of election
   
36.14   Recall procedure
 
   
36.99   Penalty
§ 36.01 GENERALLY.
   All municipal issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if municipal offices or issues
can be reasonably be combined with the non-partisan ballot and state law does
not require otherwise. When the municipality holds an election in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election, the election shall be held as
provided in the Election Act. Any other election by the municipality shall be
held as provided in the Election Act.
(1997 Code, § 1-701)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-404(1), 32-556
§ 36.02 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
   All municipal elections involving the election of officers shall be held in
accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the statewide general
election. No later than the fifth of January of each even-numbered year, the
governing body shall certify to the Secretary of State, the Election
Commissioner or the County Clerk the name of the municipality, the number of
officers to be elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be
filled by election and length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be
cast by a registered voter for each office.
(1997 Code, § 1-702)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-404(2), 32-556
§ 36.03 OFFICERS; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Commencing with the primary election in 1976 and every two years
thereafter, all elected officers of the municipality shall be nominated at the
statewide primary election and elected at the statewide general election. All
elected officers of the municipality shall serve for terms of four years or
until their successors are elected and qualified.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be a resident and registered voter of the
municipality.
   (C)   The members of the City Council shall be elected from the municipality
by wards, as defined in §
36.04, unless the registered voters of the municipality vote to elect its
Council members at large. Each ward of the municipality shall have three
Council members elected in the manner provided in the Election Act. The term of
office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the City Council in December
following the statewide general election. No person shall be eligible to the
office of Council member who is not at the time of the election an actual
resident of the ward for which he or she is elected and a registered voter.
(1997 Code, § 1-703)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-103, 17-104, 32-533, 32-554
§ 36.04 WARDS.
   (A)   The municipality shall redistrict as often as necessary using the most
recent federal census to ensure that each ward is substantially equal in
population.
   (B)   The municipality shall stand divided into the following wards as set
forth herein:
      (1)   East Ward. All that part of the City of Arapahoe, now legally
attached to and incorporated within the limits of the city, or which may
hereafter be legally attached to and incorporated therein, lying east of
Highway 283 plus all that lies between Maple and Oak Street from 7th Street to
Highway 283, also known as Nebraska Avenue, shall constitute the East Ward of
the city.
      (2)   West Ward. All that part of the City of Arapahoe, now legally
attached to and incorporated within the limits of the city, or which may
hereafter be legally attached to and incorporated therein, lying west of the
centerline of Highway 283, also known as Nebraska Avenue, except that area that
lies between Maple and Oak Street from 7th Street to Highway 283, shall
constitute the West Ward of the city.
(1997 Code, § 1-704) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-17-2015; Ord. 2021-03, passed 12-
21-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-102
§ 36.05 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city offices shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the governing body provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No
ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall
permit affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for
purposes of the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination and
election on a partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60
days prior to the filing deadline.
(1997 Code, § 1-705)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-557
§ 36.06 JOINT, GENERAL; NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk no less than 40 days prior to an election shall serve as the
notice requirement for all municipal elections which are held in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
(1997 Code, § 1-706)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-802
§ 36.07 SPECIAL, JOINT.
   (A)   Any issue to be submitted to the registered voters at a special
election by the municipality shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior
to the election. A special election may be held by mail as provided in Neb. RS
32-952 through 32-959. No special election to be conducted by the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall be held within 30 days prior to or 60 days
after the statewide primary election, and no special election to be conducted
by the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall be held within 30 days prior
to or 60 days after the statewide general election.
   (B)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the
municipality may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or
at any scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted
at a statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk by the first of March for the primary election and
by the first of September for the general election.
   (C)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the
publication or posting of any required special notice of the submission of such
issue other than the notice required to be given of the statewide election
issues. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and
issue absentee ballots and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of the ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The
ballots, including absentee ballots, shall be counted and canvassed at the same
time and in the same manner as the other ballots. Upon completion of the
canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the governing body. The
canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect as
if made by the governing body.
(1997 Code, § 1-707)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-559
§ 36.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (C) or (D) below, a filing fee shall
be paid to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate
prior to filing for office. The filing fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the
annual salary such candidate will receive if he or she is elected and qualifies
for the office for which he or she files as a candidate. The fee shall be
placed in the General Fund of the municipality. No candidate filing forms shall
be filed until the proper receipt showing payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer.
   (B)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer. Any undeclared write-in candidate who is nominated or
elected by write-in votes shall pay the filing fee required for the office
within ten days after the canvass of votes by the Canvassing Board and shall
file the receipt with the person issuing the certificate of nomination or the
certificate of election prior to the certificate being issued.
   (C)   No filing fee shall be required on any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis. A PAUPER
shall mean a person whose income and other resources for maintenance are found
under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his or
her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
Available resources shall include every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
      (1)   Real property used as a home;
      (2)   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
      (3)   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
   (E)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the governing body
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the governing
body, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(1997 Code, § 1-708)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-608
§ 36.09 PETITION CANDIDATES, NUMBER OF SIGNATURES REQUIRED; REQUIREMENTS;
PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Candidates for any elected office of the municipality may be nominated
by petition. The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election shall
be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for Governor or
President of the United States at the immediately preceding general election in
the ward in which the officer is to be elected.
   (B)   Petitions for nomination for nonpartisan offices shall conform to the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled
and the name and address of the candidate. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the ward in which the officer is to be elected
and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided for
candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition signer and circulators shall
conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for
nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer’s receipt showing payment of the filing fee required pursuant to §
36.08. Such petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general
election.
(1997 Code, § 1-709)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-617, 32-618
§ 36.10 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
municipality on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all
municipal elections. For purposes of this section, REGISTERED VOTER shall mean
an elector, as defined by Neb. RS 32-110, who has a current voter registration
record on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(1997 Code, § 1-710)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-602, 32-110, 32-115
§ 36.11 PRIMARY ELECTION, NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING.
   If the names of candidates properly filed for nomination at the primary
election for officers of the municipality does not exceed two candidates for
each position to be filled, any such candidates shall be declared nominated and
their names shall not appear on any primary election ballots.
(1997 Code, § 1-711)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-811
§ 36.12 CERTIFICATE OF NOMINATION.
   The Election Commissioner, County Clerk or Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall,
within 40 days after the primary election, prepare, sign and deliver a
certificate of nomination to each person whom the County Canvassing Board has
declared to have received sufficient votes to be nominated as a candidate for
the general election.
(1997 Code, § 1-712)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-558, 32-1033
§ 36.13 CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.
   The Election Commissioner, County Clerk or Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall,
within 40 days after the election, prepare, sign and deliver a certificate of
election to each person whom the County Canvassing Board has declared to have
received the highest vote for each municipal office.
(1997 Code, § 1-713)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-558, 32-1033
§ 36.14 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A) Any or all of the elected officials of the municipality may be removed
from office by recall pursuant to Neb. RS 32-1301 to 32-1309.
   (B)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of the Election
Act. Each circulator of a recall petition shall be a registered voter and
qualified by his or her residence to vote for the office in question on the
date of the issuance of the initial petition papers.
   (C)   The petition papers shall be procured from the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer, who shall keep a sufficient number of such blank petition papers on
file for distribution. Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of
Neb. RS 32-1304. Prior to the issuance of such petition papers, an affidavit
shall be signed and filed with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer by at least one
registered voter. Such voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal
circulator or circulators of the recall petition. The affidavit shall state the
name and office of the official sought to be removed and shall request that the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the
principal circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be
gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
   (D)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, upon issuing the initial petition
papers or any subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept
in his or her office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to
whom the papers were issued, the date of issuance and the number of papers
issued. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall certify on the papers the name of
the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers were issued and the
date they were issued. No petition paper shall be accepted as part of the
petition unless it bears such certificate. The principal circulator or
circulators who check out petitions from the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer may
distribute such petitions to registered voters residing in the district who may
act as circulators of such petitions.
   (E)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of the Election
Act. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter and qualified
by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in question on the date
of the issuance of the initial petition papers.
   (F)   A petition demanding that the question of removing an elected official
be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by registered voters
equal in number to at least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the
last general election, except that for an office for which more than one
candidate is chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in
number to at least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the
most votes for such office in the last general election.
   (G)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one instrument,
all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature verification
with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days after the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer issues the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or
circulators. Within 15 days after the filing of the petition, the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting
his or her signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for signature verification. If the petition is found
to be sufficient, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall attach to the petition a
certificate showing the result of such examination. If the requisite number of
signatures has not been gathered, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall file the
petition in his or her office without prejudice to the filing of a new petition
for the same purpose.
   (H)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the governing
body that sufficient signatures have been gathered. If the official does not
resign within five days after receiving the notice, the governing body shall
order an election to be held not less than 30 nor more than 45 days after the
expiration of the five-day period, except that if any other election is to be
held in that district within 90 days of the expiration of the five-day period,
the governing body shall provide for the holding of the removal election on the
same day. After the governing body sets the date for the recall election, the
recall election shall be held regardless of whether the official whose removal
sought resigns before the recall election is held.
   (I)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against the
removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a tie,
the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term but
may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (K) below. If
a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the removal of the
official named on the ballot, her or she shall, regardless of any technical
defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless a recount
is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall result in a
vacancy in the office which shall filled as provided in §
32.32. If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall order a recount of the votes cast unless the
official named on the ballot files a written statement with the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer that he or she does not want a recount. If there are vacancies
in the offices of a majority or more of the members of the governing body at
one time due to the recall of such members, a special election to fill such
vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of
State, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
   (J)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of another member of the
governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   (K) No recall petition shall be filed against an elected official with 12
months after a recall petition has failed to remove him or her from office or
within six months after the beginning or his or her term of office or within
six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the office.
(1997 Code, § 1-715)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-1301 through 32-1309
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 37: FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
   
37.01   Fiscal year
   
37.02   Proposed budget statement; contents; filing
   
37.03   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of amount
to be received from taxation
   
37.04   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
37.05   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
   
37.06   Budget procedure
   
37.07   Appropriations
   
37.08   Property tax; certification of amount
   
37.09   Expenditures
   
37.10   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
37.11   Annual audit; financial statements
   
37.12   Claims
   
37.13   Warrants
   
37.14   Transfer of funds
   
37.15   Special assessment
   
37.16   Sinking funds
   
37.17   General Fund
   
37.18   Deposit of funds
   
37.19   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
37.20   Investment of funds
   
37.21   Bond issues
   
37.22   Motor vehicle tax
   
37.23   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
37.24   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
37.25   Property tax levy and request; authority to set
   
37.26   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
37.27   All-purpose levy; allocation; abandonment; extraordinary levies
 
   
37.99   Penalty
§ 37.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality and any public utility of the
municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30 except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS
18-2801 to 18-2808.
(1997 Code, § 1-801)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-701
§ 37.02 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; FILING.
   (A)   The governing body shall prepare in writing and file with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, not later than August 1 of each year on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts, a proposed budget
statement containing the following information, except as provided by state
law:
      (1)   For the immediate two prior fiscal years, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to each of the several funds and
separately stated as to each such source, and for each fund: the unencumbered
cash balance of such fund at the beginning and end of the year; the amount
received by taxation of personal and real property allocated to each fund; and
the amount of actual expenditure for each fund;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to each of the several funds
and separately stated as to each such source, and for each fund: the actual
unencumbered cash balance available for such fund at the beginning of the year;
the amount received from personal and real property taxation allocated to each
fund; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash reserve for each such fund
for each fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered.
Such cash reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of
prior years. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted
for such fund exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source, to be allocated to each of the several funds, and for each
fund: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever is
applicable, to be available at the beginning, of the year, the amounts proposed
to be expended during the year, and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual
experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total
budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the governing body; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a separate total for each fund, including each proprietary function
fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement prepared pursuant to
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total of all funds
maintained by the governing body; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement if a separate proprietary budget statement has been prepared
for such proprietary functions pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function
Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance of each fund
required to be included in the budget statement by this section shall include
deposits and investments of the municipality as well as any funds held by the
County Treasurer for the municipality and shall be accurately stated on the
proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement filed pursuant to this section. The amount to be
raised from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus
the estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and
the unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year.
(1997 Code, § 1-802) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 11-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-504, 13-505
§ 37.03 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT
TO BE RECEIVED FROM TAXATION.
   (A)   After the filing of the proposed budget statement with the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer, the governing body shall each year conduct a public hearing on
the proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality or by direct mailing of the notice to each
resident within the municipality.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of such
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted, or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately:
      (1)   The amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the governing body; and
      (2)   The amount to be received for all other purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for such changes.
   (D)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(1997 Code, § 1-803) (Ord. 1998-09, passed 11-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-506, 13-507
§ 37.04 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the governing body shall file with and
certify to the levying board on or before September 20 of each year and file
with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the adopted budget statement,
together with the amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget,
setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the governing body; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The governing body, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation
shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who
or which filed a similar action for the preceding year which is still pending.
Except for such allowances, the governing body shall not certify an amount of
tax more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined in the proposed
budget statement.
   (C)   The governing body may designate one of its members to perform any
duty or responsibility required of such body by this section.
(1997 Code, § 1-804) (Ord. 1998-10, passed 11-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508
§ 37.05 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, the governing body
may prepare a proprietary budget statement for its proprietary functions
separate and apart from its municipal budget statement prepared pursuant to the
Nebraska Budget Act. For purposes of this section, PROPRIETARY FUNCTION shall
mean a water supply or distribution utility, a wastewater collection or
treatment utility, an electric generation, transmission or distribution
utility, a gas supply, transmission or distribution utility, an integrated
solid waste management collection, disposal or handling utility, or a hospital
or a nursing home owned by the municipality.
   (B)   The governing body may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the municipality’s General Fund shall have the same
fiscal year as the municipality. For purposes of this section, SUBSIDIZATION
shall mean that the costs of operation of a proprietary function are regularly
financed by appropriations from the municipality’s General Fund in excess of
the amount paid by the municipality to the proprietary function for actual
service or services received.
   (C)   (1)   If the municipality does not include its proprietary functions
in its municipal budget statement, a proposed proprietary statement shall be
prepared in writing on forms provided by the State Auditor and filed with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, at least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal
year of each proprietary function, containing the following information:
         (a)   For the immediate two prior fiscal years, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   Such statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall whether or not such reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
   (D)   (1)   After the proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with
the Municipal Clerk- Treasurer, the governing body shall conduct a public
hearing on such statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a
summary of the proposed proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full
proposed proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer during normal business hours, shall be published at
least five days prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation
within the governing body’s jurisdiction or by mailing each resident within the
governing body’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   After such hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written report shall be
kept of such hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer within 20 days after its adoption and published in a newspaper
of general circulation within the governing body’s jurisdiction or by mailing
to each resident within the governing body’s jurisdiction.
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the governing body shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of such fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for such fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the governing body’s jurisdiction or by mailing to
each resident within the governing body’s jurisdiction. If the difference
between the adopted proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the
actual expenditures and revenues for such fiscal year is greater than 10%, the
proprietary function reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a
public hearing.
   (F)   Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the
General Fund of the municipality shall be shown as a source of revenue in the
municipal budget statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act.
(1997 Code, § 1-805)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2803 to 18-2808
§ 37.06 BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(1997 Code, § 1-806)
§ 37.07 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The governing body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(1997 Code, § 1-807)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-706
§ 37.08 PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The governing body shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the municipality which the
municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed and collected shall not require a tax levy in excess of the
amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(1997 Code, § 1-808) (Ord. 1998-11, passed 11-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 37.09 EXPENDITURES.
   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue or draw any
order or warrant on the municipal treasury for money, unless the same has been
appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement to be
paid for out of the General Fund of the municipality shall exceed in any one
year the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget statement.
(1997 Code, § 1-809)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-708
§ 37.10 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the municipality, no contract for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when
the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property,
costing over $20,000 shall be made unless it is first approved by the governing
body.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing body
makes any contract in excess of $20,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of such
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the governing
body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $20,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of such
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for such enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   Twenty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Forty thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   Eighty thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the municipality and, if there is no
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the municipality,
then in some newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the municipality is located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the municipality is located, then
in a newspaper, designated by the County Board, having a general circulation
within the county where bids are required, and if no newspaper is published in
the municipality or county, or if no newspaper has general circulation in the
county, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three
public places in the municipality at least seven days prior to the bid closing.
In case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases,
destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity
or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of, or serious injury or damage to, life, health or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the
governing body and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the Mayor and City Council may negotiate a contract in an attempt to
complete the proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost
commensurate with the estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the purchasing municipality, the governing body may
authorize the manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may thereafter
approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
   (H)   Any municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 to 81-162;
or
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule charter, a
municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any county,
a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property without
competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established by the
Federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services. For purposes of this division (I):
      (1)   PERSONAL PROPERTY includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board or other agency; and
      (2)   PURCHASING or PURCHASE means the obtaining of personal property by
sale, lease or other contractual means.
(1997 Code, § 1-810) (Ord. 1998-17, passed 11-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-568.02, 18-1756
§ 37.11 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   The governing body shall cause an audit of the municipal accounts to be made
by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of
the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the governing body. The said audit shall be completed, and the
annual audit report made not later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year. The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
copies of the audit report to the governing body. All public utilities or other
enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be audited
separately, and the results of such audits shall appear separately in the
annual audit report, and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall
contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted accounting
principles. The audit report shall set forth the financial position and results
of financial operations for each fund or group of accounts of the municipality
as well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial
statements. Two copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, and shall become a part of the public records of the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s office, and will at all times thereafter be open
for public inspection. One copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public
Accounts. Every governing body that is required herein to submit to an audit of
its accounts shall provide and file with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, not
later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing its actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(1997 Code, § 1-811)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2901 through 19-2909, 13-606
§ 37.12 CLAIMS.
   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the governing body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the governing body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order or warrant
shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which
it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the municipal treasury
for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn; provided, that in the
event there exists obligated funds from the federal and/or state government for
the general purpose of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the purpose for which
said warrant is drawn.
(1997 Code, § 1-812)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-714, 17-715
§ 37.13 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the municipal treasury must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, stating the particular fund
to which the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable and the
purpose of the expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants
so drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for the fund upon which it is drawn, and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(1997 Code, § 1-813)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-711
§ 37.14 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   The governing body may, whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent due to unforeseen emergencies that there is temporarily insufficient
money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted budget of
expenditures for that fund, by a majority vote transfer money from other funds
to such fund. No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of
the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized
herein. If, as the result of unforeseen circumstances, the revenue of the
current fiscal year shall be insufficient, the governing body may propose to
supplement the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing at which time any taxpayer may appear, or file a written statement
protesting the application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings. Notice of a place, and time for the said hearing shall be
published at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. The published notice
shall set forth the time, and place of the proposed hearing, the amount of
additional money required, the purpose of the required money, a statement
setting forth the reasons why the adopted budget of expenditures cannot be
reduced to meet the need for additional money, and a copy of the summary of the
originally adopted budget previously published. Upon the conclusion of the
public hearing on the proposed supplemental budget, and the approval by the
governing body, the governing body shall file with the County Clerk and the
Nebraska State Auditor a copy of the supplemental budget, and shall certify the
amount of additional tax to be levied. The governing body may then issue
warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted supplemental
budget. The said warrants shall be referred to as “registered warrants,” and
shall be repaid during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes
levied therefor.
(1997 Code, § 1-814)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-510, 13-511
§ 37.15 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the
improvement for which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for
no other purpose unless to reimburse the municipality for money expended for
any such improvement.
(1997 Code, § 1-815)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-710
§ 37.16 SINKING FUNDS.
   The governing body, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall have
the power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by state law upon the
assessed value of all taxable property within the municipality for a term not
to exceed that prescribed by state law in addition to the amount of tax which
may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement of the
municipality, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension or repair of the approved uses
as authorized by state law. To initiate the said sinking fund, the governing
body shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified
electors of the municipality the proposition to provide the improvement at the
next general municipal election. The resolution shall set forth the
improvement, the estimated cost, the amount of the annual levy, the number of
years required to provide the required revenue, the name of the sinking fund
proposed and the proposition as it will appear on the ballot. Notice of the
said proposition shall be published in its entirety three times on successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality. The sinking fund may be established after the
election if a majority or more of the legal votes were in favor of the
establishment of the fund. The governing body may then proceed to establish the
said fund in conformity with the provisions of the proposition, and applicable
state law. The funds received by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall, as they
accumulate, be immediately invested with the written approval of the governing
body in the manner provided by state law. No sinking fund so established shall
be used for any purpose or purposes contrary to the purpose as it appeared on
the ballot unless the governing body is authorized to do so by 60% of the
qualified electors of the municipality voting at a general election favoring
such a change in the use of the Sinking Fund.
(1997 Code, § 1-816)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1301 through 19-1304, 77-
2337, 77-2339
§ 37.17 GENERAL FUND.
   All money not specifically appropriated in the annual appropriation bill
shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
(1997 Code, § 1-817)
§ 37.18 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The governing body, at its first meeting in each fiscal year, shall
designate some one or more banks or capital stock financial institutions of
approved and responsible standing in which the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall
keep at all times, subject to payment on his or her demand, all money held by
him or her as Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. If there is one or more banks or
capital stock financial institutions located in the municipality which apply
for the privilege of keeping such money and give bond or give security for the
repayment of deposits as provided in this section, such banks or capital stock
financial institutions shall be selected as such depositories. The Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer shall not give a preference to any one or more of them in the
money he or she may so deposit.
   (B)   (1)   The governing body shall require from all banks or capital stock
financial institutions:
         (a)   A bond in such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit
at any time less the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation; or in lieu thereof
         (b)   Security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security
Act to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions.
      (2)   The governing body shall approve such bond or giving of security.
The Municipal Clerk- Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money
sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and
approved. The fact that a stockholder, director or other officer of such bank
or capital stock financial institution is also serving as Mayor, as a member of
the governing body, or as any other officer of the municipality shall not
disqualify such bank or capital stock financial institution from acting as a
depository for such municipal funds.
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks or capital stock
financial institutions through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall
be deemed and construed to be a surety bond to the extent that the deposits are
insured by such corporation. For deposits so insured, no other surety bond or
other security shall be required. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply
to deposits in capital stock financial institutions.
   (D)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer may deposit the funds received and held
by him or her, by virtue of such office, with a cooperative credit association
situated within the boundaries of the county, or a county adjoining thereto,
where the municipality is situated, if the municipality is the depositor, as
well as in a commercial state or national bank if the cooperative credit
association performs all the conditions precedent required by the laws of this
state of commercial state and national banks to qualify them to receive
deposits of such public funds. It shall not be necessary for the municipality,
in making such a deposit of public funds, to purchase shares in such
cooperative credit association or become a member thereof, and such a
cooperative credit association is hereby authorized and empowered to receive
such money under such conditions.
(1997 Code, § 1-818) (Ord. 1998-15, passed 11-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-607, 77-2362 through 77-
2364,
    77-2386 through 77-2397
§ 37.19 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and
City Council authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and
make time deposits in any bank or capital stock financial institution in the
State of Nebraska to the extent that such certificates of deposit or time
deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may
be made in excess of the amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount
of the excess deposit shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the
manner provided in this section. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply
to deposits in capital stock financial institutions.
   (B)   For the security of the fund so deposited, the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall require each depository to give bond for the safekeeping and
payment of such deposits and the accretions thereof, which bond shall run to
the municipality and be approved by the Mayor. The bond shall be conditioned
that such a depository shall, at the end of every quarter, render to the Clerk-
Treasurer a statement in duplicate, showing the several daily balances, the
amount of money of the municipality held by it during the quarter, the amount
of the accretion thereto, and how credited. The bond shall also be conditioned
that the depository shall generally do and perform whatever may be required by
the provisions of this section and all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the governing body for the receiving and holding thereof and shall faithfully
discharge the trust reposed in the depository. The bond shall be as nearly as
practicable in the form provided in Neb. RS 77-2304. No person in any way
connected with any depository as an officer or stockholder shall be accepted as
a surety on any bond given by the depository of which he or she is an officer
or stockholder. The bond shall be deposited with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   In lieu of the bond required by division (B) above, any bank or
capital stock financial institution making application to become a depository
may give security as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act to the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The penal sum of such bond shall be equal to or
greater than the amount of the deposit in excess of that portion of such
deposit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall not have on deposit in any bank or capital
stock financial institution at any time more than the amount insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation plus the maximum amount of the bond given
by the bank or capital stock financial institution if the bank or capital stock
financial institution gives a surety bond, nor in any bank or capital stock
financial institution giving a personal bond, more than the amount insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation plus one-half of the amount of the
bond of such bank or capital stock financial institution, and the amount so on
deposit any time with any such bank or capital stock financial institution
shall not in either case exceed the amount insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation plus the paid-up capital stock and surplus of such bank
or capital stock financial institution. The Clerk-Treasurer shall not be liable
for any loss sustained by reason of the failure of any such bonded depository
whose bond has been duly approved by the Mayor as provided in division (B)
above or which has, in lieu of a surety bond, given security as provided in
division (C) above.
(1997 Code, § 1-818.01) (Ord. 1998-16, passed 11-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-720
§ 37.20 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever the municipality has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of
its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its
bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay
the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the governing body may invest any such surplus in certificates of
deposit, in time deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment
Officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized investment
guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date the
investment is made.
(1997 Code, § 1-819)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-608, 17-609, 77-2341
§ 37.21 BOND ISSUES.
   (A)   The governing body may, after meeting all the requirements of state
law, issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be
permitted by state law.
   (B)   The governing body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds, and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(1997 Code, § 1-820)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 10-209 through 10-411, 10-606
through 10-612, 12-1001, 17-529.01, 17-529.08, 17-534, 17-905, 17-908, 17-911,
17-939, 17-958, 17-968, 18-1801 through 18-1805, 23-343.13, 39-836
§ 37.22 MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
   The governing body may levy a tax on all motor vehicles owned or used in the
municipality, which tax shall be paid to the County Treasurer when the
registration fees as provided in Neb. RS 60-329 to 60-339 are paid. Such taxes
shall be credited by the County Treasurer to the Road Fund of the municipality.
Such funds shall be used by the municipality for constructing, resurfacing,
maintaining or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways or parts thereof,
for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for such purposes.
(1997 Code, § 1-821)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1214
§ 37.23 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The municipality may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to Neb. RS 45-601 to 45-622, within or without this state, for the
purpose of collecting public debts owed by any person to the municipality.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last-known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, DEBT shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes or real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(1997 Code, § 1-822)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 45-623
§ 37.24 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall collect the special assessments which it levies
and perform all other necessary functions related thereto including
foreclosure. Notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last-known address of the person against whom such
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying such special assessments. Failure to receive such notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay such special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (B)   The municipality shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(1997 Code, § 1-823)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1216
§ 37.25 PROPERTY TAX LEVY AND REQUEST; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement and
within the time prescribed by law, the governing body shall file with the
levying board on or before October 14 of each year and file with the Auditor of
Public Accounts a certified copy of any resolution passed setting a tax levy
which shall not exceed the maximum levy prescribed by state law and a statement
reconciling the levy set by the governing body with the adopted budget
statement filed as otherwise required by law. The levy shall be set to fund
property tax requirements in the adopted budget to four to eight places to the
right of the decimal point. The governing body shall use the final adjusted
values as provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the
current year in setting or certifying the levy. The governing body may
designate one of its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of
such body by this division (A).
   (B)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the governing body passes by a
majority vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different
amount. Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special
public hearing called for such purpose is held and after notice is published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the municipality at least
five days prior to the hearing. The hearing notice shall contain the following
information: the dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request; the property tax rate
that would be necessary to fund last year’s tax request if applied to the
current year’s valuation; and the proposed dollar amount of the tax request for
the current year and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that
tax request. Any resolution setting a tax request under this division (B) shall
be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk prior to October 14 of the year
for which the tax request is to apply. Any tax levy which is not in compliance
with this division (B) and Neb. RS 77-1601 shall be construed as an
unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(1997 Code, § 1-824) (Ord. 1998-13, passed 11-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508, 77-1601.02
§ 37.26 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the municipality for fiscal
years beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set
forth in this division (A) except as provided in division (C) below. The
municipality may levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of
property subject to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable
valuation to provide financing for the municipality’s share of revenue required
under an agreement or agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal
Cooperation Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums
to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-
501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse or home health agency pursuant
to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial or monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202.
Property tax levies for judgments obtained against the municipality which
require or obligate the municipality to pay such judgment, to the extent such
judgment is not paid by liability insurance coverage of the municipality, for
preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, and for
bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on property
are not included in the levy limits established by this division (A). The
limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all
other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law, and off-street parking districts established
under the Off-street Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the municipality and are counted in
the municipality’s levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such
limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, and for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property. The governing body
shall review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political
subdivisions subject to this division (B). The governing body may approve all
or a portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request that would
allow a levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the
municipality may be exceeded as provided in division (C) below. On or before
August 1, all political subdivisions subject to municipal levy authority under
this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for levy allocation to the
governing body. The preliminary request of the political subdivision shall be
in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of members present of
the political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a political
subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude such political
subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to exceed the
final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (2)   The governing body shall:
         (a)   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
         (b)   Forward a copy of such resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
      (3)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1 except
by agreement between both the governing body and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
   (C)   (1)   The municipality may exceed the limits provided in division (A)
above by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of
registered voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election
at which the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the
limits must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be
the first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The governing body may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the governing body and delivering
a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the municipality; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the municipality
requesting an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing
in the municipality.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election. The County Clerk
or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as
called for in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after
receipt of the resolution or petition. The election shall be held pursuant to
the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be in the form as
provided in Neb. RS 32-628 to 32-631. Any excess levy authority approved under
this division (C) shall terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the
governing body to terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the
end of the fourth fiscal year following the first year in which the levy
exceeded the limit, or as provided in division (D) below, whichever is
earliest. The governing body may pass no more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. There
shall be no limit on the number of elections held pursuant to this division (C)
which are initiated by petition. The ballot question may include any terms and
conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444. If a majority of the votes cast upon the
ballot question are in favor of such tax, the County Board shall authorize a
tax in excess of the limits in division (A) above, but such tax shall not
exceed the amount stated in the ballot question. If a majority of those voting
on the ballot question are opposed to such tax, the governing body shall not
impose such tax. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner may set a uniform
date for a special election to be held before October 10, 1998, to submit the
issue of exceeding the limits provided in Neb. RS 77-3442 or the final levy
allocation as provided in Neb. RS 77-3443 to the voters of political
subdivisions in the county seeking additional levy authority. The municipality
may individually or in conjunction with one or more other political
subdivisions conduct a special election on a date different from that set by
the County Clerk or Election Commissioner, except that the governing body shall
pass a resolution calling for a special election for this purpose and deliver a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner no later
than 30 days prior to the date of the election.
   (D)   (1)   The municipality may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
      (2)   The governing body may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the governing
body and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the municipality; or
         (b)   Upon request of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the municipality
requesting an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing
in the municipality.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either such excess levy authority will be rescinded or such excess levy
authority will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the
amount and duration of such modification shall be stated. The modification
shall not have a duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election
Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for
in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(1997 Code, § 1-825) (Ord. 1998-12, passed 11-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 77-3442 through 77-3444
§ 37.27 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES.
   (A)   The governing body has decided to certify to the County Clerk for
collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by taxation for all
municipal purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific
purposes added together. Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the all-
purpose levy shall not exceed the annual levy specified in Neb. RS 19-1309 to
be levied upon the taxable valuation of all taxable property in the
municipality.
   (B)   The amount of the all-purpose levy shall be certified as a single
amount for General Fund purposes. The governing body shall allocate the amount
raised by the all-purpose levy to the several departments of the municipality
in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as
the governing body deems wisest and best.
   (C)   The municipality shall be bound by its election to follow the all-
purpose levy method during the ensuing fiscal year but may abandon such method
in succeeding fiscal years.
   (D)   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the municipality may be made by the municipality in addition to
the all-purpose levy.
(1997 Code, § 1-826) (Ord. 1998-14, passed 11-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1309 through 19-1312
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 1-1001)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Utility bills; collection
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.03   Diversion of services, unauthorized use of services, unauthorized
reconnection, prohibited; evidence
   
50.04   Lien
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 UTILITY BILLS; COLLECTION.
   Charges for water, sewer, electric and solid waste collection services shall
be billed jointly on a monthly basis. Utility bills shall be mailed on the
first day of each month, and shall be due and payable by the tenth day of each
month. Bills not paid by the twentieth day of each month shall be deemed to be
delinquent and shall have a penalty charge of 10% added thereto. Upon being
deemed to be delinquent as herein defined, the municipality may discontinue
service pursuant to §
50.02. Once discontinued, service shall not be recommenced except upon payment
in full of all delinquent and current charges and upon further payment of a
reconnection fee in an amount set by Council from time to time. The
municipality may also take any action authorized by law to effect collection of
the delinquent charges.
(1997 Code, § 3-401) (Ord. 2000-04, passed 10-17-2000; Ord. 2016-02, passed 4-
19-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542, 17-925.01, 70-1605
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to discontinue utility services
and remove its properties if the charges for such services are not paid within
seven days after the date that the charges become delinquent. Before any
termination, the municipality shall first give notice by first-class mail or in
person or by electronic delivery, to any domestic subscriber whose service is
proposed to be terminated. If notice is given by first-class mail, such mail
shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Electronic delivery shall
be only used in such cases where a subscriber has specifically authorized its
use in writing to the municipality. Service shall not be discontinued for at
least seven days, weekends and holidays excluded, after notice is sent or
given.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber pays the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber's right, within three days after mailing of
the notice, to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed
disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the municipality may not disconnect service
pending the conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   That the cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (8)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (9)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section which
has received, prior approval from the governing body.
   (C)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the municipality with a written statement within three
days after mailing of the notice that sets forth the reasons for the dispute
and the relief requested. If a statement has been made by the subscriber, a
conference shall be held before the municipality may discontinue services.
(1997 Code, § 3-402) (Ord. 2016-02, passed 4-19-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, UNAUTHORIZED USE OF SERVICES, UNAUTHORIZED
RECONNECTION, PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Any person who connects any instrument, device or contrivance with any
wire supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or
connects any pipe or conduit supplying water, without the knowledge and consent
of the municipality, in such manner that any portion thereof may be supplied to
any instrument by or at which electricity, electric current or water may be
consumed without passing through the meter provided for measuring or
registering the amount or quantity thereof passing through it, and any person
who knowingly uses or knowingly permits the use of electricity, electric
current or water obtained in the above mentioned unauthorized ways, shall be
deemed guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any person who willfully injures, alters or by any instrument, device
or contrivance in any manner interferes with or obstructs the action or
operation of any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount
or quantity of electricity or water passing through it, without the knowledge
and consent of the municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (C)   When electrical or water service has been disconnected pursuant to
Neb. RS 70-1601 to 70-1615 or §
50.02, any person who reconnects such service without the knowledge and consent
of the municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (D)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration or obstruction of a meter, as
provided in this section, shall be taken as prima facie evidence of the guilt
of the person in possession of the premises where such connection,
reconnection, injury, alteration or obstruction is proved to exist.
(1997 Code, § 3-403) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 86-329 through 86-331
§ 50.04 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for utilities service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
utility rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for
which the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall notify in
writing or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their
agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the
payment of the utilities rent. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for
utilities service together with a description of the premises served. The
report shall be examined, and if approved by the governing body, shall be
certified by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to the County Clerk to be collected
as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(1997 Code, § 3-405)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538, 17-925.01, 18-503
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 3-901)
   (B)   (1)   (a)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages
against any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts:
            1.   Bypassing;
            2.   Tampering; or
            3.   Unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
municipal utility.
         (b)   A municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to
this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the
municipality shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering or unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)
(b)above, the municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs
incurred on account of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
including, but not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls,
equipment, costs of the suit and reasonable attorney fees in cases within the
scope of Neb. RS 25-1801.
      (4)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or occupant
at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven
to exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering or unauthorized
metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (6)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
      (7)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws and the
remedies provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of
any other civil or criminal statutory or common law remedies.
(1997 Code, § 3-404)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Water Department
   
51.01   Operation and funding
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Consumer’s application
   
51.04   Service to nonresidents
   
51.05   Water contract
   
51.06   Installation procedure
   
51.07   Installation expense
   
51.08   Repairs and maintenance
   
51.09   Fees and collections
   
51.10   Minimum rates
   
51.11   Single premises
   
51.12   Restricted use
   
51.13   Fire hydrants
   
51.14   Pollution
   
51.15   Water service contracts
   
51.16   Inspection
   
51.17   Destruction of property
   
51.18   Backflow prevention devices required; customer installation and
maintenance testing
   
51.19   Unsafe physical connection to water distribution system prohibited;
potential backflow hazards; customer assessment
   
51.20   Fluoride
Water Wells
   
51.35   Location of wells
   
51.36   Wellhead capture zone
 
   
51.99   Penalty
WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 51.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the Municipal Water
Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of
the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
direct management and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall
faithfully carry out the duties of his or her office. The Utilities
Superintendent shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
sanitary and efficient management of the Water Department subject to the
supervision and review of the governing body. The governing body shall set the
rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of
the rates in the office of the Municipal Clerk- Treasurer for public inspection
during office hours.
(1997 Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, 19-1305
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(1997 Code, § 3-102)
§ 51.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. The Superintendent may require any
applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the
governing body and placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer. Water may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe
except upon the order of the Utilities Superintendent.
(1997 Code, § 3-103)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.04 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body; provided,
the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall be paid by
the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
provide water service to nonresidents.
(1997 Code, § 3-104)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 51.05 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and water
rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premises or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to said building, premises or place shall
again be made except by order of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(1997 Code, § 3-105) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by
the Utilities Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when
connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The
second inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the
service is restored. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations and specifications prescribed for such installation
by the Utilities Superintendent; provided that the said rules, regulations and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing body.
(1997 Code, § 3-106) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.07 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of providing water service from the water main in the street to
the property line but not to exceed 150 feet from the main shall be paid by the
municipality. The consumer shall then pay the cost of installation and pipe
from the lot line to the place of disbursement as well as any required tap fee
and or meter deposit. The consumer shall be required to pay the expense of
procuring the services of a plumber and shall pay the necessary labor to bring
water service from said lot line to the place of disbursement.
(1997 Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 51.08 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all supply
pipe between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer at his or her
own expense shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the stop box
to the place of dispersement. When leaks occur in service pipes, the Utilities
Superintendent shall shut off water service until the leak is repaired at the
expense of the customer to the satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent.
All water meters shall be kept in repair by the municipality at the expense of
the municipality. When meters are worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by
the municipality at the expense of the municipality; provided, that if the
customer permits or allows a water meter to be damaged, injured or destroyed
through his or her own recklessness, carelessness or neglect so that the meter
must be repaired or replaced, the Utilities Superintendent shall bill and
collect from the customer the cost of such meter repair or replacement in the
same manner as water rent is collected. Permitting a water meter to be damaged
or destroyed by freezing shall always be considered negligence on the part of
the customer. All meters shall be tested at the customer’s request at the
expense of the customer any reasonable number of times; provided, that if the
test shows the water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such
test shall be borne by the municipality. The municipality reserves the right to
test any water service meter at any time, and if said meter is found to be
beyond repair, the municipality shall always have the right to place a new
meter on the customer’s water service fixtures at municipal expense. Should a
consumer’s meter fail to register properly, the customer shall be charged for
water during the time the meter is out of repair on the basis of the monthly
consumption during the same month of the preceding year; provided, that if no
such basis for comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as
may be reasonably fixed by the Utilities Superintendent. It shall be unlawful
for any person to tamper with any water meter, or by any means or device to
divert water from the service pipe so that the same shall not pass through said
meter, or while passing through said meter, to cause the same to register
inaccurately.
(1997 Code, § 3-108) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.09 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All such
fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall bill the consumers and
collect all money received by the municipality on the account of the Water
Department.
(1997 Code, § 3-109)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-540
§ 51.10 MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Utilities Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case
he or she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is
turned on again.
(1997 Code, § 3-110)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 51.11 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or
attachment without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent. It
shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by
means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so
that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said
meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(1997 Code, § 3-111) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.12 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(1997 Code, § 3-112)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.13 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(1997 Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.14 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(1997 Code, § 3-114) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 51.15 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
water service to be shut off at the said premises. If the consumer should fail
to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on the said
premises until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(1997 Code, § 3-115)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.16 INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(1997 Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.17 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(1997 Code, § 3-117) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED; CUSTOMER INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE TESTING.
   (A)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department may be required by the
Utilities Superintendent to install and maintain a properly located backflow
prevention device at his or her expense appropriate to the potential hazards
set forth in Title 179, Nebraska Department of Health, and approved by the
Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The customer shall make application to the Utilities Superintendent to
install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by the
municipality. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address
of the applicant, the potential hazard, the type of protection required and the
type of backflow device to be installed including brand and model number.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall approve or disapprove the
application based on his or her opinion of whether such installation will
protect the municipal water distribution system from potential backflow and
backsiphonage hazards.
   (D)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other sections
of this code dealing with installation of plumbing, including the use of a
plumber licensed by the municipality if applicable.
   (E)   Such customer shall also certify to the municipality at least one time
annually that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a Nebraska
Department of Health Grade VI certified water operator if the device is
equipped with a test port. Such certification shall be made on a form available
at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Any decision of the Utilities Superintendent may be appealed to the
governing body. A water service not in compliance with divisions (A) through
(E) above may be suspended by the Utilities Superintendent until such time as
the service is again in compliance.
(1997 Code, § 3-118) (Ord. 2007-09, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.19 UNSAFE PHYSICAL CONNECTION TO WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM PROHIBITED;
POTENTIAL BACKFLOW HAZARDS; CUSTOMER ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   No customer or other person shall cause, allow or create any physical
connection between the municipal water distribution system and any pipes,
pumps, hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat
exchangers, other water supplies or any other connection whereby potentially
unsafe or contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the municipal
water distribution system.
   (B)   At least one time every five years, customers of the municipal water
distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report potential
backflow and backsiphonage hazards to the municipality on a form supplied by
the municipality to the customer. The customer shall take any steps necessary
for protection of public health and safety as determined by the Utilities
Superintendent.
(1997 Code, § 3-119) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 FLUORIDE.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water system of the city.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 5-8-2012)
WATER WELLS
§ 51.35 LOCATION OF WELLS.
   (A)   The intent of this section is to establish control by the city over
the location of future potential sources of contamination within the proximity
of the city’s drinking water system so as to prevent or minimize any hazard to
the safety of the city’s drinking water.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, WATER WELL shall mean any excavation
that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug, jetted or otherwise
constructed for the purpose of exploring for ground water, monitoring ground
water, utilizing the geothermal properties of the ground or extracting water
from or injecting water into the underground water reservoir. Water well shall
not include any excavation made for obtaining or prospecting for oil, natural
gas, minerals or products mined or quarried or inserting media to repressure
oil or natural gas bearing formation.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA shall mean the
property described as:
      The south half (S1/2) of section one (1); the south half of section two
(2) east of Highway 283; all of section eleven (11) east of Highway 283; all of
section twelve (12); all of section thirteen (13); section fourteen (14) east
of Highway 283; the north half of north half (N1/2N1/2) of section twenty-three
east of Highway 283; and the north half of north half of north half of section
twenty-four (24) all in Township Five (5) North, Range Twenty Three (23) West,
of the 6th P.M., Gosper County, Nebraska.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to place, maintain, construct or replace any of
the following structures or conduct any of the following activities within the
wellhead protection area:
      (1)   Water well;
      (2)   Sewage lagoon;
      (3)   Cesspool;
      (4)   Dump;
      (5)   Feedlot or feedlot runoff;
      (6)   Corral;
      (7)   Chemical storage;
      (8)   Petroleum storage;
      (9)   Pit toilet;
      (10)   Sanitary landfill;
      (11)   Septic tank;
      (12)   Sewage treatment plant;
      (13)   Sewage wet well; and
      (14)   Absorption or disposal field for waste.
   (E)   The governing body may consider allowing placement of water wells, as
defined by Nebraska regulations governing public water supply systems (Title
179, NAC 2) and Nebraska regulations governing water well construction, pump
installation and water well abandonment standards (Title 178, NAC 12) as
amended from time to time, closer to a municipal water well than the
limitations set forth in division (C) above. Closer placement shall be allowed
only under the following conditions.
      (1)   (a)   An application must first be filed with the city showing the
type of water well to be installed, the materials used, the operation of the
proposed unit and the person responsible for the actual installation of the
water well. Preference, for approval, will be given to installations that do
not disturb any water-bearing strata.
         (b)   The city shall refer the application to its Engineer for
evaluation and report. The estimated cost of the Engineer’s fees must be paid
at the time of filing the application. Any additional costs, which are
reasonably incurred by the Engineer in making his or her examination and
report, shall be paid by the applicant, in addition to any previously paid
estimated costs.
      (2)   (a)   The governing body shall consider the Engineer’s report and
any additional information submitted by the applicant. In reaching its decision
on whether to allow the placement of a water well, as above defined, the
governing body must act to prevent all sources of possible or likely water
contamination.
         (b)   If the governing body approves the installation, it shall submit
the application, together with the Engineer’s report, to the Department of
Health of the State of Nebraska for final approval or denial.
         (c)   No installation shall be made without the approval of both the
governing body and the Department of Health of the State of Nebraska.
   (F)   Water wells in existence and use, as of the effective date of this
section, shall continue to be permitted unless such continued existence or use
presents a hazard to the quality or quantity of the drinking water available
for public use to the city’s drinking water. The owner of any water well shall
have the burden of establishing the existence and use of such well at the time
of the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 3-5-2002; Ord. 2004-01, passed 1-20-2004; Ord. 2007-07,
passed 9-18-2007) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.36 WELLHEAD CAPTURE ZONE.
   (A)   (1)   Neb. RS 17-536 provides that the jurisdiction of such city to
prevent any pollution of injury to the stream or source of water for the supply
of such waterworks, shall extend 15 miles beyond its corporate limits.
      (2)   The municipal water well of the city and the site for a future
municipal water well are located more that one mile beyond the corporate limits
of the city but within 15 miles of the city, and specifically within the
following described parcel of the real estate:
         East Half of the Northwest Quarter (E1/2NE1/4), the Northeast Quarter
(NE1/4), the North Half of the Southeast Quarter (N1/2SE1/4) of Section Twenty-
two (22) and the West Half of the Southwest Quarter (W1/2SW1/4) of Section
Fourteen (14), the West Half of the Northwest Quarter (W1/2NW1/4) of Section
Twenty-three (23) and the Southeast Quarter (SE1/4) Section Fifteen (15) all in
Township Four (4) North, Range Twenty-three (23), West of the 6th P.M. Furnas
County, Nebraska.
      (3)   Neb. RS 17-536 grants authority to the City Council to the city to
find that it is in the best interest of and serves the public’s purpose for
there to be regulations governing and controlling the use of land within
specified areas around the municipal water supply of the city so as to prevent
any pollution or injury to the source of water which supplies the municipal
water system.
      (4)   The Nebraska Safe Drinking Water Act, Neb. RS 17-536 et seq.,
authorizes the State of Nebraska, through its Director of the Nebraska
Department of Health and Human Services, to promulgate rules and regulations
regarding location of the public water supply and the location of potential
sources of pollution or injury which may adversely affect the quality of water
from such supply systems, which rules and regulations are applicable to the
public water supply systems of the city.
      (5)   Title 179, Chapter 2, Regulations Governing Public Water Supply
Systems promulgated by the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services set
forth, in § 008,02 that “All public water supply systems shall adopt and carry
out a preventive maintenance program...to protect the systems and its
components from encroachments which are likely hazards to the safety of the
drinking water quality, or which could have a substantial impact on the system
pressure or economies delivered by the system.”
      (6)   The Lower Republican Natural Resources District, a political
subdivision of the State of Nebraska, which encompasses the city and the area
adjacent to the existing and future municipal water wells of the city, has,
pursuant to applicable statutes of the State of Nebraska, developed a Ground
Water Management Plan, which, as it pertains to the city, includes and
delineates wellhead capture zones for the existing municipal wells of the City
of Arapahoe, Nebraska.
      (7)   Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the State of Nebraska,
Department of Health and Human Services, and the Lower Republican NRD, the
following areas are areas in which there exists the need for regulations
regarding the location of existing and future potential sources of pollution or
injury to the public water supply of the city:
         (a)   All of Section 8-4-23;
         (b)   All of Section 9-4-23;
         (c)   The South Half of Section 10-4-23;
         (d)   The Northwest Quarter of Section 14-4-23;
         (e)   The North Half and the Northwest Quarter of the Southwest
Quarter 1.4-4-23;
         (f)   The East Half of the Southwest Quarter 14-4-23;
         (g)   The North Half of Section 15-4-23;
         (h)   Southwest Quarter of Section 15-4-23;
         (i)   All of Section 16-4-23;
         (j)   All of Section 17-4-23;
         (k)   The North Half of Section 20-4-23;
         (l)   The Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 20-4-
23;
         (m)   All of Section 21-4-23;
         (n)   The West Half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 22-3-23;
         (o)   The Southwest Quarter of Section 22-4-23;
         (p)   The South Half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 22-4-23;
         (q)   The East Half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 23-4-23;
         (r)   The Southwest Quarter of Section 23-4-23;
         (s)   The North Half of the North Half of Section 27-4-23; and
         (t)   The North Half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 28-4-23,
hereinafter called the wellhead capture zone.
   (B)   The findings made in division (A) above should be and are hereby made
a part of this section as fully as is set out at length herein.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, certain terms or words used herein shall
be interpreted as contained within this section. The present tense includes the
future tense; the singular number includes the plural and the plural number
includes the singular. Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used
in this section shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as
they have in common usage and so as to give the section its most reasonable
application.
      CHEMICAL OR PETROLEUM PRODUCT STORAGE. The storage of chemical and/or
petroleum products for which a permit is required from the Nebraska Department
of Environmental Quality, or its successor.
      FEEDLOT.
         (a)   The feeding, farrowing or raising of cattle, swine, sheep,
poultry or other livestock, in a confined acres where grazing is not possible,
where confinement is for more than six months in any one calendar year, and
where the number of animals so maintained exceeds the animal units per acre as
defined below. The term FEEDLOT shall include, but not be limited to, the area
of the confined feeding operation, the pens, corrals, sheds, buildings, feed
storage areas, waste disposal ponds and related facilities.
         (b)   ANIMAL UNITS (AU) are as follows:
1 Steer @ 1000#’s                                     = 1 AU
3.3 Sows                                                = 1 AU
3.3 Hogs                                                = 1 AU
5 Nursery pigs                                          = 1 AU
0.5 Horses/donkeys                                      = 1 AU
0.5 Exotic animals (llamas, ostriches, emu or the like) = 1 AU
0.7 Dairy cattle                                        = 1 AU
55.5 Turkeys                                            = 1 AU
100 Poultry                                             = 1 AU
10 Sheep                                                = 1 AU
 
            1.   For a parcel of contiguous real estate of less than 40 acres,
one AU per acre, or fraction thereof;
            2.   For a parcel of contiguous real estate of over 40 acres but
less than 80 acres, two AU per acre, or fraction thereof; and
            3.   For a parcel of contiguous real estate of over 80 acres, three
AU per acre, or fraction thereof.
      WATER WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven,
dug, jetted or otherwise constructed for the purpose of exploring for ground
water, monitoring ground water, utilizing the geothermal properties of the
ground or extracting water from or injecting water into the underground water.
It shall not include any excavation made for obtaining or prospecting for oil,
natural gas, minerals or products mines or quarried or inserted media to
repressure oil or natural gas bearing formations.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, construct or replace any
of the following actives within the aforenoted wellhead capture zone, except as
may be provided herein:
      (1)   Non-potable water well;
      (2)   Sewage lagoon;
      (3)   Absorption or disposal field for waste;
      (4)   Cesspool;
      (5)   Dump;
      (6)   Feedlot;
      (7)   Pit toilet;
      (8)   Sanitary landfill;
      (9)   Chemical or petroleum product storage;
      (10)   Septic tank;
      (11)   Sewage treatment plus;
      (12)   Sewage wet well;
      (13)   Sanitary sewer connection;
      (14)   Sanitary sewer manhole;
      (15)   Sanitary sewer line; and
      (16)   Sanitary sewer line (permanently water-tight).
   (E)   The placing, constructing or replacing of any structure or activity as
set forth in division (D) above, within the aforenoted wellhead capture zone
shall not be permitted, after the effective date of this section, unless a
permit approved by the City Council has been obtained. The owner of any
structure or activity listed in division (D) above shall have the burden of
establishing the existence and use of said structure or activity listed in
division (D) above at the time of the effective date of this section.
   (F)   The Mayor and City Council may consider the placing, constructing, to
replacing of a structure or activity listed in division (D) above within the
wellhead capture zone. Said placement, construction or replacement shall be
allowed only if the following procedure is utilized.
      (1)   An application must first be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer
along with supporting information indicating why approval would not adversely
impact the city’s municipal water supply.
      (2)   The Mayor and City Council shall refer the application and
supporting information to its Engineer for evaluation and report.
      (3)   In addition to thereof, the Mayor and City Council may submit the
application, and supporting information, together with its Engineer’s report,
to the Republican Natural Resources District for its recommendations.
      (4)   The Mayor and City Council shall consider the supporting
information, its Engineer’s report, the recommendations of the Lower Republican
Natural Resources District and any additional information submitted by the
applicant. In reaching its decision on whether to allow the placement,
construction or replacement of a structure or activity listed in division (D)
above, the Mayor and City Council must act to prevent all sources of possible
or likely water pollution or injury. Preference for approval will be given to
structure or activity listed in division (D) above that do not disturb any
water bearing strata.
      (5)   No structure or activity listed in division (D) above in existence
and use in the wellhead capture zone, as of the effective date of this section,
shall continue to be permitted unless such continued existence or use, in the
opinion of Mayor and City Council of the city presents a hazard to the quality
or quantity of the drinking water available for public use as the city’s
drinking water. If the Mayor and City Council determine that an existing
structure or activity listed in division (D) above presents a hazard to the
quality or quantity of the drinking water available for public use as the
city’s drinking water, the City Council shall authorize the Mayor to notify the
owner of the structure or activity listed in division (D) above to cease and
desist said structure or activity. If the owner of the said structure or
activity listed in division (D) above desires to continue said structure or
activity listed in division (D) above said owner shall proceed pursuant to this
division (F), if said owner does not cease and desist said structure or
activity listed in division (D) above, pursuant to said notice, the Mayor may
proceed pursuant to §
51.99(C) against said owner and/or the structure or activity listed in division
(D) above.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-22-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 3-901)
   (B)   Any person found violating any provisions of §
51.35 shall be subject to a fine of $500. The continuation of a violation of
this section shall be deemed an additional crime for every 24 hours of such
continued violation. In addition, the city may obtain injunctive relief, and
sue for damages and remediation and pursue any other remedy available to it
under the laws of the State of Nebraska or other authority having jurisdiction
over such matters.
   (C)   Any person found violating any provision of §
51.36 shall be subject to a fine, not to exceed $100. The continuation of a
violation of §
51.36 shall be deemed an additional crime every 24 hours of such continued
violation. In addition, the city may obtain injunctive relief, and sue for
damages and remediation and pursue any other remedy available to it under the
laws of the State of Nebraska or other authority having jurisdiction over such
matters.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 3-5-2002; Ord. 2004-01, passed 1-20-2004; Ord. 2005-02,
passed 3-22-2005; Ord. 2007-07, passed 9-18-2007)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Violation; notice and liability
Municipal Sewer Department
   
52.015   Operation and funding
   
52.016   Sewer contract
   
52.017   Service contracts
   
52.018   Rate setting
   
52.019   User charge review
   
52.020   User notification
   
52.021   Sewer Maintenance Fund
   
52.022   Classification
   
52.023   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.024   Installation procedure
   
52.025   Grease, oil and sand interceptors; when required
   
52.026   Preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
52.027   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
Public Sewers Required
   
52.040   Required; unlawful deposit of wastes
   
52.041   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage
   
52.042   Cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited
   
52.043   Mandatory hook-up
Private Sewage Disposal System
   
52.055   When applicable
   
52.056   Permit required; fee
   
52.057   Permit, when effective; inspections
   
52.058   Specifications
   
52.059   Maintenance
   
52.060   Additional requirements
Building Sewer Installation
   
52.075   Permit required
   
52.076   Classification; permit application, fee
   
52.077   Expense
   
52.078   Single premises
   
52.079   Use of existing sewers
   
52.080   Construction codes
   
52.081   Unlawful connection
   
52.082   Inspections
   
52.083   Excavations
Hazardous and Prohibited Discharges
   
52.095   Prohibited discharges; stormwater, surface water, groundwater, cooling
water and process water
   
52.096   Flammable, toxic, corrosive and obstructive substances; preliminary
treatment
   
52.097   Specific prohibitions as determined by Superintendent
   
52.098   Rejection, pretreatment, control of discharge rate or use fee
surcharge
   
52.099   Special exceptions permitted; use fee surcharge
Control Manholes/Sampling Stations
   
52.110   When required; installation and maintenance
   
52.111   Method
Compliance/Inspections
   
52.125   Generally
   
52.126   Injury liability
   
52.127   Easements
Sewer District
   
52.140   Sewer district created
 
   
52.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Utilities generally, see
Ch. 50
   Water, see
Ch. 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. Includes that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has BOD concentration of not
more than 250 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 250
mg/l.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ions in grams per liter
of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term operation and maintenance includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the municipality’s treatment
works whose lot, parcel of real estate or building is used for domestic
dwelling purposes only.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the City of Arapahoe, or his
or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Includes solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and are removable by
filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection systems, individual systems, pumping, power and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions improvement, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply
such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, or
any other method or system for preventing, abating, reducing, storing,
treating, separating or disposing of municipal waste or industrial waste,
including waste in combined stormwater and sanitary sewer systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by the city or furnished and/or installed by a user and approved by
the city.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1997 Code, § 3-202)
§ 52.002 VIOLATION; NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
52.027 shall be served by the municipality with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the municipality for any expense, loss or damage occasioned
the municipality by reason of such violation.
(1997 Code, § 3-244) Penalty, see §
52.999
MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT
§ 52.015 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) of the municipal
sewer system may establish a user charge system based on actual use and revise
the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance
and replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
      (2)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
   (B)   The revenue from the said user charge system based on actual use shall
be known as the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Utilities Superintendent shall have
the direct management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
(1997 Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149, 17-925.01
§ 52.016 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality through the Municipal Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when,
according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality
to which said contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate
any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations
that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or
his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building
or premises of such violation. No further connection for sewer service to said
building or premises shall again be made save or except by order of the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent.
(1997 Code, § 3-203) Penalty, see §
52.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902, 18-503
§ 52.017 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
sewer service to be shut off from the said premises. If the customer should
fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until
the official in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(1997 Code, § 3-204)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902, 18-503
§ 52.018 RATE SETTING.
   (A)   Each user shall pay for the services provided by the municipality.
Payment shall be in accordance with the schedule set below.
   (B)   The following classes of users and charges to those users are hereby
established:
 
                                            $16/month for operation and
Class I  Residential users: single family   maintenance, including replacement,
         contributors                       plus $0.20/1000 gal. (per winter
                                            water usage average)
         Industrial/commercial users: users $16/month for operation and
Class II which contribute greater volume or maintenance, including replacement,
         greater than normal wastewater     plus $0.20/1000 gal. (water use per
         strength                           month)
 
   (C)   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase
in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the municipality’s
treatment works, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs. The charge to each such user will be as determined by the
responsible plant operating personnel and approved by the City Council.
   (D)   The user charge rates established in this chapter apply to all users,
regardless of their location, of the municipality’s treatment works.
   (E)   This section shall take precedence over any terms or conditions of
agreements or contracts between the municipality and a user which are
consistent with current federal regulations promulgated under § 204 (b)(1)(A)
of the Clean Water Act, being 33 USC 1284.
   (F)   In accordance with this section, the municipality may at its own
discretion, require a user to pay the cost of installing a monitoring manhole
on their discharge line(s) to enable the municipality to adequately determine
both strength and volume of discharge from the user. Said monitoring manhole
shall be installed under the direction of the Utilities Superintendent and
should be located in the public right-of-way where possible. Where not
possible, user shall grant the municipality right of access to the monitoring
manhole.
(1997 Code, § 3-205) (Ord. 2013-09, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 52.019 USER CHARGE REVIEW.
   The municipality will review the user charge system at least every two
years, and revise user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system
generates adequate revenues to pay the costs of operation and maintenance
including replacement and that the system continues to provide for the
proportional distribution of operation and maintenance including replacement
costs among users and user classes.
(1997 Code, § 3-206)
§ 52.020 USER NOTIFICATION.
   The municipality will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction
with a regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation, maintenance
including replacement of the treatment works.
(1997 Code, § 3-207)
§ 52.021 SEWER MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay
costs of annual operation and maintenance including replacement which the
governing body may by ordinance designate to be paid by the user charge system.
That portion of the total user charge which is designated for operation and
maintenance including replacement of the treatment works shall be established
in this chapter.
   (B)   A portion of the total user charge collected which is designed for
operation and maintenance including replacement purposes as established in §
52.018, shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the
Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund and will be kept in two primary
accounts as follows:
      (1)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying
operation and maintenance costs (excluding replacement) of the treatment works
(Operation and Maintenance Account); and
      (2)   An account designated for the specific purpose of ensuring
replacement needs over the useful life of the treatment works (Replacement
Account). Deposits in the replacement account shall be made for the operation,
maintenance and replacement revenue in the amount of $1,000 annually.
   (C)   Fiscal year-end balances in the operation and maintenance account and
the replacement account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year, and shall be used for no other purposes than those
designated for these accounts. Moneys which have been transferred from other
sources to meet temporary shortages in the operation, maintenance and
replacement fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance and
replacement. The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted such that the
transferred moneys will be returned to their respective accounts within the
fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the moneys were borrowed.
(1997 Code, § 3-208)
§ 52.022 CLASSIFICATION.
   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers.
(1997 Code, § 3-209)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 52.023 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer
to repair or replace, all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to
and including the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the
customer shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the
Utilities Superintendent; provided, that the same have been previously approved
by the governing body.
(1997 Code, § 3-223)
§ 52.024 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant or lessee of the property. All installations or repairs of
pipes require two inspections by the Utilities Superintendent. The first
inspection shall be made when connections or repairs are complete and before
the pipe is covered. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the
Utilities Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations and specifications for such installation prescribed
by the Utilities Superintendent; provided, that the said rules, regulations and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing body.
(1997 Code, § 3-230) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.025 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
(1997 Code, § 3-235)
§ 52.026 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1997 Code, § 3-236)
§ 52.027 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(1997 Code, § 3-240) Penalty, see §
52.999
Cross-reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see §
130.07
PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 52.040 REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the municipality, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(1997 Code, § 3-210) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.041 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the municipality, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 3-211) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.042 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
(1997 Code, § 3-212) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.043 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the municipality and abutting on
any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the municipality, is
hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
(1997 Code, § 3-213) Penalty, see §
52.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 52.055 WHEN APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.043, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
52.043, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (C)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be abandoned in accordance with the Nebraska Department of Environmental
Control (NDEC), Title 124; Rules and Regulations for the Design, Operation and
Maintenance of Septic Tank Systems.
(1997 Code, § 3-214)
§ 52.056 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
municipality, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications
and other information as are deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit
and inspection fee of $20 shall be paid to the municipality at the time the
application is filed.
(1997 Code, § 3-215)
§ 52.057 PERMIT, WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (B)   The inspection shall be made within four hours of the receipt of
notice by the Superintendent.
(1997 Code, § 3-216)
§ 52.058 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with the Nebraska Department of Environmental Control
(NDEC), Title 124; Rules and Regulations for the Design, Operation and
Maintenance of Septic Tank Systems. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than 15,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(1997 Code, § 3-217)
§ 52.059 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the municipality.
(1997 Code, § 3-218) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.060 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(1997 Code, § 3-219)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 52.075 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(1997 Code, § 3-220) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.076 CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION, FEE.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the municipality. The permit application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of
$20 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $40 for an
industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
(1997 Code, § 3-221)
§ 52.077 EXPENSE.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(1997 Code, § 3-222)
§ 52.078 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(1997 Code, § 3-224)
§ 52.079 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 3-225)
§ 52.080 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
municipality. In the absence of Code provisions or in application thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
      (2)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (C)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the municipality, or the procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of
Practice No. 9.
      (2)   All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
(1997 Code, § 3-226)
§ 52.081 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1997 Code, § 3-227) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.082 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer.
   (B)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(1997 Code, § 3-228)
§ 52.083 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
   (B)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
municipality.
(1997 Code, § 3-229) Penalty, see §
52.999
HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 52.095 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING
WATER AND PROCESS WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(1997 Code, § 3-231) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.096 FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY
TREATMENT.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but no limited to
cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public
sewer;
   (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; or
   (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, mild containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1997 Code, § 3-232) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.097 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.6;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (11)   (a)   Any waters or wastes having:
            1.   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
            2.   Containing more than 300 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
            3.   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent.
         (b)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight, reduce the suspended solids to 300 parts per million by weight, or
control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans,
specifications and any other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
said approvals are obtained in writing.
(1997 Code, § 3-233) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.098 REJECTION, PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE
SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.097, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
52.097.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(1997 Code, § 3-234)
§ 52.099 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(1997 Code, § 3-239)
CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS
§ 52.110 WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(1997 Code, § 3-237) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.111 METHOD.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(1997 Code, § 3-238)
COMPLIANCE/INSPECTIONS
§ 52.125 GENERALLY.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the municipality
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
(1997 Code, § 3-241) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.126 INJURY LIABILITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
52.125, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the municipality
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
municipal employees and the municipality shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by municipal employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such
as may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe
conditions as required in §
52.110.
(1997 Code, § 3-242)
§ 52.127 EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the municipality
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the municipality holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1997 Code, § 3-243)
SEWER DISTRICT
§ 52.140 SEWER DISTRICT CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created within said city, a sewer district to be known
as Sewer District No. 2003-01 consisting of the area included in Watson
Addition to the city.
   (B)   Said sewer shall serve the lots in Watson Addition to the city; the
depth, size and installation shall be in accordance with plans, specifications
and estimates to be adopted.
   (C)   The cost of such installation, except street and alley intersections
shall be assessed against the property in said district specifically benefitted
thereby, in proportion to the benefits.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 5-6-2003)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
52.002 shall be guilty of an offense, and on conviction thereof shall be fined
in the amount not exceeding $100 for each violation. Each 24-hour period in
which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 3-245)
CHAPTER 53: MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
Section
   
53.01   Ownership
   
53.02   Contracts and terms
   
53.03   Consumer’s application
   
53.04   Electrical service contracts
   
53.05   Installation expense
   
53.06   Meters
   
53.07   Fees and collections
   
53.08   Minimum rates
   
53.09   Restricted use
   
53.10   Building moving
   
53.11   Posting signs
   
53.12   Trimming trees
   
53.13   Inspections
   
53.14   Destruction of property
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Electrical System through
the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the Municipal Electrical
System may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody
of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
direct management and control of the municipal electrical system and shall
faithfully carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the safe and efficient management
of the electrical system subject to the supervision and review of the governing
body.
(1997 Code, § 3-301)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906,
17-909
§ 53.02 CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The municipality through its Electrical Department shall furnish electric
current for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any
supply wire of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to such
other persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and rates
for electric service, hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a
part of every application hereafter made for electric service and shall be
considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by the
Electrical Department. Without further formality, the making of application on
the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of electric energy by
present customers and the furnishing of electric service to said applicant or
customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the
municipality, to which both parties are bound. If customer should violate any
of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that
the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or his or
her agent, shall cut off or disconnect the electric service from the building
or place of such violation and no further connection of electric service for
such building or place shall again be made except by order of the Utilities
Superintendent or his or her agent.
(1997 Code, § 3-302)
§ 53.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
    Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make application
therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. Any applicant may be required to make
a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the governing body and on
file at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. Electricity may not be
supplied to any house or building except upon the order of the Utilities
Superintendent. The system shall not supply to any person outside the corporate
limits electrical service without special permission from the governing body;
provided, that the entire cost of wire, installation and other expenses shall
be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
municipality to supply electrical service to nonresidents.
(1997 Code, § 3-303)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902, 19-2701
§ 53.04 ELECTRICAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose or remove from the premises where
service is furnished in his or her name, or if the said premises is destroyed
by fire or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Utilities
Superintendent who shall cause the electrical service to be shut off from the
said premises. If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall
be charged for all electricity used on the said premises until the Utilities
Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(1997 Code, § 3-304)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902, 19-1404
§ 53.05 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The expense of installation and equipment for electrical service shall
be the expense of the consumer.
   (B)   The City Council shall, by resolution, set and determine charges for
such installation up to and including the electrical meter for each party.
(1997 Code, § 3-305)
§ 53.06 METERS.
   All electrical meters shall be read between the fifteenth and the twentieth
of each month during which electrical service is used between the nineteenth
day and the first day of the succeeding month. In the event a meter is broken
or otherwise fails to register accurately the use of electricity by any
consumer, the six-month average of the season one year previous to such
breakage shall be used for billing purposes.
(1997 Code, § 3-306)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 53.07 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by electrical consumers for the use of electricity. All rates shall be on
file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall bill the consumers and collect all
money received by the municipality on the account of the municipal electrical
system.
(1997 Code, § 3-307)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902, 19-1404
§ 53.08 MINIMUM RATES.
   All electrical consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall by written order direct the
Utilities Superintendent to shut off the electricity in which case he or she
shall not be liable thereafter for electrical service until the electricity is
turned on again.
(1997 Code, § 3-308)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902, 19-1404
§ 53.09 RESTRICTED USE.
   The municipal electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has sufficient
power, current, equipment and machinery to do so. The Utilities Superintendent
has the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue such service for any
good and sufficient reason without liability. The municipality shall use due
care and reasonable diligence to provide and supply uninterrupted service to
consumers, but shall not be liable for damages resulting from interruption of
service due to causes over which the municipality has no control and the
municipality expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect any
consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(1997 Code, § 3-309)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902, 19-1404
§ 53.10 BUILDING MOVING.
   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it becomes
necessary in said work to remove or disturb any of the property or wires of the
municipal electrical system, the same should not be done except upon written
permission received from the Utilities Superintendent, who shall then order
paid in advance the actual cost of moving the said wires and such cost shall be
paid by the applicant prior to the moving of the building or house. All expense
of removing, changing and replacing the said wires or apparatus of the
electrical system shall be paid out of the deposit made prior to moving and any
surplus remaining after all expenses are paid shall be returned to the
applicant; provided, that if in the course of moving the said building or house
it becomes apparent that additional expense will be incurred, such additional
deposit as deemed necessary may be demanded.
(1997 Code, § 3-310)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 53.11 POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures or equipment of the municipal electrical system any sign,
poster, advertisement or banner without written permission from the Utilities
Superintendent.
(1997 Code, § 3-312) Penalty, see §
53.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 53.12 TRIMMING TREES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in
close proximity to the lines of the municipal electrical system shall, before
doing the said work, give reasonable written notice to the Utilities
Superintendent and shall follow any and all rules and regulations which he or
she may prescribe for doing such work.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing such trees or
branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving proper notice and
receiving permission in writing to do so.
   (C)   Whenever it becomes necessary to protect the lines or property of the
electrical system, the governing body shall have the power to order cut and
remove any overhanging branches, or limbs of trees so that the lines will be
free and safe.
(1997 Code, § 3-313) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall have
free access at any reasonable time to each premises and building to or in which
electricity is supplied; provided, that in the event of an emergency, such
inspections may take place at any time.
(1997 Code, § 3-314)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 53.14 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the municipal electrical system.
(1997 Code, § 3-315) Penalty, see §
53.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-512
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 3-901)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Business district defined
   
70.03   Residential district defined
   
70.04   Truck routes
   
70.05   Traffic lane; designation
   
70.06   Arterial streets; designation
   
70.07   Crosswalks
   
70.08   Signs, signals
   
70.09   Utility vehicles
School Crossing Zones
   
70.20   Designation
   
70.21   Overtaking and passing
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The words and phrases used in this title, pertaining to motor vehicles
and traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Chapter 60,
Article 6, as now existing or hereafter amended.
   (B)   If not defined in the designated statutes or in this code, the word or
phrase shall have its common meaning.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way, which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
      UTILITY VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which meets the
following, and shall include lawnmowers, whether or not the lawnmower is
equipped with headlights or brake lights:
         (a)   Is 60 inches or less in width;
         (b)   Travels on three or more low-pressure tires; and
         (c)   Is equipped with operational headlights and brake lights.
(1997 Code, § 5-101) (Ord. 2013-04, passed 6-18-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676
§ 70.02 BUSINESS DISTRICT DEFINED.
   The term BUSINESS DISTRICT shall include the following streets or portions
thereof, and all alleys leading therefrom: Nebraska Avenue between Chestnut
Street and Oak Street.
(1997 Code, § 5-102)
§ 70.03 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT DEFINED.
   The term RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT shall mean all streets, avenues and alleys not
situated within the business district.
(1997 Code, § 5-103)
§ 70.04 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through or about the municipality. The governing
body shall cause notices to be posted, or shall erect signs indicating the
streets so designated as truck routes.
(1997 Code, § 5-104) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-681
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC LANE; DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(1997 Code, § 5-105)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.06 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when such street has been so designated.
(1997 Code, § 5-106)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.07 CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
(1997 Code, § 5-107)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.08 SIGNS, SIGNALS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs, or other signs, signals, standards or mechanical devices in any street
or alley under the municipality’s jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating,
or prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of
the street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the
regulation or prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or
mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with such regulation, or prohibition.
(1997 Code, § 5-108) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 through 60-6,121, 60-
680
§ 70.09 UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   A utility vehicle may be operated on streets and highways within the
corporate limits of the city only if the operator and the vehicle comply with
the provisions of division (E) this section.
   (B)   A utility vehicle may be operated only between the hours of sunrise
and sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in excess of the posted speed
limit. When operating a utility vehicle as authorized in division (A) of this
section, the headlights and taillights of the vehicle shall be on and the
vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less
than five feet above ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle
safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30
square inches and shall be day-glow in color.
   (C)   Any person operating a utility vehicle as authorized in division (A)
of this section shall:
      (1)   Hold a valid driver’s license; and
      (2)   Have liability insurance coverage for the utility vehicle while
operating the utility vehicle on a street or highway. The person operating the
utility vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace
officer requesting such proof within five days of such a request showing that
the vehicle was insured at the time the operator was contacted by the peace
officer.
   (D)   Utility vehicles may be operated without complying with division (B)
and (C) of this section on streets and highways in parades, which have been
authorized, by the state or any department, board, commission, or political
subdivision of the state.
   (E)   (1)   A utility vehicle shall not be operated on any controlled access
highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any
controlled access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be
permitted. For purposes of this section turn lanes are deemed to be auxiliary
lanes and not traffic lanes.
      (2)   The crossing of a highway shall be permitted by a utility vehicle
without complying with divisions (B) and (C) only if:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
         (c)   The operator yields to the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic
that constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
         (d)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
         (e)   Both the headlights and taillights of the vehicle are on when
the crossing is made, if the vehicle is so equipped.
      (3)   The operator of the vehicle shall not allow the number of
passengers of the vehicle to exceed the manufacturer’s passenger
specifications.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit the operation
of or parking of a utility vehicle on sidewalks in the business district.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 6-18-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99 
SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES
§ 70.20 DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (B)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a motor
vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in which
the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides fines
for violation of that prohibition.
   (C)   The governing body may, by resolution, designate to the public any
area of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the
use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the governing body in
conformity with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or traffic
control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until a sign
or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has ended.
(1997 Code, § 5-109) (Ord. 1998-18, passed 11-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-658.01
§ 70.21 OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   A person operating a motor vehicle may not overtake and pass another vehicle
in any school crossing zone designated by the governing body in which the
roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction.
(1997 Code, § 5-110) (Ord. 1998-19, passed 11-3-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,134.01
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 5-401)
CHAPTER 71: PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
71.01   Speed limits
   
71.02   Police; enforcement
   
71.03   Traffic citations; disposition and records
   
71.04   Vehicles; loud and disturbing noises; jake brakes
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits, see
Ch. 73, Sch. I
§ 71.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley or other place
at a rate of speed greater than 25 mph within the residential district, and 20
mph within the business district, unless a different rate of speed is
specifically permitted by ordinance. In no instance shall a person drive a
vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under
the conditions. Where a different maximum speed is set by ordinance,
appropriate signs shall be posted.
(1997 Code, § 5-201) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,185, 60-6,186, 60-6,190
§ 71.02 POLICE; ENFORCEMENT.
   The municipal police are hereby authorized, empowered and ordered to
exercise all powers, and duties, with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate and, when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health and
convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer.
(1997 Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-683
§ 71.03 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; DISPOSITION AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The municipal police upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of this chapter shall deposit a copy of the traffic
citation with the Municipal Attorney, unless the citation is just a warning.
   (B)   Upon the deposit of the traffic citation with the Attorney, such
citation may be disposed of only by trial in said court, or other official
action by the judge of the court, including a forfeiture of bail, or by the
deposit of sufficient bail with, or payment of a fine to the court by the
person to whom such traffic citation has been issued.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the municipal police to dispose of a traffic
citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the issuance of the same in a
manner other than as required herein.
(1997 Code, § 5-204) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 29-422, 29-424
§ 71.04 VEHICLES; LOUD AND DISTURBING NOISES; JAKE BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the
municipality to make, or cause to be made, loud or disturbing noises with any
mechanical device operated by compressed air or engine braking and used for the
purpose of assisting braking on any vehicle, commonly called, “jake braking.”
The governing body shall cause notices to be posted or erect signs indicating
this prohibition.
(1997 Code, § 5-205) (Ord. 1999-06, passed 11-2-1999) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 5-401)
   (B)   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with §
71.04 shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be fined
not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed for every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(1997 Code, § 5-205)
(Ord. 1999-06, passed 11-2-1999)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Generally
   
72.02   Designation
   
72.03   Areas
   
72.04   Residential district regulations
   
72.05   Obstructing alley
   
72.06   Fire hydrants and stations
   
72.07   Street intersections
   
72.08   Obstructing traffic
   
72.09   Display or repair
   
72.10   Time limit
   
72.11   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
   
72.12   Emergency vehicles
   
72.13   Tickets
   
72.14   Restriction on parking of certain vehicles at city park
Parking; Handicapped or Disabled Persons
   
72.25   Designation of on-street parking spaces; display of permits
   
72.26   Designation of off-street parking spaces
   
72.27   Handicapped parking infraction defined
   
72.28   Permit issuance
   
72.29   Motor vehicle permit issuance
   
72.30   Permit contents, duplicate permits
   
72.31   Permits; period valid; renewal; fee
   
72.32   Permits nontransferable; violation; suspension
   
72.33   Removal of unauthorized vehicle
   
72.34   Citation; issuance; complaint; trial
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
such manner as to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway, and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the governing body
designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front
right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated
either on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such stalls. No
vehicle shall be parked upon a roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the
roadway which is available for parking.
(1997 Code, § 5-301) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,167
§ 72.02 DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(1997 Code, § 5-302)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,167, 60-680
§ 72.03 AREAS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public
way or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of
vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(1997 Code, § 5-303)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.04 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No motor vehicle shall remain parked or shall stand on any north-south
street or avenue of the residential district except along, parallel to and
within six inches of the east curb of such streets and avenues.
   (B)   No motor vehicle shall be parked or stand on any east-west street
except along, parallel to and within six inches of the south curb of such
street.
(1997 Code, § 5-305) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.05 OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
    No vehicle, while parked shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(1997 Code, § 5-306) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.06 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within such area of 15 feet in either direction of such fire hydrant
shall be painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(1997 Code, § 5-307) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 72.07 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines, or if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines, nor where said
curb lines are painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(1997 Code, § 5-308) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 72.08 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(1997 Code, § 5-309) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.09 DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley or public
place within this municipality any vehicle displayed for sale. No person shall
adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same, while
standing on the public streets or alleys of this municipality, excepting in
case of breakdown or other emergency requiring the same. No person or employee
connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets or alleys
in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the purpose of working on
automobiles or vehicles of any description.
(1997 Code, § 5-310) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.10 TIME LIMIT.
   The governing body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a time
limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets or
district designated by such resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any
vehicle in any such street, streets or district, for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 5-321) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.11 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of the subchapter, such
individual may remove or have such vehicle removed, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle, to a position off
the roadway of such street or alley or from such street or alley.
   (B)   (1)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of
any vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing
and storage fees.
      (2)   Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any
vehicles.
(1997 Code, § 5-322) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,165, 60-680
§ 72.12 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this subchapter regulate the movement, parking and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles while
drivers of such vehicle is operating the same in an emergency in the necessary
performance of public duties.
(1997 Code, § 5-323)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.13 TICKETS.
   All tickets issued for violation of non-moving traffic regulations contained
in this subchapter shall, in addition to information normally stated on such
tickets, carry the following information:
   (A)   The amount of the fine if paid within ten days;
   (B)   The location where the payment may be made; and
   (C)   The fact that a complaint will be issued after ten days if the fine is
not paid in that time.
(1997 Code, § 5-324)
§ 72.14 RESTRICTION ON PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES AT CITY PARK.
   No vehicle with a manufacturer’s weight rating in excess of 26,000 pounds
shall be parked or left on either side of any street adjacent to the city park
or swimming pool.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 5-3-2005) Penalty, see §
72.99
PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS
§ 72.25 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body may designate parking spaces for the
exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3113.01 through 60-3113.04;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality,
which display such permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by attaching the permit to the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. When there is no rearview mirror, the permit shall be displayed on
the dashboard.
   (B)   If the governing body so designates a parking space, it shall be
indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from
each space a sign which is in conformance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices. In addition to such sign, the space may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space.
(1997 Code, § 5-311) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736, 18-1737
§ 72.26 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The governing body and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in such facility for the
exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-311.14;
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which
display such permit.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting aboveground and immediately
adjacent to and visible from each stall or space a sign which is in conformance
with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
(1997 Code, § 5-312) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 72.27 HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device, any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces designated for use by handicapped or
disabled persons; or
      (2)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990, being 42 USC 12101 et seq.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for no
longer than one year.
(1997 Code, § 5-313)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1738, 18-1741.01
§ 72.28 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall take an application from a
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person or
his or her parent, legal guardian or foster parent for a permit which will
entitle the holder thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose
of transporting such holder to park in those spaces provided for by this
subchapter when the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle
while it is parked in such spaces. For purposes of this section, the
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person
shall be considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall not accept the application for a
permit of any person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS
18-1738.02.
   (C)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity and shall submit a
completed medical form signed by a physician, physician assistant or nurse
practitioner certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the
definition of handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person. In the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person,
the certifying physician, physician assistant or nurse practitioner shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (D)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.29, but not both.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall submit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a
permit pursuant to this section.
(1997 Code, § 5-314)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1738, 18-1738.02
§ 72.29 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall take an application from any
person for a motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a
person driving the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in
those spaces provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces.
   (B)    The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall not accept the application for a
permit of any person making application contrary to Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
   (C)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall demonstrate to
the Municipal Clerk- Treasurer that each such motor vehicle is used primarily
for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall
be given to each applicant.
   (D)   (1)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor
vehicle.
      (2)   A person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit
under §
72.28, but not both.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall submit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a
permit pursuant to this section.
(1997 Code, § 5-315)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1738.01, 18-1738.02
§ 72.30 PERMIT CONTENTS, DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   The permit issued for handicapped or disabled parking shall be
constructed of a durable plastic designed to resist normal wear or fading for
the term of the permit’s issuance and printed so as to minimize the possibility
of alteration following issuance. The permit shall be of a design, size,
configuration, color and construction and contain such information as specified
in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the United States
Department of Transportation in the Uniform System for Handicapped Parking, 23
C.F.R. Part 1235.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of division (A) above, the permit
shall show such identifying information with regard to the handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person to whom it is
issued as is necessary to the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
72.32. At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed upon the
payment of the permit fee.
   (D)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer. A duplicate permit shall be valid for the remainder of the
period for which the original permit was issued.
(1997 Code, § 5-316)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1739
§ 72.31 PERMITS; PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for handicapped or
disabled parking prior to September 10, 1993, shall be issued for a period
ending January 1 of the fourth year following the date of issuance. All permits
authorized under this subchapter for handicapped or disabled parking after
September 9, 1993, and before September 10, 1995, shall be issued for a period
of three years. Upon the expiration of a permanent permit, it may be renewed
pursuant to the provisions of this section and §§
72.28 or
72.29. After September 9, 1995, all permanently issued permits authorized by
this subchapter shall be issued for a period ending September 30 of the third
year following the date of issuance and shall expire on that date, except that
an application for the renewal of a permit filed with the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer within 30 days of the date after its expiration shall be deemed to
have been filed prior to the date of its expiration. The possession of an
expired but otherwise valid handicapped parking permit with 30 days following
the date of its expiration shall serve as a full and complete defense in any
action for a handicapped parking infraction resulting from the absence of a
handicapped parking permit arising during that 30-day period.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter after September 9, 1995,
for temporarily handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period
ending not more than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed
for a one-time period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there
shall be submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or
disability and the required permit fee.
   (C)   A permit fee of $3 shall be charged for each permit, $2 of which shall
be retained by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and $1 of which shall be forwarded
on a quarterly basis to the State Treasurer for credit to the Department of
Motor Vehicles Cash Fund.
(1997 Code, § 5-317)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1740
§ 72.32 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; VIOLATION; SUSPENSION.
   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and shall be
used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which issued
and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall alter or
reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter. No person
shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit. Any violation of this section shall
be cause for suspension of such permit for a period of six months. At the
expiration of such period, a suspended permit may be renewed upon payment of
the permit fee.
(1997 Code, § 5-318) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741
§ 72.33 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff’s Department, and the
municipality providing on-street parking or owning, operating or providing an
off-street parking facility may cause the removal, from a stall or space
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
such persons, of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the
distinguishing license plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted
aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space a
sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as a tow-in
zone.
   (B)   Anyone who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space which has
been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
such persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space in any off-
street parking facility, without properly displaying the proper permit or when
the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom the license plate or
permit is issued will not enter or exit the vehicle while it is parked in the
designated space shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction as defined
in §
72.27 and shall be subject to the procedures set forth in §
72.34 and the penalty provided for in §
72.99. The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or
permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly
constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and complete
defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction. If the identity of
the person who parked the vehicle in violation of this section cannot be
readily determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered
shall be held prima facie responsible for such violation and shall be guilty
and subject to the penalty provided for in §
72.99.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
owner or person in lawful possession of such facility shall not be required to
inform the municipality of a violation of this section prior to the
municipality issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(1997 Code, § 5-319) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 72.34 CITATION; ISSUANCE; COMPLAINT; TRIAL.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the governing body to exercise the authority
to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged, and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the Municipal Attorney or other person authorized by law to
issue a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint
charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction or such person shall
be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (E)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01, the complaint
shall be dismissed if, within seven business days after the date of issuance of
the citation, the person cited files with the court the affidavit included on
the citation, signed by a peace officer certifying that the recipient is the
lawful possessor in his or her own right of a handicapped parking permit issued
under Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01 and that the peace officer has personally
viewed the permit.
(1997 Code, § 5-320)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04, 18-
1741.06
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 5-401)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Truck routes
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   On Nebraska Avenue, which is a route of U.S. Highway 283, between the
north corporate limits of said city, south to the north line of Cedar Street
the speed limit shall be 45 mph; between the north line of Cedar Street and
north line of Chestnut Street, the speed limit shall be 35 mph; between the
north line of Chestnut Street and the north line of Pine Street the speed limit
shall be 30 mph; from the north line of Pine Street to Dalton Street the speed
limit shall be 40 mph.
   (B)   On Chestnut Street, which is the route of U.S. Highway 6-34 from West
Street to the west line of Tenth Street the speed limit shall be 50 mph; from
the west line of Tenth Street to the west line of Third Street the speed limit
shall be 40 mph; from the west line of third Street to the east corporate
limits, the speed limit shall be 45 mph.
(1997 Code, § 5-202) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,186, 60-6,190
SCHEDULE II: TRUCK ROUTES
   Trucks with a gross weight in excess of 26,000 pounds are not permitted to
travel on Pine Street between Nebraska Avenue and Eighth Street. A truck route
is posted for truck travel on Oak Street.
(Res. 2006-06, passed 3-21-2006) Penalty, see §
71.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Business district regulations
   
II.   Parking of heavy vehicles
SCHEDULE I. BUSINESS DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All motor vehicles parked on the streets in the business district
shall be parked to the curb and within parking space markings at the curb;
provided, such vehicles parked on Nebraska Avenue from Chestnut Street north to
city limits shall be parked parallel to and no more than six inches from the
curb.
   (B)   No truck with a rated capacity of more than three-fourths of a ton
shall be parked in any manner on Main Street in the business district;
provided, when attended by a driver a truck may stand temporarily in a traffic
lane for the purpose of loading.
(1997 Code, § 5-304) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
SCHEDULE II. PARKING OF HEAVY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Parking of trucks with a gross weight in excess of 26,000 pounds is
not permitted at any time on either side of Pine Street between Nebraska Avenue
and Ninth Street and on either side of Oak Street between Nebraska Avenue and
Eighth Street.
   (B)   Parking of trucks with a gross weight in excess of 26,000 pounds for a
period in excess of four hours is not permitted on the city street in any area
of the city. The city has established a designated long-term truck parking area
on the south side of the city limits, on the east side of U.S. Highway 283.
(Res. 2006-04, passed 3-21-2006; Res. 2006-05, passed 3-21-2006) Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
93.   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
      
94.   MUNICIPAL PARKS
      
95.   MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL
      
96.   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY
      
97.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
98.   FAIR HOUSING
      
99.   SEXUAL PREDATORS
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Health regulations
   
90.002   Health Enforcement Official
   
90.003   County Health Board
Littering
   
90.015   Littering
Weeds
   
90.030   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
Abandoned Automobiles
   
90.045   Abandoned automobiles
Nuisances
   
90.060   Purpose; generally defined
   
90.061   Specifically defined
   
90.062   Abatement procedure
   
90.063   Enforcement
   
90.064   Expenses
Trees
   
90.075   Dead or diseased trees
   
90.076   Tree topping
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(1997 Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 90.002 HEALTH ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Furnas County Sheriff, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the chief
health officer of the municipality. It shall be his or her duty to notify the
governing body and the Board of Health of health nuisances within the
municipality and its zoning jurisdiction.
(1997 Code, § 4-102)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 90.003 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
municipality.
(1997 Code, § 4-103)
LITTERING
§ 90.015 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
   (B)   The word LITTER as used in this section shall mean all waste material
susceptible of being dropped, deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by
any person upon any property in the state but does not include wastes of
primary processes of farming or manufacturing. WASTE MATERIAL as used in this
section shall mean any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of such motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(1997 Code, § 6-308) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
WEEDS
§ 90.030 WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality shall be drained or
filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating
thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining street and
alleys free of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or
worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the municipality is prohibited; provided, that grass, leaves
and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
with the municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality may have such work done. The costs and expenses of
any such work shall be paid by the owner.
      (2)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the municipality
may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   LITTER shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost its identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform its intended functions, or are cast
off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      (2)   WEEDS shall include, but not be limited to, bindweed (convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle (cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba),
Russian knapweed (centaurea picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding
or musk thistle, quack grass (agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (solanum carolinense), bull thistle (cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (ambrosiaceae).
(1997 Code, § 6-307)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563, 18-1720
ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES
§ 90.045 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any automobile on the municipal
streets, highways, alleys, parks or other property. An automobile shall be
deemed to be abandoned if left unattended:
      (1)   With no number plates affixed thereto, for more than six hours on
any public property;
      (2)   For more than 24 hours on any public property, except a portion
thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
      (3)   For more than 48 hours, after the parking of such vehicle shall
have become illegal, if left on a portion of a public property on which parking
is legally permitted; or
      (4)   For more than seven days on private property if left initially
without permission of the owner, or after permission of the owner shall be
terminated.
   (B)   (1)   The title to any automobile so abandoned which at the time of
such abandonment, has no number plates of the current year affixed and is of a
wholesale value, taking into consideration the condition of such vehicle, of
$100 or less, shall immediately vest in the municipality. In the event the
automobile is licensed for the current year or is of a wholesale value of over
$100, the municipal police shall make a reasonable effort to contact the owner
of the said automobile by sending a notice to the registered owner, if known;
by sending an inquiry to the county it is registered in, if the owner is
unknown; or by contacting the Director of Motor Vehicles, if the car is without
license plates and the owner is unknown.
      (2)   If notified by the Director of Motor Vehicles that a lien or
mortgage exists on said vehicle, notice shall also be sent to the lienholder or
mortgagee.
      (3)   Any person claiming such vehicle shall be required to pay the cost
of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   If the owner, lienholder or mortgagee is known and does not claim
the automobile within five days after the date when the notice was mailed, or
upon receiving word from the Director of Motor Vehicles that the owner is
unknown, title will immediately vest in the municipality and the automobile may
be sold. Any proceeds from the sale of the automobile less any expenses
incurred by the municipality in such sale shall be held without interest for
the benefit of the owner of such vehicle for a period of two years. If not
claimed within such period of time, the proceeds shall then be paid into the
General Fund.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any public
right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or other state, county or
municipally-owned property; and PRIVATE PROPERTY shall mean any privately owned
property which is not included within the definition of public property.
   (D)   Any person who abandons an automobile as hereinbefore defined shall be
deemed to be guilty of an offense.
(1997 Code, § 6-310) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1911
NUISANCES
§ 90.060 PURPOSE; GENERALLY DEFINED.
   (A)   Purpose. The city, by this subchapter, defines its authority to
define, regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what shall be
a nuisance for its jurisdiction and to provide services to abate same for the
health and sanitation of the city.
   (B)   Definition. A NUISANCE consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting
to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or
exist, which act, omission, condition or thing:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street or
highway in the municipality;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property; or
      (7)   Tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(1997 Code, § 4-301) (Ord. 2014-03, passed 3-24-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 90.061 SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   NUISANCE includes, but is not limited to the maintaining, using, placing,
depositing, leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts,
omissions, places, conditions which are not otherwise legally permitted or
allowed by zoning regulations:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish,
or fowl. This shall apply to parking and/or stopping of any vehicle carrying
such debris. It shall be strictly prohibited to park said vehicles within one
mile of city limits or on any city street at any time. Any person who parks
said vehicles within the one mile radius of the city limits shall be deemed to
be guilty of an offense;
   (B)   The emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors, or polluted
air from any source that is injurious or dangerous to human health and safety;
   (C)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats or other insects and rodents, or which
are foul or malodorous;
   (D)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
   (E)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits;
   (F)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
   (G)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and
manner approved by the municipality;
   (H)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (I)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats or other
insects or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or
which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the vicinity;
   (J)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard or other structure,
or any old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any
building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards or other structures are a fire hazard, or a menace to the public
health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in
the vicinity;
   (K)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity;
   (L)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when the places in which said animals are confined, or the premises
on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom,
to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality, or are maintained and kept
in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
   (M) Dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets within the
corporate limits of the city, or on private property within the one mile zoning
jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits;
   (N)   Undrained lots which hold or may hold stagnant water or any other
nuisance;
   (O)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and rodents;
   (P)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing, or allowing to remain trash,
garbage, scrap and wrecked, worn-out, broken or inoperative, or partially
destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind, including any
junk or abandoned motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery, and equipment;
   (Q)   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is inoperable,
wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled and remaining longer than 30 days on
private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise
(such as a licensed salvage dealer, motor vehicle dealer or farm implement
dealer), or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner, and so long as the premises which said vehicle is
located is not a nuisance and is maintained in a healthful and safe condition.
VEHICLE means the same as defined by Neb. RS 60-136: a motor vehicle, all-
terrain vehicle, minibike, trailer, or semitrailer. PROPERLY REGISTERED means
as required by Nebraska Statutes;
   (R)   Lots, pieces of ground, and the adjoining streets and alleys with
growth of weeds or noxious growth;
   (S)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(1997 Code, § 4-302) (Ord. 2014-03, passed 3-24-2014; Ord. 2016-09, passed 9-
20-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 90.062 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Nuisance Officer. The city shall appoint an individual or organization
to identify and enforce abatement of nuisances within the city. The individual
or organization shall be identified as the Nuisance Officer and the appointment
shall be identified by resolution of the city.
   (B)   Identifying nuisances.
      (1)   The city may identify suspected nuisances, in which case the City
Clerk, shall upon direction of the City Board, notify Nuisance Officer of the
suspected location, person or persons in violation of any provision of this
chapter and provide the address of such alleged nuisance.
      (2)   The city may request that the Nuisance Officer audit the city for
nuisances in the city as defined by this code. The Nuisance Officer shall then
view the property or area for any violations of the nuisances of the city. The
Nuisance Officer shall not go upon private property for said audit unless
granted permission by the resident/owner of suspected property.
   (C)   Confirming, documenting and presenting nuisances. The Nuisance Officer
shall identify and confirm that in his or her opinion a nuisance exists as
defined by federal, state or city law.
      (1)   Upon confirming that a nuisance appears to exist the Nuisance
Officer shall document said nuisance with photographs and other evidence
pertinent to the situation. The Nuisance Officer will also obtain the legal
description of the property and identify the current owners and, if possible,
the occupants of the property upon which the nuisance exists.
      (2)   The Nuisance Officer shall then present this information to the
city governing board at a regular or special meeting for its confirmation that
a nuisance exists as stated in § 90.63.
(1997 Code, § 4-303) (Ord. 2009-1, passed 1-20-2009; Ord. 2014-03, passed 3-24-
2014) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 90.063 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement procedures. The nuisance, health and/or sanitation
violation is brought to the governing body by the City Nuisance Officer, or the
Board of Health or upon the governing body's own action. The governing body
then may declare by resolution a nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation.
The nuisance, health, and/or sanitation ordinances may be enforced by any of
the following procedures, or any combination of these procedures:
      (1)   City administrative procedures;
      (2)   Penal prosecutions through the courts, and/or;
      (3)   Civil procedures in the courts.
   (B)   Administrative procedure. The city may proceed with abatement of the
nuisance, sanitation, or health violation with or without court involvement
after the following procedure is followed:
      (1)   After a nuisance is declared the City Clerk notifies the Nuisance
Officer to serve notice upon the violator(s).
      (2)   The Nuisance Officer shall prepare and serve notice which shall
describe the found nuisance and state the required date of abatement and
removal of the nuisance shall be accomplished. The notice shall also provide
information as to how the interested parties may request a hearing before the
Governing body described in division (B)(4) of this section.
      (3)   The notice shall be given to each owner or owner's duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, the notice shall
be given by a single publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city or county of the city, and by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot
or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. The date of
service is determined by the later of certified mail receipt, personal service
or publication date.
      (4)   The accused violator (owner/agent/occupant) may request in writing
a hearing before the governing body of the city within five days after notice
of violation is served or published. For tree nuisance violations the period
for requesting a hearing is extended to 30 days after service.
      (5)   If no request for a hearing is received in the required time
period, the governing body may cause a hearing to be held. This option is at
the sole discretion of the governing body to be used in exceptional cases.
      (6)   If a hearing is requested, the City Clerk shall fix date of said
hearing to be no later than 15 days from receipt of the request for the
hearing. Notice of the hearing and with the date and time shall be served upon
the agent, owner, and of the nuisance property by certified and regular mail.
      (7)   The hearing shall be a show cause hearing in which the agent,
owner, occupant of the nuisance property (objecting property) shall provide
evidence why the alleged condition should not be found to be a public nuisance
and remedied. This hearing shall be heard before a quorum of the governing
body. The presiding official of the governing body may conduct the hearing or
the presiding official may appoint another person as the hearing officer to
conduct the hearing (the hearing officer may be the City Attorney or the
Enforcement Officer). At the hearing the hearing officer shall mark and receive
evidence which was presented when the finding of a nuisance was made, relevant
evidence of the nuisance since that time, and evidence that the notices were
properly given. The objecting party shall then provide its evidence. The rules
of evidence is not required at said hearing, but all evidence must be relevant
to the particular nuisance being heard. Testimony shall be under oath as
administered by the hearing officer or any person so designated by the hearing
officer, and the person providing the testimony is subject to the laws of
perjury. Evidence may be submitted in writing by affidavit.
      (8)   No later than 14 days after the hearing and consideration of the
evidence, the governing board may by majority vote rescind the resolution of
violation. If the resolution of violation is not rescinded, it shall stand.
Furthermore, if the objector or its designated agent fails to appear at the
hearing or does not provide evidence, the nuisance shall stand. If the
resolution is not rescinded, he governing board may, by resolution, extend the
date that owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee shall abate and remedy the said
public nuisance, but in no case shall this time exceed 60 days. The findings of
the governing board shall be made no later than 14 days after the hearing and
notice of its finding shall be served upon the objecting party by regular U.S.
mail within five days of the finding. The finding of this hearing is final,
provided that an interested party or parties may appeal such decision to the
appropriate court for adjudication.
      (9)   If the Nuisance Officer determines the nuisance is not remedied and
abated within the time period designated, the city shall cause the abatement of
the nuisance.
      (10) If an interested party properly appeals to an appropriate court the
findings and orders of the city, the city actions shall be stayed during until
such time that the legal proceedings are completed or dismissed. In cases of
appeal from an action of the city condemning real property as a nuisance or as
dangerous under the police powers of the municipality, the owners of the
adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before trial.
   (C)   Penal court enforcement procedure.
      (1)   If the declared nuisance, health, or sanitation are not abated
within 15 days that the notice is served upon the owner and/or occupant, and
the City Clerk has not received a request for hearing, the Nuisance Officer may
cause issue of a citation for the code violation.
      (2)   The citation shall be prosecuted to the appropriate court by the
City Attorney or other designated prosecutor for the city.
   (D)   Civil court procedure. The governing board may instruct by resolution
the City Attorney to file a civil action for the abatement of a nuisance. The
civil suit may commence after 15 days notice has been served as stated in §
90.063, and may be filed and prosecuted at the same time any other enforcement
procedure has commenced, terminated or in progress.
(Ord. 2014-03, passed 3-24-2014) Penalty, see § 93.999
§ 90.064 EXPENSES.
   (A)   When the city has effected the abatement of the nuisance, health or
sanitation violation through either city employees or through contract with a
third party and has incurred expenses and costs thereof, the actual cost
thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession,
charge or control of such property. The billing shall be calculated at the
actual cost of abating the nuisance plus a $25 administrative fee.
   (B)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the owner
of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer's office by regular
U.S. mail.
   (C)   If the costs are not paid within two months after the work is done and
one month after the expenses and costs are submitted to the owner and/or
occupant, the city may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the real
estate benefitted by the actions in the same manner as other special
assessments are levied and assessed, and the city may collect the assessments
in the same procedure as other special assessments are collected. The city may
also recover said expenses and costs of abating the nuisance, health or
sanitation violations in a civil action in the courts of the appropriate county
in the state.
(Ord. 2014-03, passed 3-24-2014)
TREES
§ 90.075 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the corporate
limits of the municipality. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this section, the municipal police shall have the authority to enter upon
private property to inspect the trees thereon.
   (C)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to a
hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within 30 days after the receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
municipality may have such work done and may levy and assess all or any portion
of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so
benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are
levied or assessed.
(1997 Code, § 4-305) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555, 28-1321
§ 90.076 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top, round off or pollard any street tree, park tree or other
tree on public property. TOPPING, ROUNDING OFF or POLLARDING is defined as the
systematic cutting back of limbs within the tree’s crown to such a degree as to
remove the natural canopy and disfigure the tree.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Violation; penalty. Any person who shall violate or refuse to
comply with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter for which
no other specific penalty is specified, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 4-401)
      (2)   Abatement of nuisance.
         (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
         (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order
of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1997 Code, § 4-402)
   (B)    Nuisances, §§
90.060 to
90.064. 
      (1)   A person or persons found guilty of violation of §§
90.060 to
90.064 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined up to $500 per each offense.
      (2)   Each day that the nuisance as identified in the nuisance resolution
and notice, is not abated shall be a separate offense and subject to a separate
fine.
(1997 Code, § 4-303) (Ord. 2009-1, passed 1-20-2009; Ord. 2014-03, passed 3-24-
2014)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
91.01   License
   
91.02   License tags
   
91.03   Wrongful licensing
   
91.04   Owner defined
   
91.05   Proclamation
   
91.06   Uncollared
   
91.07   Running at large
   
91.08   Capture impossible
   
91.09   Barking and offensive
   
91.10   Liability of owner
   
91.11   Removal of tags
   
91.12   Impounding
   
91.13   Rabies suspected
   
91.14   Defecation; removal of
Dangerous Dogs
   
91.25   Definitions
   
91.26   Declaration, requirements, restraint
   
91.27   Prohibited dogs; injury
   
91.28   Failure to comply
Dogs; Kennels
   
91.40   Definition
   
91.41   Maintenance
   
91.42   Occupation tax
Animals Generally
   
91.55   Prohibited areas and uses
   
91.56   Animals running at large
   
91.57   Enclosures
   
91.58   Fowls running at large
 
   
91.99   Penalty
DOGS
§ 91.01 LICENSE.
   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of six months
within the municipality shall within 30 days after acquisition of the said dog
acquire a license for each such dog annually by or before the first day of
January of each year. The said tax shall be delinquent from and after March 10;
provided, the possessor of any dog brought into or harbored within the
corporate limits subsequent to January 1 of any year shall be liable for the
payment of the dog tax levied herein. Licenses shall be issued by the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer upon the payment of the license fee of $3 for each male dog and
spayed female dog and $3 for each unspayed female dog. Said license shall not
be transferable and no refund shall be allowed in case of death, sale or other
disposition of the licensed dog. The owner shall state at the time the
application is made and upon printed forms provided for such purpose, his or
her name, address and the name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned and kept
by him or her. A certificate that the dog has had a rabies shot, effective for
the ensuing year of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied
for and no license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
(1997 Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 2007-04, passed 5-1-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, 71-4412
§ 91.02 LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue to the owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each
dog so licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or
harness of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor
the said dog until December 31 following such licensing. In the event that a
license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence that the original plate or
tag was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for
which the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee set by
resolution of the governing body for each duplicate or new tag so issued. All
license fees and collections shall be immediately credited to the General Fund.
It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
(1997 Code, § 6-102)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603
§ 91.03 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other municipal
identification than that issued by the Municipal Clerk- Treasurer for dogs, nor
shall the owner, keeper or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an
unspayed female dog with a license prescribed for a male or spayed female dog.
(1997 Code, § 6-103) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603
§ 91.04 OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for ten days or more in
or about his or her house, store or enclosure, or to remain to be fed, shall be
deemed the OWNER and POSSESSOR of such dog and shall be deemed to be liable for
all penalties herein prescribed.
(1997 Code, § 6-104) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-606, 71-4401
§ 91.05 PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the governing body, whenever in its opinion the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more
than 90 days from the date of such proclamation, or until such danger is
passed. The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house,
garage or yard on the premises wherein the said owner may reside. Upon issuing
the proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping or
harboring any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
(1997 Code, § 6-105) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 91.06 UNCOLLARED.
   All dogs found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of the
municipality without a collar or harness are hereby declared a public nuisance.
(1997 Code, § 6-106) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-605
§ 91.07 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run at
large at any time within the corporate limits of the municipality. It shall be
the duty of the municipal police to cause any dog found to be running at large
within the municipality to be taken up and impounded. RUNNING AT LARGE shall
mean any dog found off the premises of the owner, and not under control of the
owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage
of other suitable means of physical restraint.
(1997 Code, § 6-107) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The municipal police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing
vicious tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(1997 Code, § 6-108)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-605
§ 91.09 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog which by
loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall annoy or disturb
any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets or alleys in the municipality. Upon the written
complaint of two or more affected persons from different households, filed
within any 30-day period with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, that any dog owned
by the person named in the complaint is an annoyance or disturbance, or
otherwise violates the provisions of this section the municipal police shall
investigate the complaint and, if in their opinion the situation warrants,
shall notify the owner to silence and restrain such dog.
(1997 Code, § 6-113) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 91.10 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept or
harbored by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or
destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to another
person.
   (B)   The owner or possessor of any such dog, in addition to the usual
judgment upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in
an amount equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(1997 Code, § 6-114) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602
§ 91.11 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(1997 Code, § 6-115) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 91.12 IMPOUNDING.
   It shall be the duty of the municipal police or the person designated by the
governing body to capture, secure and remove in a humane manner to the
veterinary clinic any dog violating any of the provisions of this chapter. The
dogs so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided
with sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day. The owner of each dog
bearing a license shall be personally notified of the dog’s intended
impoundment, and given an opportunity to retrieve the animal. Each impounded
dog bearing tags shall be kept and maintained at the pound for a period of not
less than five days after notice has been given, unless reclaimed earlier by
the owner. Any dog bearing tags may be reclaimed by its owner during the period
of impoundment by payment of the costs of the veterinary clinic. Any unlicensed
dog shall be kept and maintained at the impoundment for a period of not less
than three days after the owner, if known, is notified of such impoundment,
which notice shall be given personally to the owner. Any untagged dog may be
reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment, by payment of a fine,
all costs of the veterinary clinic and compliance with the licensing and rabies
vaccination requirements prior to release. If the dog is not claimed at the end
of the impoundment period, the police may dispose of the dog in accordance with
the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same; provided, that if
in the judgment of the municipal police a suitable home can be found for such
dog within the municipality, the said dog shall be turned over to that person
and the new owner shall be required to pay all veterinary fees and meet all
licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this subchapter. The
municipality shall acquire title to any unlicensed dog impounded in the animal
shelter for a period longer than three days after giving notice, and shall
acquire legal title to any licensed dog impounded in the animal shelter for a
period longer than five days after giving notice. All dogs shall be destroyed
and buried in the summary and humane manner as prescribed by the Board of
Health unless a suitable home can be found for such dog.
(1997 Code, § 6-116) (Ord. 2007-03, passed 4-17-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548, 71-4408
§ 91.13 RABIES SUSPECTED.
   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog not vaccinated
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter which has bitten any person
and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded under the
supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten days. If
upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs of rabies at
the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner, or, in the case
of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions
herein. If the owner of the said dog has proof of vaccination, it shall be
confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of at least
ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian.
If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be released from confinement.
(1997 Code, § 6-117)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 91.14 DEFECATION; REMOVAL OF.
   (A)   It is the duty of each person in control of a dog or other animal to
promptly remove and dispose of, in a sanitary manner, feces left by such dog on
any city park or property.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each person in control of a dog or other
animal to be in possession of materials to remove feces left by such dog on any
city park or property.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-3-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 91.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal control
laws of the city, and includes any local law enforcement agency or any other
agency designated by the city to enforce the animal control laws of the city.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized by
an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of §§
91.25 through
91.28 or any other  law or ordinance relating to the licensure of animals,
control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and includes any
state or local law enforcement officer or other employee whose duties in whole
or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that has inflicted injury upon a human being that required
medical treatment by a physician or any other licensed health care
professional.
      (2)   (a)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG under division
(1) of this definition if the individual was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting
the dog at the time of the injury or has, in the past, been observed or
reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG under division (1)
of this definition if the injury, damage, or threat was sustained by an
individual who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass; was committing
any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog; was tormenting,
abusing, or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed or reported
to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog; or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl, and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area, or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
   MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or any other
licensed health care professional.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision,
or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or custody of a
dog.
   PROHIBITED BREEDS. The following breeds shall be prohibited and or banned
from being within the city limits of Arapahoe at any time. These breeds are as
follows: pit bulls and Staffordshire terriers, rottweilers, and any cross breed
that contains one or more of those breeds. With reference to those who own
these breeds and have been licensed within the City of Arapahoe prior to
January 1, 2017, the animal will be grandfathered in as acceptable. If the
animal control officer has reason believe that the dog is prohibited, the owner
may request a DNA test. The cost of this test will be the responsibility of the
owner if the test confirms the breed as one or more of the prohibited breeds.
The City of Arapahoe will be responsible for the cost of this test if the breed
of the dog is confirmed as a breed or combination of breeds that is not on this
list.
(1997 Code, § 6-109) (Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-20-2008; Ord. 2008-08, passed 11-
4-2008; Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-6-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-617
§ 91.26 DECLARATION, REQUIREMENTS, RESTRAINT.
   (A)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed or
neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
   (B)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or leash
with a length of no more than four feet, under the direct control of the owner.
(1997 Code, § 6-110) (Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-20-2008; Ord. 2008-08, passed 11-
4-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-618
§ 91.27 PROHIBITED DOGS; INJURY.
   (A)   The owner of any dog that is listed as a prohibited dog shall be
guilty of a Class IIIA misdemeanor, and the dog shall be treated as provided in
§
91.99 (D)(2).
   (B)   Any dog that inflicts injury upon a human being that requires medical
treatment shall be treated as set forth in § 91.99(D)(2) and the owner of this
animal shall be treated as set forth in §
91.99 (D)(1).
(1997 Code, § 6-111) (Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-20-2008; Ord. 2008-08, passed 11-
4-2008; Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-6-2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-619
§ 91.28 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any prohibited breed listed shall be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of §§
91.25 through
91.28; and the owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by
the animal control authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an
animal control officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the
action by the animal control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner
violated §§
91.25 through
91.28.
(1997 Code, § 6-112) (Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-20-2008; Ord. 2008-08, passed 11-
4-2008; Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-6-2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-620
DOGS; KENNELS
§ 91.40 DEFINITION.
   Any person, persons, partnership or corporation keeping under his, her or
their care, custody, control or possession, within the municipal limits of the
city, or one-half mile outside of said city limits, of the city, three or more
dogs over two months of age, shall be deemed to be maintaining a KENNEL.
(1997 Code, § 6-118)
§ 91.41 MAINTENANCE.
   All dogs within a kennel shall be kept in an enclosed premises subject to
the approval of the conditions by the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 6-119)
§ 91.42 OCCUPATION TAX.
   All kennels shall pay an annual occupation tax of $250. The year for the
payment of such occupation tax shall begin on January 1 and expire on December
31 of each year. The tax shall not be prorated on a monthly basis.
(1997 Code, § 6-120)
ANIMALS GENERALLY
§ 91.55 PROHIBITED AREAS AND USES.
   The keeping or maintaining of any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine or
other livestock, or of any chicken, turkey, geese or other fowl shall be
subject to the following regulations, and any keeping or maintaining of any
livestock or fowl not in conformity shall constitute a nuisance and a violation
of this section.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, possess or assemble for sale, or to sell
livestock at public or private sale within the municipality in any area
thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep, possess or assemble any livestock or
poultry for the purpose of slaughter or to slaughter any livestock in the
municipality.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain any livestock or poultry in
the municipality, for exhibition or public display or for entertainment
purposes, without obtaining a permit from the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer;
provided such permits shall be limited to agricultural, entertainment or
educational purposes and shall require compliance with regulations therefore as
determined and established by resolution of the governing body for the
protection of public health, safety and welfare.
(1997 Code, § 6-201) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.56 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any animal, or any
person having the charge, custody or control thereof, to permit a horse, mule,
cow, sheep, goat, swine or other animal to be driven or run at large on any of
the public ways and property, or upon the property of another, or to be
tethered or staked out in such a manner so as to allow such animal to reach or
pass into any public way.
(1997 Code, § 6-202) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 91.57 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement or animals and fowls not specifically barred within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace
or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the said enclosure is located.
(1997 Code, § 6-203) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.58 FOWLS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens, turkeys,
geese or any other fowls to run at large within the corporate limits, except in
enclosed places on private property.
(1997 Code, § 6-204) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Violation; penalty. Any person who shall violate or refuse to
comply with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth
at full length herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(1997 Code, § 6-401)
      (2)   Abatement of nuisance.
         (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 90, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
         (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order
of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1997 Code, § 6-402)
   (B)   Impounding, §
91.12. Any untagged dog may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundment, by payment of a fine of $25, all costs of the veterinary clinic,
and compliance with the licensing and rabies vaccination requirements prior to
release.
(1997 Code, § 6-116)
   (C)   Defecation, §
91.14. Violation of §
91.14 is unlawful and any violation shall be punishable upon conviction by a
fine of not less than $200. Each act in contravention of §
91.14 is a separate offense.
   (D)   Dangerous dogs. §§
91.25 through
91.28.
      (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
91.25 through
91.28 shall not own a prohibited or dangerous dog within ten years after such
conviction. Any person violating this division shall be guilty of a Class IIIA
misdemeanor, and the dog shall be treated as provided in division (D)(2) below.
      (2)   For any prohibited breed or any dog that has inflicted injury on a
human being requiring medical treatment, the owner shall be guilty of a Class
IIIA misdemeanor. In addition, the prohibited dog and or animal that has
attacked or bitten a human being requiring medical treatment shall be
immediately confiscated by an animal control authority, placed in quarantine
for the proper length of time, and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and
humane manner.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 4-17-2007; Ord. 2013-06, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 2016-08,
passed 12-6-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Definitions
Municipal Property
   
92.015   Maintenance and control
   
92.016   Obstructions
   
92.017   Sale and conveyance
   
92.018   Signs and canopies
   
92.019   Acquisition of real property
   
92.020   Acquisition of property; appraisal
Sidewalks
   
92.035   Overhanging branches
   
92.036   Kept clean
   
92.037   Maintenance
   
92.038   Repair
   
92.039   Construction by owner
   
92.040   Municipal construction
Streets
   
92.055   Names and numbers
   
92.056   Crossings
   
92.057   Widening or opening
   
92.058   Excavation
   
92.059   Driving stakes
   
92.060   Mixing concrete
   
92.061   Harmful liquids
   
92.062   Heavy equipment
   
92.063   Construction assessment
Curb and Gutter
   
92.075   Cutting into curb, gutter or pavement
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definition shall be applied throughout this chapter. When no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(1997 Code, § 8-101)
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 92.015 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The governing body shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and
free from nuisances.
(1997 Code, § 8-102)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 92.016 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs, growing upon, or near, the lot line, or upon public ground
and interfering with the use, or construction of any public improvements shall
be deemed an obstruction under this chapter. Said trees, shrubs and their roots
may be removed by the municipality at the expense of the owner of the property
upon which the tree or shrub is located should the owner fail, or neglect,
after notice, to do so. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or
corporation to obstruct, or encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures
or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks.
(1997 Code, § 8-103) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 92.017 SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the power of the
municipality to convey any real and personal property owned by it, including
land used for park purposes and public squares, except real property used in
the operation of public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing
the sale at public auction or by sealed bid of such real and personal property
and the manner and terms thereof, except that such real and personal property
shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
         (a)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements
of federal or state grants or programs;
         (b)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
         (c)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
      (2)   The governing body may establish a minimum price for such real and
personal property at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for
a sealed bid.
   (B)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real and personal property described in division (A) above
and the terms thereof, shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
municipality; provided, if a remonstrance against such sale, signed by
registered voters thereof equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of
the municipality voting at the last regular municipal election held therein, be
filed with the governing body within 30 days after the third publication of the
notice, such property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold.
If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the municipality may
be conveyed without consideration to the State of Nebraska for state armory
sites or, if acquired for state armory sites, such property shall be conveyed
strictly in accordance with the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 to 18-1006.
   (C)   (1)   The property shall then be sold following:
         (a)   Passage of the resolution directing a sale;
         (b)   Publishing of the notice of the proposed sale; and
         (c)   Passing of the 30-day right of remonstrance period.
      (2)   Such sale shall be confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the
name of the purchaser and terms of the sale. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
shall upon passage of such ordinance certify the name of the purchaser to the
Register of Deeds of the county in which the property is located.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the sale of real and personal property
if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of an item or items of real and
personal property the total fair market value of which is less than $5,000.
Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice
of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the municipality
for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property.
Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(1997 Code, § 8-104)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503, 17-503.01
§ 92.018 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   No person, firm or corporation shall erect, or maintain, any sign,
signboard, poster or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley or on other
public property without having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits for
signs, canopies, posters and signboards shall be issued by the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer, subject to the approval of the Chief Street Official, upon the
payment of a fee set by resolution of the governing body. All signs and
canopies extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public
place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there will be no danger
of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds, or falling from other causes. No
sign or canopy shall be erected or maintained which extends over any public
sidewalk, street, alley or other public place in such a location as to obstruct
the view of any traffic light, sign or signal. Upon the written order of the
governing body, any person owning or occupying the premises where such a sign,
canopy, poster or signboard is located, shall cause the same to be removed
within the time limit specified on such notice.
(1997 Code, § 8-105) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.019 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   When acquiring an interest in real property by purchase or eminent domain,
the municipality shall do so only after the governing body has authorized the
acquisition by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public
hearing.
(1997 Code, § 8-106)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1755
§ 92.020 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   The municipality shall not purchase, lease-purchase or acquire for
consideration real property having an estimated value of $100,000 or more
unless an appraisal of such property has been performed by a certified real
estate appraiser.
(1997 Code, § 8-107)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-403
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.035 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any sidewalk over which there extends the branches of trees shall
at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the height of at
least eight feet above the surface of the walk. Whenever the limbs or branches
of any tree or trees extend over sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so
as to interfere with the lighting of the street from street lights or with the
convenience of the public using said sidewalk, the governing body at any
regular or special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant
to cut or remove said obstructions within five days after having received a
copy thereof from the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer stating that the municipality
will remove said branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant
as a special assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said resolution
is not complied with. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the
county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known
address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such
required notice was first published.
(1997 Code, § 8-201)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 92.036 KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 8:30 a.m. the
following day; provided, sidewalks within the residential areas of the
municipality shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
(1997 Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 92.037 MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, lots or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous to said
lot, lots or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper repair, and
in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers thereon. In the
event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots or lands, abutting on any
street, avenue, or part thereof shall fail to construct or repair any sidewalk
in front of his, her or their lot, lots or lands, within the time and in the
manner as directed and required herein after having received due notice to do
so, he, she or they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by
reason of the defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the
governing body shall have power to cause any such sidewalks to be constructed
or repaired and assess the costs thereof against such property. In the event
the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies,
the municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(1997 Code, § 8-203) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 92.038 REPAIR.
   The municipal official in charge of sidewalks may require sidewalks of the
municipality to be repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which such
sidewalks in disrepair are located shall require, within 48 hours from issuance
of notice, said owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. Said
repairs shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of said notice. No
special assessment shall be levied against the property unless said owner shall
neglect or refuse to repair within the time prescribed and in the event that
such owner fails to repair, the municipality shall cause the repairs to be made
and assess the property owner the expense of such repairs. In the event the
property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the
municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(1997 Code, § 8-204) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.039 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file
such application in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The permit
shall give a description of the lot, or piece of land along which the sidewalk
is to be constructed. The official in charge of sidewalks shall issue the
desired permit unless good cause shall appear why said permit should be denied;
provided, if it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the
regularly prescribed location, grade or elevation, the municipal official in
charge of sidewalks shall submit the application to the governing body who
shall determine whether the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be
unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be constructed said sidewalk
at any other location, grade or elevation than so designated by the
municipality. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established
grade or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or
elevation indicated by the municipal official in charge of sidewalks.
(1997 Code, § 8-205) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.040 MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality. Notice of the
governing body’s intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer by publication of notice one time in a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.
   (B)   A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property, or, when personal service is not possible, said
notice shall be posted upon such premises ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the
Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such
service shall include a form of return evidencing personal service or posting
as herein required.
   (C)   Said notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage of
the resolution ordering him or her to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication and further that if he or
she fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and
the cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premises; provided, the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost
of said construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall
be assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(1997 Code, § 8-206) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522, 17-523
STREETS
§ 92.055 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The governing body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
governing body may require. It shall be the duty of the municipal official in
charge of streets, upon the erection of any new building or buildings to assign
the proper numbers to said building or buildings and give notice to the owner
or owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
(1997 Code, § 8-301)
§ 92.056 CROSSINGS.
   The governing body may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the municipal official in charge of streets, such street, avenue
and alley crossings as the governing body shall deem necessary. When a petition
for the construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident
in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, said Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
shall refer such application to the Chief Street Official who shall investigate
and make his or her recommendation to the governing body. Action by the
governing body on such application, whether the application is approved or
rejected, shall be considered final.
(1997 Code, § 8-302)
§ 92.057 WIDENING OR OPENING.
   The governing body shall have the power to open or widen any street, alley
or lane within the limits of the municipality; to create, open and improve any
new street, alley or lane; provided, all damages sustained shall be ascertained
in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
(1997 Code, § 8-303)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558, 17-559, 76-704 through
76-724
§ 92.058 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Chief Municipal Street Official authorizing such excavations.
(1997 Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 92.059 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Chief Municipal Street Official.
(1997 Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.060 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(1997 Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.061 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon said streets.
(1997 Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.062 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or person to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the municipal police are hereby
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or metal-type
studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive of the
stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more
than seven sixty-fourths of an inch between November 1 and March 15; provided,
that school buses and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or
metal-type studs all year. It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with
tires having protuberances which will not injure the streets. It shall be
permissible to use a rubber-tired crane with a fixed load when such vehicle
will be transported on a state highway or on any road within the corporate
limits of the municipality, the municipality in which the crane is intended to
be transported has authorized a one-day permit for the transportation of the
crane and specified the route to be used and the hours during which the crane
can be transported, such vehicle is escorted by another vehicle or vehicles
assigned by the municipality, and it shall be permissible to use tire chains of
reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of
snow, ice or other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
(1997 Code, § 8-308) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,250
§ 92.063 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon or especially benefitting from the street, avenue,
alley or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, extended, constructed
or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body sitting as the Board of
Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with the
procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
governing body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as special assessments for improvements and with the
cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition to
the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer forthwith after the date of levy,
for collection by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified.
After it shall become delinquent said assessment shall draw interest at the
legal interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a nonresident
of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before
levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last
known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time
such required notice was first published.
(1997 Code, § 8-309) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511, 17-524, 19-2428 through
19-2431, 45-104.01
CURB AND GUTTER
§ 92.075 CUTTING INTO CURB, GUTTER OR PAVEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for any purpose whatsoever.
   (B)   All cutting shall be done by the municipality and the cost of such
cutting shall be reimbursed to the municipality by the person requesting such
cutting.
(1997 Code, § 8-401) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 8-501)
CHAPTER 93: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Collection and disposal
   
93.03   Contracts for service
   
93.04   Mandatory service; billing
   
93.05   Hazardous waste or waste requiring special handling
   
93.06   Additional regulations
   
93.07   Service charges; delinquency; collection
   
93.08   Nuisance abatement
   
93.09   Dead animals
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attend the preparation,
use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste designated or defined as a hazardous waste by
N.A.C. Title 128; Rules and Regulations Governing Hazardous Waste Management in
Nebraska, which for purposes or general definition is a solid waste which,
because of quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in mortality or
an increase in serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible, illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
and include garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue,
street cleanings, industrial wastes and other such wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
wood, glass, bedding, crockery or litter of any kind that will be a detriment
to the public health and safety.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse or sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility and other
discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial and mining operations and from
community activities.
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(1997 Code, § 4-201)
§ 93.02 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   The municipality shall provide or contract for the collection and disposal
of nonhazardous solid waste from residential, commercial, institutional and
governmental premises within its solid waste jurisdiction area. Such wastes
shall be collected on a regularly scheduled basis and shall be disposed of only
in a licensed landfill facility approved by the governing body and which meets
all state and federal criteria. The governing body shall approve and is
authorized to contract with any such licensed landfill facility for these
purposes.
(1997 Code, § 4-202)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020
§ 93.03 CONTRACTS FOR SERVICE.
   The municipality may contract with independent contractors to provide for
the collection and disposal of nonhazardous solid waste. Any such contractor
shall enter into a written agreement with the municipality, which agreement
shall provide for the rates to be charged and such other terms and conditions
as may be required by the governing body.
(1997 Code, § 4-203)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020
§ 93.04 MANDATORY SERVICE; BILLING.
   (A)   Every residential, commercial, institutional and governmental building
or premises in municipal solid waste jurisdiction area which is served by the
Municipal Electrical System shall be served by the solid waste collection and
disposal service system offered by the municipality and shall be subject to the
assessment and payment of charges for such service as set from time to time by
the governing body. The municipality may also agree to provide such service to
persons who do not live within the corporate limits of the municipality but who
are served by municipal utilities or who are within such close distance to the
corporate limits of the municipality as to make such service economical and
practical for the municipality and its contracted hauler or haulers.
   (B)   Charges for solid waste disposal services shall be billed and
collected in the same manner as utility bills pursuant to §
50.01 of this code of ordinances.
(1997 Code, § 4-204)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2027
§ 93.05 HAZARDOUS WASTE OR WASTE REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING.
   Any person, firm or corporation within the municipal solid waste
jurisdiction area who generates or creates hazardous waste or waste requiring
special handling or disposal shall be responsible for the transportation and
disposal of the same. All such handling and disposal shall in all respects
comply with state and federal laws and regulations pertaining to the specific
type of waste generated.
(1997 Code, § 4-205) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023, 13-2026
§ 93.06 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The governing body may, from time to time, make and adopt by ordinance such
additional rules and regulations governing the use, operation and control of
the solid waste collection and disposal system and the regulation of solid
waste with the municipal solid waste jurisdiction area as it may deem necessary
to promote the efficient operation and management of the system and to protect
the environment and the health, safety and welfare of all persons within the
municipal solid waste jurisdiction area.
(1997 Code, § 4-206)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023, 13-2026
§ 93.07 SERVICE CHARGES; DELINQUENCY; COLLECTION.
   If the charges for solid waste collection and disposal service established
pursuant to §
93.04 are not paid when due, such sum may be recovered by the municipality in a
civil action or, following notice by regular United States mail to the last-
known address of the property owner of record and an opportunity for a hearing,
may be certified by the governing body to the County Treasurer and assessed
against the premises served and collected or returned in the same manner as
other taxes are certified, assessed, collected and returned.
(1997 Code, § 4-207)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020
§ 93.08 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful, and declared to be a nuisance, for any person to keep
in, on or about any dwelling, building or premises, or any other place within
the municipal solid waste jurisdiction area, decayed vegetable or animal
substance, garbage or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious to the
public health or offensive to the residents of the municipality unless the same
is kept in approved receptacles as nearly air-tight as may be practical. It
shall be unlawful, and declared to be a nuisance, to throw or sweep into the
streets, alleys, parks or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces
of glass, garbage, refuse or rubbish of any kind. No person shall permit
garbage, refuse or rubbish to collect and all persons shall remove the same
within 24 hours after being notified to do so by the Board of Health.
(1997 Code, § 4-208) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 93.09 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner of
such animals; and if the owner of such animal cannot be found within two hours
after discovering the same, then such animal shall be removed by and at the
expense of the municipality. Dead animals shall not be buried within the
corporate limits of the municipality, nor within one mile thereof, nor in or
above the course of ground water that is used for drinking purposes by the
municipality or its inhabitants.
(1997 Code, § 4-209) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; penalty. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply
with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at
full length herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(1997 Code, § 4-401)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 90, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1997 Code, § 4-402)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 94: MUNICIPAL PARKS
Section
   
94.01   Operation and funding
   
94.02   Injury to property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal parks and other
recreational areas through the Park Committee. The governing body, for the
purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the
municipal park may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Park Fund and shall remain in
the custody of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Park Committee shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the efficient management of the
municipal parks and other recreational areas of the municipality. The Park
Committee shall not enter into a contract of any nature which involves an
expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses, unless the
contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the members of the
governing body prior to the contractual agreement.
(1997 Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
§ 94.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any person
to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy any
building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table or any other property of
the municipal parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste on
or litter the municipal parks or other public grounds.
(1997 Code, § 3-602) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 3-901)
CHAPTER 95: MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL
Section
   
95.01   Operation and funding
   
95.02   Rules and regulations
   
95.03   Admission charge
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The governing
body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance and
improvements of the swimming pool, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the municipality that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Park Fund and
shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other
valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for
the purpose of endowing the municipal parks and swimming pool. The Park Fund
shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Park
Committee shall manage the swimming pool. The Park Committee shall have the
power and authority to hire and supervise the swimming pool manager and such
employees as it may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and regulations
for the operation of the swimming pool as may be proper for its efficient
operation. All actions by the Park Committee shall be under the supervision and
control of the governing body.
(1997 Code, § 3-701)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951, 17-952
§ 95.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Park Committee shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws, rules
and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming pool and for the
efficient management thereof. They may provide suitable penalties for the
violation of such bylaws, rules and regulations subject to the review and
supervision of the governing body.
(1997 Code, § 3-702)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 95.03 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The Park Committee may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved
in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the swimming pool, make a
reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the municipal swimming
pool. The said charges shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal
swimming pool for public inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes
of persons in a reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be
construed to permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color
or national origin in the classification of persons for admission charges.
(1997 Code, § 3-703)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 3-901)
CHAPTER 96: MUNICIPAL LIBRARY
Section
   
96.01   Operation and funding
   
96.02   Books
   
96.03   Rules and regulations
   
96.04   Books issued
   
96.05   Damaged and lost books
   
96.06   Book removal
   
96.07   Cost of use
   
96.08   Money collected
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal library through the Library
Board. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements and maintenance of the library, may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Library Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests or other valuable income-producing personal property and
real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the municipal library.
The Library Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to appoint the
librarian and to hire such other employees as it may deem necessary and may
pass such other rules and regulations for the operation of the library as may
be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under
the supervision and control of the governing body.
(1997 Code, § 3-801)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201, 51-202, 51-211
§ 96.02 BOOKS.
   (A)   The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange or disposal of any
surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete or duplicate books in the library.
   (B)   Records shall be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective,
obsolete or duplicate books so disposed of.
(1997 Code, § 3-802)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-207
§ 96.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the municipal library for the preservation and efficient management thereof.
They shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books or other property, or for failure
to return a book. All fees, penalties and forfeitures may be collected in civil
action in the event of failure, neglect or refusal to pay the said assessments.
(1997 Code, § 3-803) Penalty, see §
96.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-205, 51-214
§ 96.04 BOOKS ISSUED.
   The librarian shall keep, or cause to be kept, a register of all books
issued and returned at the time they shall so be issued and returned. None of
the books shall be detained more than 14 days without being renewed. No book
may be renewed more than two consecutive times by any person without the
special permission of the librarian or an authorized employee of the municipal
library.
(1997 Code, § 3-804)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-211
§ 96.05 DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any book taken from the library
shall forfeit and pay to the library not less than the value of the book in
addition to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library Board may
assess.
(1997 Code, § 3-805)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-211
§ 96.06 BOOK REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations
made by the Library Board to take a book from the library, without the consent
of the librarian, or an authorized employee of the library.
   (B)   Any person removing a book from the library without properly checking
it out shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
(1997 Code, § 3-806) Penalty, see §
96.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-211
§ 96.07 COST OF USE.
   The municipal library shall be free for the use of the inhabitants of the
municipality. The librarian may exclude from the use of the library and reading
rooms any person who shall willfully violate or refuse to comply with the rules
and regulations established for the government thereof.
(1997 Code, § 3-807)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201, 51-212
§ 96.08 MONEY COLLECTED.
   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over monthly by the
librarian to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer along with a report of the sources
of the revenue.
(1997 Code, § 3-808)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-209
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 3-901)
CHAPTER 97: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
Fires
   
97.01   Preservation of property
   
97.02   Disorderly spectator
   
97.03   Fire equipment
   
97.04   Interference with firefighter
   
97.05   Obstruction
   
97.06   Mandatory assistance
   
97.07   Impersonating firefighters
   
97.08   Driving over fire hose
   
97.09   Traffic control
   
97.10   False alarm
   
97.11   Pedestrian control
Fire Prevention
   
97.25   Fire Prevention Code
   
97.26   Fire Code enforcement
   
97.27   Lawful entry
   
97.28   Violation; notice
   
97.29   Fire limits defined
   
97.30   Fire limits materials
   
97.31   Repair required
   
97.32   Removal required
   
97.33   Determination of damage
   
97.34   Fires regulated
   
97.35   Open burning ban; waiver
Poisonous and Flammable Gases and Explosives
   
97.50   Storage registration
   
97.51   Storage of flammable liquids
 
   
97.99   Penalty
FIRES
§ 97.01 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the
purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(1997 Code, § 7-101)
§ 97.02 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse to obey
the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The Fire
Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during such
time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the performance of
their official duties.
(1997 Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 97.03 FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(1997 Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 97.04 INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(1997 Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 97.05 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within 15 feet of the said hydrant. Any vehicle
or material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire
Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost and expense of
the owner or claimant.
(1997 Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 97.06 MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department may command the assistance and
services of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire, or
in the removal and protection of property. In the event that a spectator
refuses, neglects or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order
to do so, he or she shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(1997 Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.07 IMPERSONATING FIREFIGHTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely personate a firefighter by
wearing a badge or other apparel usually worn by a firefighter for the purpose
of obtaining any benefit whatsoever. Nothing herein shall be construed to
prohibit the theatrical representation of a firefighter for bona fide
entertainment purposes when there is no intent to defraud.
(1997 Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-609
§ 97.08 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(1997 Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,184
§ 97.09 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected. Nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying doctors, members of the
Fire Department or emergency vehicles.
(1997 Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,183
§ 97.10 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(1997 Code, § 7-110) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907, 35-520
§ 97.11 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(1997 Code, § 7-111) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 97.25 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal of the State of Nebraska relating to fire prevention are incorporated
by reference into this code and made a part of this subchapter as though spread
at large herein together with all subsequent amendments thereto.
   (B)   One copy of the Fire Prevention Code shall be on file with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(1997 Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 19-922, 81-502
§ 97.26 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the
incorporated Fire Code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately
brought to the attention of the Fire Chief. The Fire Chief shall grant or deny
applications for any matter provided in the incorporated Code or by the
governing body. Whenever the Chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to
grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the
Code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the Code have been
misconstrued or wrongfully interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision to the Chief and the governing body within 30 days from the date of
the decision appealed.
   (B)   The Chief shall have the power to modify any of the provisions of the
Code hereby adopted upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his
or her duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of the Code; provided, that the spirit of the
Code shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The
particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of
the Chief thereon shall be entered upon the records of the department and a
signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(1997 Code, § 7-202)
§ 97.27 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(1997 Code, § 7-203)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 97.28 VIOLATION; NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the said
ordinance or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of such
notice.
(1997 Code, § 7-204) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.29 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits:
      Block 36, the west half of block 35; Block 49 and 50, east half of Block
64; east half of Block 8; and east half of Block 21, Lot 6 in Block 8; west
half of Block 7 and 22; Lot 1 in Block 9; all in the original Town of Arapahoe,
and as shown on the recorded plat thereof; a tract of land 140 feet east by 150
feet north of the southwest corner of Lot 6, North Addition to said City and
Lots 4, 5 and 6, Block 16, Colvin’s Addition to City of Arapahoe.
(1997 Code, § 7-205)
§ 97.30 FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with walls constructed
wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete or other such
noncombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the said structure
will be reasonably fireproof.
(1997 Code, § 7-206) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 97.31 REPAIR REQUIRED.
   In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged to the
extent of less than 50% of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be
the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant to remove or repair the said building
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful for
any person to allow a building to stand in such damaged or decayed condition.
Any such building shall be removed or repaired within 30 days after receiving
notice to do so by the governing body; provided, no combustible building
lawfully within the fire limits at the time the damage occurs shall be repaired
so as to increase the height of such building to a level higher than the
highest point left standing after such damage shall have occurred, nor so as to
occupy greater space than before the damage.
(1997 Code, § 7-207) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.32 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure, or any
non-combustible building which stands within the fire limits is damaged to the
extent of 50% or more of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall not
be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and removed within 60 days from
the date of such fire or other casualty.
(1997 Code, § 7-208) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 97.33 DETERMINATION OF DAMAGE.
   The extent of damage to any building may be determined by three
disinterested persons, residents of the municipality, one of whom shall be
selected by the owner of the building, the second by the Mayor or any two of
the governing body, and the third by the two previously chosen. The decision of
the persons so selected shall be final and conclusive. It shall be the duty of
the owner of any building, before the selection is made, to deposit with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $6, which sum shall be paid to the
selectees upon a determination of the damages.
(1997 Code, § 7-209)
§ 97.34 FIRES REGULATED.
   It shall be lawful to build or set out fires; provided that the person
building such fires shall have the substance under control at all times and
when such fire is within the fire limits the substance to be burned shall be
burned in a fireproof trash burner or incinerator with a metal fireproof screen
of not more than one inch mesh and located at a safe distance from any
building. The incinerator shall be built in such a way as to not permit the
escape of burning paper or other substance. If any person shall require a fire
in the course of his or her business, as a blacksmith or mechanic, such fire
shall be built and maintained in the manner prescribed by the Fire Chief. All
fires in the fire limits shall be built after 7:00 a.m., and completely
extinguished by 12:00 noon, except the aforesaid fires used in the course of a
trade which shall be allowed during such hours as the Fire Chief shall
prescribe. It shall be unlawful for any person to set fires, to burn or cause
to be burned any garbage, animal matter and vegetable matter. The burning of
straw, hay, leaves or brush in the open air is hereby permitted and allowed;
provided, that any such burning shall be done while the said fire is attended
by person setting out the same at all times.
(1997 Code, § 7-210) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.35 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the Municipal Fire Department or his or her designee
may waive an open burning ban under division (A) above for an area under his or
her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting
permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief or his
or her designee to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in
writing, signed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee, and on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Municipal Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open
burning ban in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the
Chief or his or her designee. Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the open
burning ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her
intention to burn.
   (D)   The Municipal Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct
open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   The Municipal Fire Department may charge a fee, not to exceed $10, for
each such permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the governing body for
inclusion in the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. Such funds
shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee
shall be collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a
permit is issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the course
of such state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(1997 Code, § 7-211)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 97.50 STORAGE REGISTRATION.
   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS
28-1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of time
explosive materials as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, or any form of poisonous or
flammable gases or liquefied petroleum gases within the municipality shall
register such information with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer 24 hours prior to
such storage. The transfer of such explosives or gases to another person within
the municipality shall require the person receiving such explosives or gases to
register the transfer and the new location of the explosives and gases with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The transfer of explosive materials and gases to a
new location by the owner shall require registration of the new location with
the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. This section shall not apply to the storage of
five gallons or less of gasoline.
(1997 Code, § 7-301) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, 28-
1233
§ 97.51 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or a corporation to
keep, store, transport or sell or use any flammable liquids or gases in such a
manner or under such circumstances as will jeopardize life and property. No
barrel or container holding more than 100 gallons of gasoline or other
flammable liquids shall be maintained within the corporate limits of the city,
unless such container is buried at least three feet under the ground, outside
of any building, unless such building is used for this purpose only, and at
least ten feet distant from any other building, except that upon application
approval by the City Council, bulk storage tanks may be installed on the
railroad right-of-way.
(1997 Code, § 7-302)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 7-401)
CHAPTER 98: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
98.01   Purpose
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Unlawful acts
   
98.04   Physically disabled person; discrimination practices prohibited; design
and construction standards
   
98.05   Transaction related to residential real estate; discriminatory
practices prohibited
   
98.06   Multiple listing service; other service; discriminatory practices
prohibited
   
98.07   Religious organizations, private home, private club or housing for
older persons; restricting use not prohibited
   
98.08   Information
§ 98.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general welfare of the
residents of the city by endorsing the provisions of the Nebraska Fair Housing
Act, Neb. RS 20-344, to the effect that there shall be no discrimination in the
city in the acquisition, ownership, possession or enjoyment of housing in
accordance with Article I, § 25 of the Constitution of the State of Nebraska.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that he or she will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Nebraska Equal Opportunity Commission.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as or
designed or intended for occupancy as a residence for one or more families and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more minors being domiciled with:
      (1)   A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual;
or
      (2)   The designee of a parent or other person having legal custody, with
written permission of the parent or other person.
   PERSON. Includes one of more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
limited liability companies, associations, labor organizations, legal
representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts,
unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers and
fiduciaries.
   PHYSICAL DISABILITY. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment, excluding the current illegal use
of or addiction to a controlled substance as defined in Neb. RS 28-401, which
substantially limits one or more of such person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment; or
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
   RENT. Includes lease, sublease, let and otherwise grant for consideration
the right to occupy premises not owner by the occupant.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specification limiting the transfer, rental or
lease of any housing because of race, creed, religion, color, national origin,
sex, physical disability, familial status or ancestry.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 98.03 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Except as exempted by Neb. RS 13-1302, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer,
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, refuse to show or refuse to receive and transmit an offer for a dwelling
to any person because of race, color, religion, national origin, familial
status or sex;
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, national
origin, familial status or sex;
      (3)   Make, print, publish or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, physical disability, familial status or
sex or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
      (4)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, physical disability, familial status or sex that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   Cause to be made any written or oral inquiry or record concerning
the race, color, religion, national origin, physical disability, familial
status or sex of a person seeking to purchase, rent or lease any housing;
      (6)   Include in any transfer, sale, rental or lease or housing any
restrictive covenants or honor or exercise or attempt to honor or exercise any
restrictive covenant pertaining to housing;
      (7)   Discharge or demote an employee or agent or discriminate in the
compensation of such employee or agent because of such employee’s compliance
with this chapter or the Nebraska Fair Housing Act, being Neb. RS 20-131.01 to
20-131.04; and
      (8)   Induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, physical disability, familial status or sex.
   (B)   The projections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any minor.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 98.04 PHYSICALLY DISABLED PERSON; DISCRIMINATION PRACTICES PROHIBITED; DESIGN
AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Except as exempted by Neb. RS 13-1302, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Discriminate in the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable
or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a physical disability of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   Any person associated with the buyer or renter; or
         (c)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available.
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with a dwelling because of a physical disability of:
         (a)   Such person;
         (b)   Any person associated with such person; or
         (c)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION shall include:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the physically disabled
person reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied
by the person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that in the case of rental, the landlord may,
when it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification on the
renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition that
existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford the
physically disabled person equal opportunity to use or enjoy a dwelling; and
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after September 1, 1991, a failure to
design and construct the dwellings in such a manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of the dwelling are
readily accessible to and usable by physically disabled persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
physically disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Kitchens and bathrooms such that a physically disabled person
in a wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American National
Standards Institute standard for buildings and facilities providing
accessibility and usability for physically handicapped people, ANSI A117.1,
shall satisfy the requirements of division (B)(3)(c) above.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS shall
mean:
      (1)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if such buildings have
one or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall require that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 11-16-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.05 TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE; DISCRIMINATORY
PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in transactions related to residential real estate to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction because
of race, color, religion, sex, physical disability, familial status or national
origin.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL
ESTATE shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person engaged in the
business of furnishing appraisals of real property from taking into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, national origin,
physical disability, familial status or sex.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 11-16-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.06 MULTIPLE LISTING SERVICE; OTHER SERVICE; DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings or to discriminate against any person in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation on account of race,
color, religion, national origin, physical disability, familial status or sex.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 11-16-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.07 RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS, PRIVATE HOME, PRIVATE CLUB OR HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS; RESTRICTING USE NOT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes to
persons of the same religion or from giving preferences to such persons unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin, physical disability, familial status or sex.
   (B)   Nothing is this chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact open
to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing is this chapter shall prohibit or limit the right of any
person or his or her authorized representative to refuse to rent a room or
rooms in his or her own home for any reason or for no reason or to change
tenants in his or her own home as often as desired, except that this exceptions
shall not apply to any person who makes available for rental or occupancy more
that four sleeping rooms to a person or family within his or her home.
   (D)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS shall mean
housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state program that the Commission determines
is specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons or defined in
the program;
         (b)   Intended for and solely occupied by persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 98.08 INFORMATION.
   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, upon request, shall make available to an
aggrieved person, or any other person, information regarding the Nebraska Fair
Housing Act and the Nebraska Equal Opportunity Commission without cost to such
individual.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 11-16-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-322
CHAPTER 99: SEXUAL PREDATORS
Section
   
99.01   Findings and intent
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Sexual predator residency restrictions; exceptions
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   Certain sex offenders are at a high risk to commit repeat offenses
according to the Nebraska Legislature, and the Legislature has enabled
municipalities to restrict such persons’ place of residency as provided in the
Sexual Predator Residency Restriction Act.
   (B)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
   (C)   The purpose of this ordinance is to serve the city’s interest to
promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
this city by creating certain areas around locations where children regularly
congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators cannot
reside.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of the
high risk of recidivism as determined by the Nebraska State Patrol under Neb.
RS 29-4013, and who has victimized a person eighteen years of age or younger.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 99.03 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
   (B)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum distance
separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of
the school or child care facility.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to the sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
      (2)   Established a residence before September 20, 2016, and has not
moved from that residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after September 20, 2016, and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 9-20-2016)
Statutory Reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4003 and 29-4013
   The Sexual Predator Residency Restriction Act, Laws 2006, LB 1199, ss27 to
29
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates this chapter shall be punished as provided generally
in the code.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 9-20-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
      
112.   JUNK YARDS
      
113.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
114.   TOBACCO
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Location
   
110.04   Dwellings
   
110.05   License displayed
   
110.06   Licensee requirements
   
110.07   Municipal examination
   
110.08   Liquor license renewal
   
110.09   Municipal powers and duties
   
110.10   Owner of premises
   
110.11   Employer
   
110.12   Minors and incompetents
   
110.13   Credit sales
   
110.14   Original package
   
110.15   Minor’s presence
   
110.16   Hours of sale
   
110.17   Sanitary conditions
   
110.18   Hiring minors
   
110.19   Consumption in public places
   
110.20   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
   
110.21   Inspections
   
110.22   Citizen complaints
   
110.23   Catering license
   
110.24   Acquisition and possession
   
110.25   Keg sales; registration; keg identification numbers; prohibited acts
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Occupation taxes, see
Ch. 113
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions applied
thereto, as defined in the Liquor Control Act of the State of Nebraska, being
Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122.
(1997 Code, § 10-101)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-103
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122.
(1997 Code, § 10-102) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 110.03 LOCATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain, manage or
hold open to the public any establishment for the purpose of selling at retail
any alcoholic liquor within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home
for aged or indigent persons or veterans, their wives or children; provided,
this prohibition shall not apply to any location within such distance when the
said establishment has been licensed by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission
at least two years, and to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly
organized clubs or to restaurants where the selling of alcoholic liquors is not
the principal business carried on, if the said hotel, club or restaurant were
licensed and in operation prior to May 24, 1935. No alcoholic liquor, other
than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within 300 feet from
the campus of any college within the municipality.
(1997 Code, § 10-103) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-177
§ 110.04 DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such premises to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes,
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with such premises, and such other portion of the building which
is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal guests.
(1997 Code, § 10-104) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-178
§ 110.05 LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on
the licensed premises.
(1997 Code, § 10-105) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-148
§ 110.06 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license to sell at retail alcoholic beverages shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of Nebraska, except in case of
railroad, airline or boat licensees;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant the Neb. RS Chapter 28, Article 3, 4, 8, 10, 11 or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5) on May
18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on such date from
retaining or renewing such license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for such license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of Nebraska
and unless all the members of such partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of Nebraska and unless all the members of such company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director of the
corporation or any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the
stock of such corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this
section for any reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and
(A)(3) above, except that a manager of a corporate licensee shall be a resident
of Nebraska. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on such premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   (a)   Except as provided in this division (A)(13), an applicant
whose spouse is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor
license. Such applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if such license is granted.
         (b)   It shall be prima facie evidence that when a spouse is
ineligible to receive a liquor license the applicant is also ineligible to
receive a liquor license.
         (c)   Such prima facie evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to
the satisfaction of the Commission:
            1.   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
            2.   Such licensed premises will be properly operated;
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A)(15) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(1997 Code, § 10-106)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-125
§ 110.07 MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic liquors
at retail shall file with the Liquor Control Commission. The Commission shall
then notify by registered or certified mail the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The
governing body shall then meet and determine the desirability of the
application and report in writing or in person to the Commission within 30
days. The governing body may examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any
applicant; examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of any such
applicant; to hear testimony, and to take proof for its information in the
performance of its duties. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information
desired, the governing body may authorize its agent, or the Municipal Attorney,
to act on its behalf. The governing body may hold the said examination and
hearing upon the receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the
application. The governing body shall fix a time and place at which a hearing
will be held, and at which time the governing body may receive competent
evidence under oath, either orally, or by affidavit, from the applicant or any
other person concerning the propriety of the issuance of such license. Notice
shall be published in a legal newspaper in, or of general circulation in, the
municipality one time not less than seven, nor more than 14, days before the
time of the hearing. Such notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the local governing
body in support of or protest against the issuance of such license may do so at
the time of the hearing. Such hearing shall be held not more than 21 days after
the receipt of the Commission’s letter of notice and after such hearing, the
governing body shall cause to be spread at large in the minute record of their
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of said
applicant. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall thereupon mail to the Commission
a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice,
except that failure to hold a hearing and to examine the said applicant shall
not render void any license issued by the Commission. In the event the
Commission refuses to issue a license, the cost of the publication of notice as
herein required shall be paid by the Commission.
(1997 Code, § 10-107)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-134
§ 110.08 LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Retail or bottle club licenses issued by the Commission and outstanding may
be automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the governing body to
require the said licensee to issue an application for renewal. Any licensed
retail or bottle club establishment located in an area which is annexed to the
municipality shall file a formal application for a license, and while such
application is pending, the licensee shall be authorized to continue all
license privileges pursuant to this chapter until the original license expires,
is canceled or revoked. If such license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of such area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, upon
notice from the Commission, between January 10 and January 30 of each year,
shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in, or of general circulation
in the municipality, one time, a notice in the form prescribed by law of the
right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the
municipality; provided, Class C license renewal notices shall be published
between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. Upon the conclusion of
any hearing required by this section, the governing body may request a licensee
to submit an application.
(1997 Code, § 10-108)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-135, 53-135.01
§ 110.09 MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The governing body is authorized to regulate by ordinance not inconsistent
with the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101
through 53-1,122, the business of all retail and bottle club licensees carried
on within the corporate limits. The governing body shall further have the power
and duties in respect to licensed retailers of alcoholic beverages to cancel or
revoke for cause retail or bottle club licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic
liquors issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction subject to the
right of appeal to the Commission; to enter or to authorize any law enforcement
officer to enter at any time upon any premises licensed by the State of
Nebraska to determine whether any of the provisions of the municipal laws, or
the laws of the State of Nebraska, are being violated; to receive signed
complaints from any citizens within its jurisdiction that any of the municipal
laws, or laws of the State of Nebraska, are being violated, and to act upon
such complaints in the manner herein provided; to cancel or revoke on its own
motion any license if, upon the same notice and hearing as provided in §
110.23, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance or
regulation duly enacted relating to alcoholic liquors; and to collect for the
benefit of the State of Nebraska and the municipality all license fees and
occupation taxes as prescribed by law.
(1997 Code, § 10-109)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 110.10 OWNER OF PREMISES.
   The owner of any premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the said
licensed premises in violation of any municipal code section or Nebraska
statute.
(1997 Code, § 10-110) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,101
§ 110.11 EMPLOYER.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act or
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the said act
or omission had been committed by him or her personally.
(1997 Code, § 10-111)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,102
§ 110.12 MINORS AND INCOMPETENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, give away, dispose
of, exchange, permit the sale of or make a gift of, any alcoholic liquors, or
to procure any such alcoholic liquors to or for any minor, or to any person who
is mentally incompetent.
(1997 Code, § 10-112) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-180
§ 110.13 CREDIT SALES.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person or
persons for credit of any kind, barter or services rendered; provided, nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club holding a Class C
license from permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed
by members, or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of the said
members or guests in accordance with the bylaws of any such club; and provided
further, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any hotel or restaurant
holding a retail alcoholic beverage license from permitting checks or
statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing in the said
hotel, and charged to the accounts of such guests.
(1997 Code, § 10-113) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-183
§ 110.14 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor contained in casks, or other
containers except in the original package. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly
private use and not for resale.
(1997 Code, § 10-115) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-184
§ 110.15 MINOR’S PRESENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years to frequent or otherwise remain in the said establishment
unless the said minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian,
and unless said minor remains seated with, and under the immediate control of,
the said parent or legal guardian.
(1997 Code, § 10-116) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 110.16 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer and wine, shall be sold at retail
or dispensed within the city on any day between 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   Alcoholic liquor, including beer and wine, may be sold at retail and
dispensed within the city on any secular day between 6:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m.
   (C)   Alcoholic liquor, including beer and wine, may be sold at retail and
dispensed within the city between the hours of 10:00 a.m. Sunday and 12:00 a.m.
Monday.
(Ord. 2014-12, passed 10-21-2014; Ord. 2015-03, passed 3-3-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 110.17 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premises
shall be subject to any health inspections the governing body or the municipal
police may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses
shall be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a
report concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for, or renewal of, a liquor license.
(1997 Code, § 10-118) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 110.18 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, to
said licensee’s customers.
(1997 Code, § 10-119) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 110.19 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages within
the corporate limits upon the public ways and property, including inside
vehicles while upon the public ways and property. It shall further be unlawful
for any person to consume alcoholic beverages within any other public business
that is not a licensed liquor establishment.
(1997 Code, § 10-120) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186, 53-186.01
§ 110.20 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take such intoxicated person to his or her home or to place such
person in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism center or with a medical doctor as
may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury. Such effort at
placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer contacts those facilities
or doctors which have previously represented a willingness to accept and treat
such individuals and which regularly do accept such individuals. If such
efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may then place such
intoxicated person in civil protective custody, except that civil protective
custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve life or to
prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24 hours. The placement
of such person in civil protective custody shall be recorded at the facility or
jail at which he or she is delivered and communicated to his or her family or
next of kin, if they can be located, or to such person designated by the person
taken into civil protective custody.
   (B)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for such actions. The taking of an
individual into civil protective custody under this section shall not be
considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that
the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any public
right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or other state, county or
municipally owned property.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean and
include private or publicly owned property utilized for proprietary or business
uses which invites patronage by the public or which invites public ingress and
egress.
(1997 Code, § 10-121) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,121
§ 110.21 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the governing body to cause frequent inspections to
be made on the premises of all retail and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act or regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission, or is
failing to observe in good faith the purposes of said Act, the license may be
suspended, canceled or revoked after the licensee has been given an opportunity
to be heard by the governing body.
(1997 Code, § 10-122)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-116.01
§ 110.22 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the municipality shall have the right to file a
complaint with the governing body stating that any retail or bottle club
licensee, subject to the jurisdiction of the governing body, has been or is
violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant thereto. Such complaint shall be in writing on the
form prescribed by the governing body and shall be signed and sworn by the
parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule
or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the governing body is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the fact alleged there is
reasonable cause for such belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint; provided, that the complaint must in all cases be
disposed of by the governing body within 30 days from the date the complaint
was filed by resolution thereof, said resolution shall be deemed the final
order for purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as
provided by law.
(1997 Code, § 10-123) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134.04
§ 110.23 CATERING LICENSE.
   (A)   The holder of a Class C, Class D or Class I license issued under Neb.
RS 53-124, subdivision (5), or a craft brewery license, may obtain an annual
catering license as prescribed in this section. Any such licensee desiring to
obtain a catering license shall file an application with the Liquor Control
Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the governing body shall fix a
time and place at which a hearing will be held and at which the governing body
shall receive evidence, under oath, either orally or in writing, from the
applicant and any other person concerning the propriety of the issuance of such
license. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the receipt of
the notice from the Commission. The governing body may examine or cause to be
examined, under oath, any applicant; examine or cause to be examined the books
and records of any such applicant; hear testimony; and take proof for its
information in the performance of its duties. For purposes of obtaining any of
the information desired, the governing body may authorize its agent, the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer or the Municipal Attorney, to act on its behalf.
   (C)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published in a
legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality one time not
less than seven nor more than 14 days before the time of the hearing. The
notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all persons
desiring to give evidence before the governing body in support of or in protest
against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the hearing.
   (D)   After the hearing, the governing body shall approve or deny the
application within 45 days after receipt of the application from the Commission
and shall cause to be spread at large in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution approving or denying issuance of the license. The Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall thereupon mail or deliver to the Commission a copy of the
resolution within ten days of its adoption.
   (E)   Any resolution rendered by the governing body denying an application
shall be in writing or stated in the record and shall be accompanied by
findings. The findings shall consist of concise statements of the conclusions
upon each contested issue. The applicant shall be notified of the decision in
person or by mail. A copy of the decision and order and accompanying findings
shall be delivered or mailed to the applicant upon request.
   (F)   The governing body with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which the license is issued. Any person whose catering license
is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
(1997 Code, § 10-124)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-124.12, 53-132, 53-134
§ 110.24 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire, accept or
possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other than one duly
licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122; provided, nothing in this section shall
prevent:
   (A)   The possession of alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the
possessor and his or her family and guests, as long as the quantity of
alcoholic liquor transported, imported, brought or shipped into the state does
not exceed nine liters in any one calendar month;
   (B)   The making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person from
fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation
and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker and his or
her family and guests;
   (C)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing or
using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of such hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
   (D)   The possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
or religious ceremony conducted by such church;
   (E)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic liquor
from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a minor;
   (F)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic liquor
containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
   (G)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing of
alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and customers
in the course of their employment; or
   (H)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(1997 Code, § 10-125) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06, 53-175, 53-194.03
§ 110.25 KEG SALES; REGISTRATION; KEG IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells beer
for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity of five
or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the date of
sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and address, and the
number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license, state
identification card or military identification, if such military identification
contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the purchaser’s signature.
Such record shall be on a form prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission and
shall be kept by the licensee at the retail establishment where the purchase
was made for not less than six months. Such records kept pursuant to this
section shall be available for inspection by any law enforcement officer during
normal business hours or at any other reasonable time. Any person violating
this section shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Licensees shall place a label bearing a keg identification number on
each keg at the time of retail sale. Any person who unlawfully tampers with,
alters or removes the keg identification number from a beer container after
such container has been taken from the licensed premises pursuant to a retail
sale and before its return to such licensed premises or other place where
returned kegs are accepted shall be guilty of an offense.
(1997 Code, § 10-126) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-167.02, 53-167.03
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; penalty. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply
with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at
full length herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(1997 Code, § 10-701)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 90, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1997 Code, § 10-702)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
Section
   
111.01   Regulation
   
111.02   Hours of solicitation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 REGULATION.
   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous and unhealthful goods and
services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all peddlers and
hawkers shall, before doing business within the municipality, register with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The registration forms, supplied by the Clerk-
Treasurer shall contain all the necessary information required for the
protection of the residents of the municipality. All peddlers and hawkers shall
be subject to any fees, occupation taxes and other rules and regulations which
the governing body deems appropriate for the purposes stated herein.
(1997 Code, § 10-201) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134, 17-525
§ 111.02 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesperson or peddler to
solicit any individual between the hours of 6:00 p.m., and 8:00 a.m., unless he
or she has a previous appointment with the resident, or residents, of the
premises solicited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful at any hour for a solicitor, salesperson or
peddler to solicit without a proper permit on his or her person at all times.
(1997 Code, § 10-202) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; penalty. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply
with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at
full length herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(1997 Code, § 10-701)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 90, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1997 Code, § 10-702)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 112: JUNK YARDS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Regulation
   
112.03   Owner’s responsibility
   
112.04   Inspections
   
112.05   Nuisance
   
112.06   Rodents
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Includes scrap metals, scrap materials, whether they are liquids,
solids or gases, branches of trees and dismantled or wrecked automobiles,
tractors and machinery or parts thereof.
   JUNK COLLECTOR. Any person going from place to place, or house to house,
collecting or buying iron, copper, brass and zinc scraps, rags, bottles or old
paper, and selling the same to a junk dealer.
   JUNK DEALER. Includes any person engaged in the business of buying, selling,
receiving, collecting or dealing in metal scraps, scrap iron, metals of any
kind and in any form, bottles, rags and used tires; the dismantling or taking
apart of automobiles, other than for repair, or the wrecking of automobiles;
the storage of automobiles unfit for operation; the storage of automobile
bodies and parts thereof; the storage of automobiles or parts thereof kept for
salvage; the storage of scraps from automobiles; or the storage of iron, metals
or junk.
   JUNK YARD. Includes any place in the municipality where or from which any
person shall conduct, engage in or carry on the business of junk dealer as
herein defined.
(1997 Code, § 10-301)
§ 112.02 REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate or hold open for public
use any junk yard as herein defined without first obtaining a license to do so
from the municipality. Application for a license to own, operate or hold open
for public use any junk yard shall be made in writing to the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer and shall require such information and documents, or copies thereof,
that the governing body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject
the said application. Upon approval of the application, the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue the license upon the payment of a fee set by resolution
of the governing body. The licensee shall then be subject to any occupation
taxes, bond requirements and other rules and regulations which the governing
body may determine to be beneficial to the municipality. Any such bond shall be
set by resolution of the governing body and will be conditioned upon the
faithful observance of the provisions of this code. The bond shall be held for
the benefit of any person who may suffer damage by the improper management of
the said junk yard.
(1997 Code, § 10-302) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 69-202
§ 112.03 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises upon which a junk yard is located shall be equally
responsible with the operator, director or employee thereof to see that the
provisions of this code will not be violated. In the event the provisions of
this code are violated, he or she shall be equally liable with the operator,
director or employee for the said violation of the provisions herein.
(1997 Code, § 10-303)
§ 112.04 INSPECTIONS.
   The municipal police, health officials and the governing body shall have the
power and authority to inspect and examine the premises on which a junk yard is
located; provided, that the said inspection is at a reasonable time. Upon a
finding that the owner, operator, director or employee has allowed a health or
safety hazard to develop, the governing body shall give written notice to the
owner to remove the said health hazard within 30 days.
(1997 Code, § 10-304)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 69-204
§ 112.05 NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any junk yard that becomes a danger to the public health, or is not
operated in the manner herein provided, shall be deemed to be a public nuisance
after the said 30-day period of grace.
   (B)   The governing body shall then request the Municipal Attorney to
prosecute the owner, operator, director or employee of the said nuisance for
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 10-305) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 112.06 RODENTS.
   Any person who owns, operates, directs or is employed by a junk yard shall
make a diligent and continuous effort to exterminate all rats, mice and other
harmful rodents frequenting the said junk yard.
(1997 Code, § 10-306) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; penalty. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply
with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at
full length herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(1997 Code, § 10-701)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 90, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1997 Code, § 10-702)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 113: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
113.01   Amounts
   
113.02   Collection date
   
113.03   Certificates
   
113.04   Failure to pay
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses:
 
Occupation                                                     Occupation Tax
Dog kennel (not to be pro-rated), per year                     $250
Retailer of alcoholic liquors, including beer or wine for off- $225
sale only (sales in original package only), per year
Retailer of alcoholic liquors, including beer or wine for on-  $250
sale and off-sale (sales in original package only), per year
Retailer of off-sale beer and wine only (sales in original     $225
package only), per year
 
(1997 Code, § 10-501)
§ 113.02 COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due, and payable on January 1 of each year,
except in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon the payment
thereof by any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, the said
Clerk-Treasurer shall give a receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person
paying the said tax, and the amount paid; provided, occupation taxes collected
from Class C liquor licensees shall be due and payable on November 1. The
revenue collected shall then be immediately deposited into the General Fund by
the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall keep an
accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and
receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be
kept by each party in the transaction.
(1997 Code, § 10-502)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 113.03 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person and business that paid the said tax. The
occupation tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place, or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible, while business is being
conducted.
(1997 Code, § 10-503)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 113.04 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day they become due, and payable,
the municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due.
All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
(1997 Code, § 10-504)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; penalty. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply
with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at
full length herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(1997 Code, § 10-701)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 90, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1997 Code, § 10-702)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 114: TOBACCO
Section
   
114.01   License for sale; application; contents fee
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 LICENSE FOR SALE; APPLICATION; CONTENTS FEE.
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation desiring
a license to sell tobacco at retail shall file with the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer a written application, on forms provided by the municipality, stating
the name of the person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation
for whom the license is desired and the exact location of the place of business
and shall deposit with the application a license fee in the amount of $10. If
the applicant is an individual, the application shall include the applicant’s
social security number.
(1997 Code, § 10-601) (Ord. 1998-22, passed 11-3-1998) Penalty, see § 115.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1422, 28-1423
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; penalty. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply
with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at
full length herein or incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(1997 Code, § 10-701)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 90, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1997 Code, § 10-702)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Disturbing the peace
   
130.04   Unlawful possession of dangerous weapons
   
130.05   Maintaining a nuisance
   
130.06   Appliances in yard
   
130.07   Disorderly conduct
   
130.08   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Misdemeanors
   
130.20   Violence on a service dog; interference with a service dog
   
130.21   False reporting
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly; or
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$200 or more but less than $1,500; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $200 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(1997 Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowing that he or she is not licensed
or privileged to do so, to:
   (A)   Enter or secretly remain in any building or occupied structure, or any
separately secured or occupied portion thereof; or
   (B)   Enter or remain in any place as to which notice against trespass is
given by:
      (1)   Actual communication to the actor;
      (2)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to come
to the attention of intruders; or
      (3)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders.
(1997 Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-520, 28-521
§ 130.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(1997 Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1322
§ 130.04 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   Any person under the age of 19 years to possess a pistol, revolver, dagger,
dirk, knife or stiletto with a blade over three and one-half inches in length,
knuckles, brass knuckles, iron knuckles or any other instrument consisting of
finger rings or guards made of a hard substance and designed, made or adapted
for the purpose of inflicting serious bodily injury or death by striking a
person with the fist enclosed in the knuckles, or nunchakus, Chinese throwing
stars, butterfly knives, climbing claws or other martial arts weapons, commits
the offense of unlawful possession of a dangerous weapon.
(1997 Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up or continue and
maintain any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the
municipality.
(1997 Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321
§ 130.06 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless he or she shall first
remove all doors and make the same reasonably safe.
(1997 Code, § 6-306) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321
§ 130.07 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturb the peace and good order of the municipality by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting, using of obscene or profane language in
the streets or other public places, or is otherwise indecent or disorderly
conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
(1997 Code, § 6-309) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-129, 17-556
§ 130.08 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, other
than city property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise,
shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked, or discarded
vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the city.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
(1997 Code, § 6-311) Penalty, see §
130.99
MISDEMEANORS
§ 130.20 VIOLENCE ON A SERVICE DOG; INTERFERENCE WITH A SERVICE DOG.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of violence on a service dog when he or
she:
      (1)   Intentionally injures, harasses or threatens to injure or harass;
or
      (2)   Attempts to intentionally injure, harass or threaten a dog that he
or she knows or has reason to believe is a dog guide for a blind or visually
impaired person, a hearing aid dog for a deaf or hearing-impaired person or a
service dog for a physically limited person.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of interference with a service dog when
he or she:
      (1)   Intentionally impedes, interferes or threatens to impede or
interfere; or
      (2)   Attempts to intentionally impede, interfere or threaten to impede
or interfere with a dog that he or she knows or has reason to believe is a dog
guide for a blind or visually impaired person, a hearing aid dog for a deaf or
hearing-impaired person or a service dog for a physically limited person.
   (C)   Evidence that the defendant initiated or continued conduct toward a
dog as described in divisions (A) or (B) above after being requested to avoid
or discontinue such conduct by the blind, visually impaired, deaf, hearing-
impaired or physically limited person being served or assisted by the dog shall
create a rebuttable presumption that the conduct of the defendant was initiated
or continued intentionally.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLIND PERSON. A person with totally impaired vision or with vision, with
or without correction, which is so severely impaired that the primary means of
receiving information is through other sensory input, including, but not
limited to, braille, mechanical reproduction, synthesized speech or readers.
      DEAF PERSON. A person with totally impaired hearing or with hearing, with
or without amplification, which is so severely impaired that the primary means
of receiving spoken language is through other sensory input, including, but not
limited to, lip reading, sign language, finger spelling or reading.
      HEARING-IMPAIRED PERSON. A person who is unable to hear air conduction
thresholds at an average of 40 decibels or greater in the person’s better ear.
      PHYSICALLY LIMITED PERSON. A person having limited ambulatory abilities,
including, but not limited to, having a permanent impairment or condition that
requires the person to use a wheelchair or to walk with difficulty or
insecurity to the extent that the person is insecure or exposed to danger.
      VISUALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. A person having a visual acuity of 20/200 or
less in the person’s better eye with correction or having a limitation to the
person’s field of vision so that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angular distance not greater than 20 degrees.
(1997 Code, § 6-312) (Ord. 1998-20, passed 11-3-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1009.01
§ 130.21 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished
or conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic or mechanical means, knowing
the same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a Fire Department or
any personnel or equipment of such Department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; and/
or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding such investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(1997 Code, § 6-313) (Ord. 1998-21, passed 11-3-1998) Penalty, §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; penalty. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply
with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full
length herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense
and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(1997 Code, § 6-401)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 90, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1997 Code, § 6-402)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MUNICIPAL PLANNING
      
152.   VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits
   
150.001   Building permits generally
   
150.002   Limitation
   
150.003   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.004   Satellite dish installation; regulations
Building Moving
   
150.015   Definitions
   
150.016   Permit required
   
150.017   Application
   
150.018   Interference
   
150.019   Duties of permittee
   
150.020   No general license
Barricades and Lights
   
150.035   Barricades and lights
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.050   Definition
   
150.051   Prohibition
   
150.052   Determination and notice
   
150.053   Hearing and appeal
   
150.054   Emergency
   
150.055   Special assessments
Uniform Codes
   
150.070   Electrical Code; adopted by reference
   
150.071   International Property Maintenance Code
Rental Housing Standards Code
   
150.085   Established
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.001 BUILDING PERMITS GENERALLY.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to
be done shall file with the Municipal Clerk an application for a building
permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the
Municipal Clerk for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the
legal description of the land upon which the construction or relocation is to
take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the
estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect, and contractor, and such
other information as may be requested thereon. The application, plans, and
specifications so filed with the Municipal Clerk shall be checked and examined
by the governing body and if they are found to be in conformity with the
requirements of this chapter and all other ordinances applicable thereto, the
governing body shall authorize the Municipal Clerk to issue the said applicant
a permit upon the payment of the permit fee set by resolution of the governing
body. Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application procedures
contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by reference,
the provisions contained herein shall govern.
(1997 Code, § 9-101) (Ord. 2014-06, passed 7-1-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-130 through 17-132, 17-550,
17-1001
§ 150.002 LIMITATION.
   (A)   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun
within six months of the date thereof, or if the construction shall be
discontinued for a period of six months, the permit shall be void.
   (B)   Before work can be resumed, a new permit shall be obtained in the same
manner and form as an original permit.
(1997 Code, § 9-102) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.003 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair,
of any building within the municipality’s jurisdiction, a duplicate of such
permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(1997 Code, § 9-104) (Ord. 2014-06, passed 7-1-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1743
§ 150.004 SATELLITE DISH INSTALLATION; REGULATIONS.
   Satellite television earth stations (satellite dishes) may be installed
within the corporate limits of the city, providing they meet with the following
minimum requirements:
   (A)   All satellite dishes shall not exceed 11 feet in diameter and they
shall be placed in the rear yard of the property only and must meet all side
and rear setback requirements for that residential zone as adopted and
incorporated in the comprehensive zoning and subdivision regulations for the
city on December 19, 1972, by Ordinance 238. The installation of such facility
shall not be allowed in the front yard or the side yard adjacent to the main
residential structure located on such lots;
   (B)   All units installed in business or highway service areas must be
installed to the rear of the building only and must have a minimum setback of
ten feet from the lot line;
   (C)   All units must be installed so that there is a minimum clearance from
all electrical lines of eight feet; and
   (D)   The installation of such units require that an application for a
building permit be filed and that a building permit be issued by the city prior
to such installation.
(1997 Code, § 9-105)
BUILDING MOVING
§ 150.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A structure designated, built or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals, storage, commercial, industrial, institutional,
assembly, educational or recreational purposes. A structure with less than the
following dimensions shall not fall within this definition: 12 feet wide, 24
feet long, 15 feet high.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
(1997 Code, § 9-201)
§ 150.016 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall move any building as herein defined over, along or across
any highway, street or alley, in the city, without first obtaining a permit
from the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 9-202) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.017 APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an
application for such permit with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The application
shall be in writing upon forms provided by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, and
shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The application shall set forth:
         (a)   A description of the building proposed to be moved, giving
street number, construction materials, dimensions, number of rooms and
condition of exterior and interior;
         (b)   A legal description of the lot from which the building is to be
moved, giving the lot, block and tract number, if located in the city;
         (c)   A legal description of the lot to which such proposed building
is being moved, giving lot, block and tract number, if located in the city;
         (d)   The portion of the lot to be occupied by the building when
moved;
         (e)   The highways, streets and alleys over, along or across, which
the building is proposed to be moved;
         (f)   Proposed moving date and hours; and
         (g)   Any additional information which the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
shall find necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit should be
issued.
   (B) The application shall be accompanied by the following documents.
      (1)   Certificate. The owner of the building to be moved shall file with
the application sufficient evidence from the County Treasurer that all taxes
have been paid thereon, and that there is no unpaid bonded indebtedness
existing against the property. The bonded indebtedness shall be determined as
an amount that bears the same proportion to the total outstanding bonded
indebtedness of the municipality, if the municipality has such bonded
indebtedness, as the assessed valuation for the preceding calendar year of the
building sought to be removed bears to the total assessed valuation of all
taxable property in the municipality for the preceding calendar year, or if the
school district has any outstanding bonded indebtedness, an amount which is a
similar proportion of the assessed valuation of such building sought to be
removed bears to the total outstanding bonded indebtedness of such school
district, or both such amounts as the case may be.
      (2)   Certificate of ownership. The applicant, if other than the owner,
shall file with the application a written statement or bill of sale signed by
the owner, or other sufficient evidence that he or she is entitled to move the
building.
      (3)   Liability policy. The applicant shall file with the application a
certificate of insurance providing coverage for both personal injury or
property damage which might occur during the moving of said building. The
minimum amount of coverage allowable shall be $250,000 property damage
coverage, and $250,000 personal injury coverage. The City Council may require
coverage in greater amounts if it deems it to be necessary.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by permit fee in the amount of
10% of the appraised value of the structure being moved if the structure is
being moved outside the city limits, which may be refunded by the city if
another structure of equal or greater value is placed or erected on the
property. Fees so collected shall be credited to the General Fund.
(1997 Code, § 9-203) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 6-6-2006)
§ 150.018 INTERFERENCE.
   Whenever it shall be necessary for any permittee to move a building to
interfere with any electric, telephone or telegraph poles or wires, the public
service company or companies owning, using or operating such poles or wire,
shall, upon such notice as is provided in their respective franchises, or if no
provisions for notice is made therein, then upon 48-hours’ notice, be present
and assist, or, if necessary, remove such poles and wires; and the expense of
such removal, as estimated, shall be paid in advance by applicant, unless it is
otherwise provided in said company’s franchise. Whenever the moving of any
building necessitates interference with any water main or sewer main belonging
to the municipality, notice in writing of the time and route of such building
moving operation shall be given to the Supervisor of the municipality, who
shall proceed on behalf of the municipality as the managing officer or public
service companies are required to proceed in the premises in behalf of the
companies. The notice herein provided for shall be given to said municipal
official or public service company or companies as case may be, by the licensed
housemover.
(1997 Code, § 9-204)
§ 150.019 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   Every permittee under this subchapter shall:
   (A)   Use designated streets. Move a building only over streets designated
for such use in the written permit;
   (B)   Notify of revised moving time. Notify the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
and Utilities Superintendent involved in writing of a desired change in moving
date and hour as proposed in the application;
   (C)   Notify of damage. Notify the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer in writing of
any and all damage done to property belonging to the municipality within 24
hours after the damage or injury has occurred;
   (D)   Display lights. Cause red lights to be displayed during the night time
on every side of the building while standing on the street, in such a manner as
to warn the public of the obstruction, and shall at all times erect and
maintain barricades across the streets in such a manner as to protect the
public from damage or injury by reason of the removal of the building;
   (E)   Street occupancy period. Remove the building from the municipal
streets after four days of such occupancy, unless an extension is granted by
the Mayor and the City Council;
   (F)   Comply with governing law. Comply with the Building Code, the fire
zone and any zoning ordinances now existing or hereinafter adopted, and all
other applicable ordinances and laws, if any, upon relocating the building in
the municipality;
   (G)   Clear old premises. Within ten days from the removal of the building,
the permittee shall remove all rubbish and materials, and fill all excavations
to existing grade at the original site, so that the premises are left in a safe
and sanitary condition; and
   (H)   Remove service connections. See that the sewer line is plugged with a
concrete stopper, the water and electricity shut off, and the meters returned
to the Municipal Water Department. The permittee shall notify the gas company
to remove his or her service.
(1997 Code, § 9-205) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.020 NO GENERAL LICENSE.
   There shall be no license issued or general permit given to anyone to move
buildings at will or generally within the municipality.
(1997 Code, § 9-206)
BARRICADES AND LIGHTS
§ 150.035 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or lessee causing the
construction or demolition of any building or improvement upon or near any
public street, alley, or sidewalk to have during such construction all
excavations, building materials and debris protected by suitable guards, or
barricades by day and by warning lights at night. The failure, neglect or
refusal of said persons to erect such guards shall constitute a violation of
this section and the City Manager shall stop all work until guards are erected
and maintained as required, and if the barricades and lights are not erected
within 24 hours, the governing body may revoke any building permit issued for
such work.
(1997 Code, § 9-103) (Ord. 2014-06, passed 7-1-2014) Penalty, see §
150.999
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.050 DEFINITION.
   (A)   The term UNSAFE BUILDING as used in this subchapter is hereby defined
to mean and include any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure:
      (1)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition,
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
      (2)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or
any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire
hazard; or
      (3)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is liable
to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of such
structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the municipality is hereby declared to be
a nuisance.
(1997 Code, § 9-301) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.051 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition.
(1997 Code, § 9-302) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.052 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Board of Health shall be of the opinion that any building
or structure in the municipality is an unsafe building, the Board shall file a
written statement to this effect with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall thereupon cause the property to be posted
accordingly, and shall file a copy of such determination in the office of the
County Register of Deeds, and shall serve written notice upon the owner
thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by certified mail or by
personal service. Such notice shall state that the building has been declared
to be in an unsafe condition; and that such dangerous condition must be removed
or remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it; and
that the condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt.
   (B)   Such notice may be in the following terms:
 
To _________________________ (owner-occupant of premises) of the premises known
and described as _____________.
You are hereby notified that _________________________ (describe building) on
the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a
nuisance after inspection by ____________________________________ . The causes
for this decision are ________________ (here insert the facts as to the
dangerous condition).
You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the
date of receipt of this notice or the municipality will proceed to do so.
Appeal of this determination may be made to the governing body, acting as the
Board of Appeals, by filing with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer within ten days
from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.
 
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith within
60 days from the date of receipt of such notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination of the Board of Health finding that a dangerous building exists
within ten days from the time when this notice is served upon such person by
personal service or certified mail, the governing body may proceed to remedy
the condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(1997 Code, § 9-303)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.053 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of
the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer request a hearing before the governing body, sitting as the
Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The governing body shall grant such hearing within ten days from
the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the governing body’s
decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified
mail. If the governing body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60 days
from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If
after the 60-day period the owner has not begun work, the governing body shall
proceed to cause such work to be done; provided, the property owner may appeal
such decision to the appropriate court for adjudication during which
proceedings the decision of the governing body shall be stayed. Where the
municipality has not adopted a building code, the statutes of Nebraska relating
to bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes shall apply.
(1997 Code, § 9-304)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.054 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Board of
Health to do so, the municipality may summarily repair or demolish and remove
such building or structure.
(1997 Code, § 9-305)
§ 150.055 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and
a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in the
notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be
transmitted to the governing body.
   (B)   The governing body may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and shall
be collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
(1997 Code, § 9-306)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
UNIFORM CODES
§ 150.070 ELECTRICAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2005 National Electrical Code for electrical wiring is adopted as the
official code for all electrical wiring to be completed within the city and to
include all electric services from the city; that any and all amendments to
said 2005 National Electrical Code are automatically adopted and made a part of
the Electric Code hereby adopted for said city. One copy of the Electrical Code
is on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and is available for
public inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the Electrical Code
shall be controlling throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning
jurisdiction.
(1997 Code, § 9-401) (Ord. 2002-01, passed 1-8-2002; Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-22-
2005)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902, 19-922
§ 150.071 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   In order to establish standards for the maintenance of property within
the city limits of the city, to provide for health, safety and sanitation, the
International Property Maintenance Code is hereby incorporated by reference in
addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein insofar as
said code does not conflict with the statutes of the State of Nebraska.
   (B)   (1)   In order to provide for administration of the International
Property Maintenance Code, and to deal with problem resolution due to
deficiencies under the Code, the Mayor and Council of the city hereby establish
the problem resolution team.
      (2)   The problem resolution team shall consist of five citizens of the
city, and shall not include members of city government or city employees. The
team shall meet on a schedule as determined by the members to review problem
properties, and to work with the owners to reach a resolution.
   (C)   (1)   In order to ensure compliance with the International Property
Maintenance Code, the Mayor and City Council hereby establish administrative
fees for noncompliance with the Code.
      (2)   An administrative fee of $300 shall be charged for noncompliance
within 60 days after notification by the problem resolution team. An additional
fee of $25 shall be charged for each additional week of noncompliance after the
60 days. Fees shall be charged by the City Clerk-Treasurer in the same manner
as utilities, and shall be billed to the property owner by the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 5-20-2008; Ord. 2008-05, passed 5-20-2008; Ord. 2008-09,
passed 11-4-2008)
RENTAL HOUSING STANDARDS CODE
§ 150.085 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for
safe and stable design, construction, uses of materials and maintenance of
rental residential dwellings, the City Council shall have the authority to
establish regulations by resolution, and any such resolution or resolutions
shall constitute the Rental Housing Standards Code for the municipality. Three
copies of the Rental Housing Standards Code are on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and are available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The provisions of the Rental Housing Standards Code shall be
controlling throughout the municipality.
   (B)   To ensure compliance with the Rental Housing Standards Code, every
residential dwelling unit within the municipality which is not occupied by a
person who is a record title owner of said unit, shall be inspected by the
municipality and brought into compliance with this Code by the owner or owners
of said dwelling at the time of any change of occupancy of said unit.
   (C)   An inspection shall not be required if, within the two-year period
immediately preceding the change of occupancy, a change of occupancy occurred
in the unit which, resulted in an inspection and certification of compliance
with the Rental Housing Standards Code. All costs of compliance with the Rental
Housing Standards Code shall be paid by the owner of the unit. The owner of the
dwelling shall pay a fee of $25 for the inspection required under this section.
   (D)   The owner of a residential dwelling unit shall have a period of 90
days from the date of initial inspection to bring the unit into compliance with
the Code. An additional 60-day period shall be allowed, upon payment of a fee
of $25 for said extension to the city, provided that the extension fee must be
paid prior to the expiration of the initial 90-day period. Any further
extension request will be charged an additional $25 fee and must be approved by
the City Council prior to the expiration of the original period allowed for
compliance. The City Council shall have the authority to grant or deny requests
for additional extensions of time.
   (E)   An owner of a residential dwelling unit who has failed to report a
change of occupancy which requires an inspection; failed to allow the
municipality to inspect a residential dwelling covered by this section; failed
to pay fees required under this section; failed to bring a dwelling into
compliance with the Code within the time allowed to said owner; or an owner in
violation of any other aspect of this ordinance, shall be guilty of a Class IV
misdemeanor, and a new violation shall be deemed to have been committed for
each 24 hours of continued noncompliance.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the above, the City Superintendent shall have the
authority to order an inspection of any residential dwelling covered by this
section for the purpose of determining whether or not said dwelling is in
compliance with the Code. No fee shall be required for the inspection ordered
by the Housing Inspector under this provision. If it is determined, after any
such inspection, that a dwelling is not in compliance, a $25 inspection fee
will be collected and all owners of said dwelling shall be in violation of this
section until said dwelling is brought into compliance with this section, and a
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed for each 24 hours of
continued noncompliance.
   (G)   Any violation of this section or any part thereof, which continues for
more than seven consecutive days is hereby declared to be a threat to public
safety and a nuisance. The city may proceed in any manner authorized by city
ordinance or state statute enjoin, prevent, abate and remove the same in the
manner provided by law.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 3-6-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-1001, 18-132, 18-
1720, 19-902
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; penalty. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply
with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at
full length herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(1997 Code, § 9-501)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 90, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(1997 Code, § 9-502)
Statutory reference:
   Authority or similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 151: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
Section
   
151.01   Original plats, additions, subdivisions approved, except streets
vacated as herein set forth
   
151.02   Laying out additions or subdivisions
   
151.03   Laying out streets
   
151.04   Description of present city limits
   
151.05   Signs
   
151.06   Comprehensive zoning and subdivision regulations; incorporated by
reference; jurisdiction
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 ORIGINAL PLATS, ADDITIONS, SUBDIVISIONS APPROVED, EXCEPT STREETS
VACATED AS HEREIN SET FORTH.
   Each and all plots, lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions and parcels of
ground included within the corporate limits of the municipality of Arapahoe,
Nebraska, and not vacated of record prior to the enactment of this chapter,
including the original plat of the municipality, are hereby accepted, approved
and confirmed as valid and each and all of said lots, blocks, additions,
subdivisions and parcels of ground as heretofore platted and recorded in the
office of County Clerk of Furnas County, Nebraska, and not heretofore vacated
and all other parcels of ground included within said corporate limits are
hereby declared to be within the municipality and an integral part thereof,
except that the following streets and alleys have heretofore been vacated:
      Alley between Blocks 2, 21 and 34; Fifth Street, between Davis and Dalton
Streets; Sixth Street between Blocks 19 and 20; and the alleys in Blocks 19 and
20; alley in Block 12; alley in Block 75; the south four feet of Pine Street;
adjacent to Block 75; Oak Street between Tenth and Eleventh Street; Twelfth
Street, between Vine Street and Chestnut; the alley in Block 14; the west two
feet of Alley in Block 16 Colvin’s Addition; north three hundred four feet of
Catholic Addition; alley through Blocks 72 and 73; Eleventh Street from the
alley in Block 72 south to the south side of Block 72; alley in Blocks 2, 3 and
26 and Second Street from Vine Street to Chestnut Street; west ten feet of
alley in Block 2 Colvin’s Addition; First Street from Chestnut Street to Vine
Street and the alley in Blocks 59 and 60; Dudley Street from east side on
Nebraska Avenue east to municipal limits; west two feet of the alley in Block
16, Colvin’s Addition to the municipality of Arapahoe; alleys in Block 2, Block
3, Block 12, Block 14, Block 26, Block 59, Block 60, Block 72, Block 73 –
Original Town of Arapahoe; alleys in Block 2, 17, 18 and 20 – South Addition to
the municipality of Arapahoe; First Street between Vine and Chestnut; Second
Street between Vine and Chestnut; Twelfth Street between Vine and Chestnut;
Third Street between Main Street and Pine Street; the south four feet of Pine
Street adjacent to Block 75; the south half of Eleventh Street lying between
Blocks 72 and 73, Original Town; that part of Oak Street lying south of Block
73, Original Town; Seventh Street lying between Davis Street and Dudley Street,
South Addition; Sixth Street lying between Davis Street and Dudley Street,
South Addition; Fifth Street lying between Davis Street and Dalton Street,
South Addition; and Dudley Street lying between Nebraska Avenue and the east
municipal limits.
(1997 Code, § 11-101)
§ 151.02 LAYING OUT ADDITIONS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
   The owner of any tract of land within the corporate limits of the
municipality or contiguous thereto may lay out said land into lots, blocks,
streets, avenues and alleys as an addition to the municipality upon conformance
to and in compliance with the Nebraska Statutes as existing now or hereafter
amended.
(1997 Code, § 11-102)
§ 151.03 LAYING OUT STREETS.
   The streets, avenues and alleys of all tracts or parcels of land hereafter
subdivided or laid out as an addition or which may heretofore have been
subdivided or laid out as an addition but not submitted to or approved by the
Mayor and City Council, shall, unless for good and sufficient reason the Mayor
and City Council shall direct otherwise, correspond in width and direction and
be continuations of the streets, avenues, alleys of the municipality or of any
addition contiguous to or near proposed addition.
(1997 Code, § 11-103)
§ 151.04 DESCRIPTION OF PRESENT CITY LIMITS.
   All the additions, lots, lands, subdivisions and parcels of ground included
within the hereinafter described limits having been by act or ordinances of the
Mayor and City Council duly annexed to or made a part of the municipality, or
having been by the act, authority, acquiescence, consent, platting and
dedication of their respective owners, created either as original townsites or
as additions to the Municipality of Arapahoe, Furnas County, Nebraska, and are
hereby declared to be within the corporate limits of the Municipality of
Arapahoe, Nebraska, and are hereby declared to be as set forth in the
description on file at the City Clerk’s office.
(1997 Code, § 11-104)
§ 151.05 SIGNS.
   (A)   The city has the authority to regulate municipal planning and zoning
within the corporate limits of the city, or within one mile contiguous thereto,
as provided in the municipal code and the statutes of the State of Nebraska.
   (B)   The city is desirous of placing signs within its territorial
jurisdiction which will be erected pursuant to and in accordance with direction
or authorization contained in federal, state and local law for the purpose of
carrying out its official duties or responsibilities.
   (C)   The city will own said signs and shall be responsible for the erection
and maintenance of said signs.
   (D)   The signs will be erected for the betterment of the community and to
enhance the operation of government with the city and said signs will further
provide for community pride and support, which in turn will enhance the city’s
services, health, welfare, parks, culture, recreation and safety. The signs
shall be erected for the purpose of carrying out these duties and
responsibilities.
   (E)   The locations of said signs shall not endanger the health, safety or
welfare of the traveling public or shall they obstruct the view of oncoming
traffic or any traffic control devices.
   (F)   Said signs shall conform to the lighting criteria of federal and state
law and the applicable regulations thereto.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 5-8-2001)
§ 151.06 COMPREHENSIVE ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference for the city
comprehensive zoning and subdivision regulations to be known as “Zoning and
Subdivision Regulations for the City of Arapahoe, Nebraska,” prepared and
published in book form by White, Hamele and Hunsley, engineers and planners of
Salina, Kansas. Not less than three copies of said zoning and subdivision
regulations in book form with zoning district maps, marked or stamped “Official
Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No. 238,” and to which shall be attached a
published copy of this Ordinance, shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours.
   (B)   The area of jurisdiction shall be all land within the corporate limits
of the city, and all land within one mile of the corporate limits of the city.
(1997 Code, § 11-105) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1997 Code, § 11-201)
CHAPTER 152: VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
Section
   
152.01   Findings
   
152.02   Purposes
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Applications
   
152.05   Requirements
   
152.06   Additional requirements; Program Administrator powers
   
152.07   Enforcement
   
152.08   Applicability
§ 152.01 FINDINGS.
   The City of Arapahoe finds and declares that:
   (A)   Vacant properties have the potential to create a host of problems for
the city, including a propensity to foster criminal activity, create public
health problems, and otherwise diminish quality of life;
   (B)   Vacant properties have the potential to reduce the value of area
properties, increase the risk of property damage through arson and vandalism,
and discourage neighborhood stability;
   (C)   Vacant properties represent unrealized economic growth in the city;
   (D)   A vacant property registration chapter will allow the city to
discourage property vacancy, maintain unoccupied buildings, provide a data base
of vacant properties and their owners, and assess fees for the increased public
costs associated with vacant properties;
   (E)   Fees imposed under a vacant property registration chapter have the
potential to benefit the owners of vacant properties by helping to finance
additional government services to protect the value and security of such
properties; and
   (F)   Enactment of this vacant property registration chapter is a proper
exercise of the city’s authority to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of community residents and a valid regulatory scheme.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 152.02 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are to promote the health, safety, and welfare
of the City of Arapahoe residents by providing authority for enacting vacant
property registration requirements. This chapter will allow the City of
Arapahoe to identify and register vacant properties, collect fees to compensate
for the public costs of vacant properties, plan for the rehabilitation of
vacant properties, and encourage the occupancy of vacant properties.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. Any building or structure located on a property that is
not a residential building.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition or circumstance that on its own or in
combination with other conditions or circumstances would lead a reasonable
person to believe that a residential building or commercial building is vacant.
Such conditions or circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Any unoccupied or empty building or structure on the property;
      (2)   Lack of active utility service accounts;
      (3)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery, and other
plantings;
      (4)   Visible deterioration or lack of maintenance of any building or
structure on the property;
      (5)   Graffiti or other defacement of any building or structure on the
property; or
      (6)   Any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that the
property is not occupied for residential purposes or being used for the
operation of a lawful business.
   OWNER. The person or persons shown to be the owner or owners of record in
the records of the County Register of Deeds.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A house, a condominium, a townhouse, an apartment unit
or building, or a trailer house.
   VACANT. A residential building or commercial building exhibits evidence of
vacancy.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 152.04 APPLICATIONS.
   The city hereby adopts this chapter which applies to any type of either
residential or commercial buildings, located within the corporate limits of the
city, except that this chapter shall not apply to property owned by the federal
government, the State of Nebraska, or any political subdivision thereof. This
chapter shall create a city-wide vacant property registration data base which
shall be administered by a Program Administrator appointed by the City Council.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 152.05 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Owners of vacant property subject to this chapter shall be required to
register such property with the Program Administrator on forms provided by the
Program Administrator if the property has been vacant for 180 days or longer.
If the Program Administrator is aware of a property that has been vacant for
180 days or longer which has not been registered by the owner, the Program
Administrator shall notify the owner by first class United States mail of the
owner’s obligation to register the property within 15 days. If after 15 days,
the owner has failed to register the vacant property, the Program Administrator
is authorized to register the vacant property for the owner by completing the
registration form on behalf of the owner.
   (B)   A vacant property registration form shall be in either paper or
electronic form, and the following information shall be required:
      (1)   The name, street address, mailing address, telephone number, and,
if applicable, the facsimile number and email address of the property owner and
his or her agent;
      (2)   The street address and parcel identification number of the vacant
property;
      (3)   The transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to the
owner; and
      (4)   The date on which the property became vacant.
   (C)   The property owner, 180 days after initial registration of the vacant
property pursuant to division (A) above or 360 days after the property becomes
vacant, whichever is sooner, shall be required to pay an initial registration
fee. The property owner shall also be required to pay supplemental registration
fees at intervals every six months thereafter for as long as the property
remains on the vacant property registration data base.
      (1)   The initial registration fee for a residential property shall be
$250 and $1,000 for a commercial property.
      (2)   The supplemental registration fee shall be double the previous fee
amount, with a maximum supplemental registration fee of ten times the initial
registration fee amount.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 152.06 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS; PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR POWERS.
   (A)   A subsequent owner or owners of property subject to this chapter will
assume the obligations of the previous owner or owners.
   (B)   Property shall be removed from the vacant property registration
database when the property is no longer vacant.
   (C)   Owners of registered property shall submit a plan for occupancy of the
property.
   (D)   Owners have the right to prior notice and to appeal adverse decisions
of the Program Administrator. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail to
the registered owner at the address maintained in the County Assessor’s office
at least ten days prior to such adverse decision.
   (E)   The Program Administrator or his or her designee may inspect the
interior and exterior of the vacant property upon registration and at one-year
intervals thereafter for so long as the property remains on the vacant property
registration data base.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 152.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   Failure of a property owner to comply with the requirement of this chapter
may be enforced by municipal fines of up to $100 per day of violation. In
addition, the city may enforce the collection of vacant property registration
fees by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction. Unpaid vacant
property registration fees and unpaid fines for any violation of the vacant
property registration chapter shall become a lien on the applicable property
upon the recording of a notice of such lien in the office of the Register of
Deeds of the county.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 152.08 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be supplemental to and in addition to
the Vacant Property Registration Act (Neb. RS 19-5401 et seq.) and any other
laws of the State of Nebraska relating to vacant property.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-9-2020)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1997 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section                   Code Section
3-501 through 3-514               34.21
8-1720                            150.050
10-209 through 10-411             37.21
10-606 through 10-612             37.21
11-101                            30.02
11-103 through 11-118             30.01
12-401 through 12-403             34.19
13-403                            92.020
13-504                            37.02
13-505                            37.02
13-506                            37.03
13-507                            37.03
13-508                            37.04,
                                  37.25
13-509                            37.25
13-510                            37.14
13-511                            37.14
13-606                            37.11
13-1302                           98.03,
                                  98.04
                                  93.02,
13-2020                           93.03,
                                  93.05—
                                  93.07
13-2023                           93.05,
                                  93.06
13-2026                           93.05,
                                  93.06
13-2027                           93.04
17-102                            36.04
17-103                            32.31,
                                  36.03
                                  32.31,
17-104                            32.32,
                                  36.03
17-105                            31.13
17-106                            31.14
17-107                            32.16,
                                  33.01
17-108.02                         30.30,
                                  33.02
17-110 through 17-117             32.15
17-119                            33.09
                                  33.06.
17-121                            34.18,
                                  90.001,
                                  90.002
17-123                            150.085
17-129                            130.07
17-130 through 17-132             150.001
17-134                            111.01,
                                  111.02
17-147                            33.07,
                                  35.01
17-148                            32.30
17-149                            52.015
17-209.02                         30.30
17-405                            33.09
17-502                            30.15
17-503                            92.017
17-503.01                         92.017
                                  10.99,
17-505                            31.30,
                                  33.07
17-511                            92.063
17-522                            92.040
17-523                            92.040
17-524                            92.063
                                  111.01,
17-525                            113.02,
                                  113.03,
                                  113.04
                                  91.01—
                                  91.03,
17-526                            91.05,
                                  91.09,
                                  91.11
17-531                            51.01
17-534                            51.01
17-536                            51.14,
                                  51.36
17-536 et seq.                    51.36
                                  51.03,
                                  51.06,
                                  51.08,
17-537                            51.10,
                                  51.12,
                                  51.15,
                                  51.16
17-538                            50.03
17-540                            51.09
17-541                            33.01
                                  50.01,
17-542                            51.07,
                                  51.10
17-547                            91.56
17-548                            91.12
17-549                            97.50
                                  97.30,
17-550                            97.32,
                                  150.001
17-555                            90.075
17-556                            97.50,
                                  130.07
17-557                            92.036
                                  92.016,
17-557.01                         92.035,
                                  92.037
17-558                            92.057
17-559                            92.057
17-563                            90.030
17-567                            92.015,
                                  92.058
17-568                            33.09
17-568.01                         33.09,
                                  37.10
17-568.02                         37.10
17-602                            36.10
17-604                            30.01,
                                  33.12
17-605                            33.04
17-606                            33.26
17-606 through 17-609             33.25
17-607                            37.18
17-608                            37.19
17-609                            37.19
17-610                            33.05
17-611                            30.31
17-612                            30.30
                                  31.33,
                                  31.36,
17-613                            31.37,
                                  31.38,
                                  37.10
                                  10.15,
17-614                            31.34,
                                  31.35,
                                  31.39
17-615                            31.37
17-616                            31.07,
                                  31.35
17-701                            37.01
17-702                            37.08
17-706                            37.07
17-708                            37.09
17-710                            37.15
17-711                            37.13
17-714                            37.12
17-715                            37.12
17-718                            35.01
17-720                            37.19
17-901                            52.016,
                                  52.017
                                  52.016,
                                  52.017,
                                  53.03,
17-902                            53.04,
                                  53.07—
                                  53.09,
                                  53.13
17-902 through 17-904             53.01
17-906                            53.01
17-909                            53.01
17-919                            33.09
                                  50.01,
17-925.01                         50.03,
                                  52.015
17-925.02                         52.022
17-948                            95.01
17-948 through 17-952             94.01
17-949                            95.02,
                                  95.03
17-951                            95.01
17-952                            95.01
17-953                            35.01
                                  150.001,
17-1001                           150.070,
                                  150.085
                                  97.25,
18-132                            150.070,
                                  150.085
18-305 through 18-312             30.31
18-412.01                         37.10
                                  50.03,
18-503                            52.016,
                                  52.017
18-1001 to 18-1006                92.017
18-1214                           37.22
18-1216                           37.24
                                  10.99,
                                  90.030,
                                  90.060—
                                  90.062,
                                  90.999,
                                  91.99,
                                  93.08,
                                  93.99,
                                  110.99,
                                  111.99,
                                  112.05,
18-1720                           112.06,
                                  112.99,
                                  113.99,
                                  114.99,
                                  130.05,
                                  130.06,
                                  130.99,
                                  150.051—
                                  150.053,
                                  150.055,
                                  150.085,
                                  150.999
                                  10.99,
                                  90.999,
                                  91.99,
                                  93.99,
                                  110.99,
                                  111.99,
18-1722                           112.99,
                                  113.99,
                                  114.99,
                                  130.99,
                                  150.050—
                                  150.053,
                                  150.055,
                                  150.999
                                  150.050—
18-1722.01                        150.053,
                                  150.055
18-1736                           72.25
                                  72.25,
18-1737                           72.26,
                                  72.32
                                  72.27,
18-1738                           72.28,
                                  72.34
18-1738.01                        72.29,
                                  72.34
18-1738.02                        72.28,
                                  72.29
                                  72.25,
18-1739                           72.26,
                                  72.30
18-1740                           72.31
18-1741                           72.32
18-1741.01                        72.27,
                                  72.34
18-1741.04                        72.34
18-1741.06                        72.34
18-1743                           150.003
18-1755                           92.019
18-1756                           37.10
18-2438                           31.09
18-2801 to 18-2808                37.01
18-2803 to 18-2808                37.05
                                  97.25,
19-902                            150.070,
                                  150.085
19-907 through 19-910             34.17
19-908                            34.16
19-912.01                         34.17
19-915                            31.39
19-922                            97.25,
                                  150.070
19-924 through 19-929             34.16
19-1101                           33.27
19-1102                           33.04
19-1104                           33.04
19-1301 through 19-1304           37.16
19-1305                           51.01
19-1309 through 19-1312           37.27
                                  53.04,
19-1404                           53.06—
                                  53.11
19-2428 through 19-2431           92.063
19-2701                           51.04,
                                  53.03
19-2901 through 19-2909           37.11
19-3701                           31.38
19-5401 et seq.                   152.08
20-301 through 20-322             98.08 
20-344                            98.01
20-131.01 to 20-131.04            98.03
25-1801                           50.99
28-401                            98.02
Chapter 28, Article 3             110.06
Chapter 28, Article 4             110.06
28-512                            53.14
28-519                            97.03,
                                  130.01
28-520                            130.02
28-521                            130.02
28-523                            90.015
28-609                            97.07
Chapter 28, Article 8             110.06
28-907                            97.10,
                                  130.21
                                  97.02,
28-908                            97.04,
                                  97.11
28-1009.01                        130.20
Chapter 28, Article 10            110.06
Chapter 28, Article 11            110.06
Chapter 28, Article 12            110.06
28-1213                           97.50
28-1229                           97.50
28-1233                           97.50
28-1233(3)                        97.50
                                  90.075,
28-1321                           130.05,
                                  130.06
28-1322                           130.03
28-1422                           114.01
28-1423                           114.01
29-422                            71.02
29-424                            71.02
29-4003                           99.02,
                                  99.03
29-4013                           99.02,
                                  99.03
32-110                            36.10
32-115                            36.10
32-404(1)                         36.01
32-404(2)                         36.02
32-533                            32.31,
                                  36.03
32-554                            36.03
32-556                            36.01,
                                  36.02
32-557                            36.05
32-558                            36.12,
                                  36.13
32-559                            36.07
32-568                            32.01
32-569                            32.01
32-607                            36.09
32-608                            36.08
32-617                            36.09
32-618                            36.09
32-628                            36.09
32-628 to 32-631                  37.26
32-629                            36.09
32-630                            36.09
32-802                            36.06,
                                  37.26
32-811                            36.11
32-952 through 32-959             36.07
32-1033                           36.12,
                                  36.13
32-1301 to 32-1309                36.14
32-1301 through 32-1309           36.14
32-1304                           36.14
35-101 through 35-103             35.03
35-102                            33.07
35-108                            33.07
35-520                            97.10
45-104.01                         92.063
45-623                            37.23
45-601 to 45-622                  37.23
48-1503                           37.10
49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.03 30.31
49-801(16)                        10.05
                                  37.26,
51-201                            96.01,
                                  96.07
51-202                            34.15,
                                  96.01
51-205                            96.03
51-207                            96.02
51-209                            96.08
                                  96.01,
51-211                            96.04—
                                  96.06
51-212                            96.07
51-214                            96.03
51-501                            37.26
                                  110.01,
53-101 through 53-1,122           110.02,
                                  110.09,
                                  110.24
53-103                            110.01
53-116.01                         110.21
53-118                            110.17
53-124.12                         110.23
53-134.03                         110.16
53-125                            110.06
53-131                            110.07
53-132                            110.23
                                  110.07,
53-134                            110.09,
                                  110.23
53-135                            110.08
53-135.01                         110.08
53-148                            110.05
53-167.02                         110.25
53-167.03                         110.25
                                  110.02,
53-168.06                         110.18,
                                  110.24
53-175                            110.24
53-177                            110.03
53-178                            110.04
53-179(2)                         110.16
53-180                            110.12
53-183                            110.13
53-184                            110.14
53-186                            110.19
53-186.01                         110.19
53-194.03                         110.24
53-1,101                          110.10
53-1,102                          110.11
53-1,114                          110.22
53-1,121                          110.20
53-124, subdivision (5)           110.23
54-601                            91.10
54-602                            91.10
54-603                            91.01—
                                  91.03
54-605                            91.06,
                                  91.08
54-606                            91.04
54-617                            91.25
54-618                            91.26
54-619                            91.27
54-620                            91.28
60-136                            90.061
60-311.14                         72.26
60-329 to 60-339                  37.22
Chapter 60, Article 6             70.01
60-658.01                         70.20
60-606 through 60-676             70.01
                                  70.05—
                                  70.08,
                                  72.01—
60-680                            72.05,
                                  72.08—
                                  72.12,
                                  Ch. 74, Sch. I
60-681                            70.04
60-682.01                         70.20
60-683                            71.02
60-1901 through 60-1911           90.045
60-6,119 through 60-6,121         70.08
60-6,134.01                       70.20,
                                  70.21
60-6,165                          72.11
                                  72.06,
60-6,166                          72.07,
                                  97.05
60-6,167                          72.01,
                                  72.02
60-6,183                          97.08
60-6,184                          97.08
60-6,185                          71.01
60-6,186                          71.01,
                                  Ch. 73, Sch. I
60-6,190                          71.01,
                                  Ch. 73, Sch. I
60-6,250                          92.062
60-3113.01 through 60-3113.04     72.25
69-202                            112.02
69-204                            112.04
70-624.04                         30.31
70-1601 to 70-1615                50.03
70-1602 et seq.                   50.02
70-1605                           50.01
71-1576                           34.35
71-1637                           37.26
71-4401                           91.04
71-4406                           91.13
71-4408                           91.12
71-4412                           91.01
76-704 through 76-724             92.057
77-1601                           37.25
77-1601.02                        37.25
77-1606                           37.25,
                                  37.26
77-2304                           37.19
77-2337                           37.16
77-2339                           37.16
77-2341                           37.19
77-2362 through 77-2364           37.18
77-2366                           37.18,
                                  37.19
                                  37.08,
77-3442                           37.26,
                                  37.27
77-3442 through 77-3444           37.26
77-3443                           37.26
77-3444                           37.26
Chapter 81, Article 8             33.12
81-145 to 81-162                  37.10
81-502                            97.25
81-506                            33.07,
                                  35.19
81-512                            33.07,
                                  97.27
81-520.01                         97.35
81-1175 through 81-1177           34.36
81-1438                           33.01
84-712                            33.04,
                                  33.25
84-1201 through 84-1220           33.04
84-1408                           31.03
84-1408 to 84-1414                31.09
84-1409                           31.03,
                                  31.15
84-1409(1)                        31.02
84-1409(2)                        31.01
84-1410                           31.04
                                  31.03,
84-1411                           31.05,
                                  31.08,
                                  31.15
84-1412                           31.06,
                                  31.09
                                  31.03,
84-1413                           31.06,
                                  31.07
86-329 through 86-331             50.03
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO 1997 CODE
1997 Code Section 2014 Code Section
1997 Code Section 2014 Code Section
1-101             32.15
1-102             32.30
1-103             32.31
1-104             32.32
1-105             32.01
1-106             32.16
1-201             33.01
1-202             33.02
1-203             33.03
1-204             33.04
1-205             33.25
1-206             33.26
1-207             33.27
1-208             33.05
1-209             33.06
1-210             33.07
1-211             33.08
1-212             33.09
1-213             33.10
1-214             33.11
1-215             33.12
1-301             30.01
1-302             30.02
1-401             30.15
1-501             31.01
1-502             31.02
1-503             31.03
1-504             31.04
1-505             31.05
1-506             31.06
1-507             31.07
1-508             31.08
1-509             31.09
1-510             31.10
1-511             31.11
1-512             31.12
1-513             31.13
1-514             31.14
1-515             31.15
1-601             31.30
1-602             31.31
1-603             31.32
1-604             31.33
1-605             31.34
1-606             31.35
1-607             31.36
1-608             31.37
1-609             31.38
1-610             31.39
1-701             36.01
1-702             36.02
1-703             36.03
1-704             36.04
1-705             36.05
1-706             36.06
1-707             36.07
1-708             36.08
1-709             36.09
1-710             36.10
1-711             36.11
1-712             36.12
1-713             36.13
1-715             36.14
1-801             37.01
1-802             37.02
1-803             37.03
1-804             37.04
1-805             37.05
1-806             37.06
1-807             37.07
1-808             37.08
1-809             37.09
1-810             37.10
1-811             37.11
1-812             37.12
1-813             37.13
1-814             37.14
1-815             37.15
1-816             37.16
1-817             37.17
1-818             37.18
1-818.01          37.19
1-819             37.20
1-820             37.21
1-821             37.22
1-822             37.23
1-823             37.24
1-824             37.25
1-825             37.26
1-826             37.27
1-901             30.30
1-902             30.31
                  30.99,
                  31.99,
1-1001            32.99,
                  33.99,
                  36.99,
                  37.99
2-101             34.01
2-201             34.15
2-202             34.16
2-203             34.17
2-204             34.18
2-205             34.19
2-206             34.20
2-208             34.21
2-209             34.22
2-211             34.35
2-212             34.36
2-213             34.37
2-214             34.38
2-215             34.39
2-216             34.40
2-217             34.41
2-218             34.42
2-219             34.43
2-220             34.44
2-301             34.99
3-101             51.01
3-102             51.02
3-103             51.03
3-104             51.04
3-105             51.05
3-106             51.06
3-107             51.07
3-108             51.08
3-109             51.09
3-110             51.10
3-111             51.11
3-112             51.12
3-113             51.13
3-114             51.14
3-115             51.15
3-116             51.16
3-117             51.17
3-118             51.18
3-119             51.19
3-201             52.015
3-202             52.001
3-203             52.016
3-204             52.017
3-205             52.018
3-206             52.019
3-207             52.020
3-208             52.021
3-209             52.022
3-210             52.040
3-211             52.041
3-212             52.042
3-213             52.043
3-214             52.055
3-215             52.056
3-216             52.057
3-217             52.058
3-218             52.059
3-219             52.060
3-220             52.075
3-221             52.076
3-222             52.077
3-223             52.023
3-224             52.078
3-225             52.079
3-226             52.080
3-227             52.081
3-228             52.082
3-229             52.083
3-230             52.024
3-231             52.095
3-232             52.096
3-233             52.097
3-234             52.098
3-235             52.025
3-236             52.026
3-237             52.110
3-238             52.111
3-239             52.099
3-240             52.027
3-241             52.125
3-242             52.126
3-243             52.127
3-244             52.002
3-245             52.999
3-301             53.01
3-302             53.02
3-303             53.03
3-304             53.04
3-305             53.05
3-306             53.06
3-307             53.07
3-308             53.08
3-309             53.09
3-310             53.10
3-312             53.11
3-313             53.12
3-314             53.13
3-315             53.14
3-401             50.01
3-402             50.02
3-403             50.03
3-404             50.99
3-405             50.04
3-501             35.01
3-502             35.02
3-503             35.03
3-504             35.15
3-505             35.16
3-506             35.17
3-507             35.18
3-508             35.19
3-601             94.01
3-602             94.02
3-701             95.01
3-702             95.02
3-703             95.03
3-801             96.01
3-802             96.02
3-803             96.03
3-804             96.04
3-805             96.05
3-806             96.06
3-807             96.07
3-808             96.08
                  35.99,
                  50.99,
                  51.99,
3-901             53.99,
                  94.99,
                  96.99,
                  95.99
4-101             90.001
4-102             90.002
4-103             90.003
4-201             93.01
4-202             93.02
4-203             93.03
4-204             93.04
4-205             93.05
4-206             93.06
4-207             93.07
4-208             93.08
4-209             93.09
4-301             90.060
4-302             90.061
4-303             90.062,
                  90.999
4-305             90.075
4-401             90.999,
                  93.99
4-402             90.999,
                  93.99
5-101             70.01
5-102             70.02
5-103             70.03
5-104             70.04
5-105             70.05
5-106             70.06
5-107             70.07
5-108             70.08
5-109             70.20
5-110             70.21
5-201             71.01
5-202             Ch. 73, Sch. I
5-203             71.02
5-204             71.03
5-205             71.04,
                  71.99
5-301             72.01
5-302             72.02
5-303             72.03
5-304             Ch. 74, Sch. I
5-305             72.04
5-306             72.05
5-307             72.06
5-308             72.07
5-309             72.08
5-310             72.09
5-311             72.25
5-312             72.26
5-313             72.27
5-314             72.28
5-315             72.29
5-316             72.30
5-317             72.31
5-318             72.32
5-319             72.33
5-320             72.34
5-321             72.10
5-322             72.11
5-323             72.12
5-324             72.13
                  70.99,
5-401             71.99,
                  72.99
6-101             91.01
6-102             91.02
6-103             91.03
6-104             91.04
6-105             91.05
6-106             91.06
6-107             91.07
6-108             91.08
6-109             91.25
6-110             91.26
6-111             91.27
6-112             91.28
6-113             91.09
6-114             91.10
6-115             91.11
6-116             91.12,
                  91.99
6-117             91.13
6-118             91.40
6-119             91.41
6-120             91.42
6-201             91.55
6-202             91.56
6-203             91.57
6-204             91.58
6-301             130.01
6-302             130.02
6-303             130.03
6-304             130.04
6-305             130.05
6-306             130.06
6-307             90.030
6-308             90.015
6-309             130.07
6-310             90.045
6-311             130.08
6-312             130.20
6-313             130.21
6-401             91.99,
                  130.99
6-402             91.99,
                  130.99
7-101             97.01
7-102             97.02
7-103             97.03
7-104             97.04
7-105             97.05
7-106             97.06
7-107             97.07
7-108             97.08
7-109             97.09
7-110             97.10
7-111             97.11
7-201             97.25
7-202             97.26
7-203             97.27
7-204             97.28
7-205             97.29
7-206             97.30
7-207             97.31
7-208             97.32
7-209             97.33
7-210             97.34
7-211             97.35
7-301             97.50
7-302             97.51
7-401             97.99
8-101             92.001
8-102             92.015
8-103             92.016
8-104             92.017
8-105             92.018
8-106             92.019
8-107             92.020
8-201             92.035
8-202             92.036
8-203             92.037
8-204             92.038
8-205             92.039
8-206             92.040
8-301             92.055
8-302             92.056
8-303             92.057
8-304             92.058
8-305             92.059
8-306             92.060
8-307             92.061
8-308             92.062
8-309             92.063
8-401             92.075
8-501             92.999
9-101             150.001
9-102             150.002
9-103             150.035
9-104             150.003
9-105             150.004
9-201             150.015
9-202             150.016
9-203             150.017
9-204             150.018
9-205             150.019
9-206             150.020
9-301             150.050
9-302             150.051
9-303             150.052
9-304             150.053
9-305             150.054
9-306             150.055
9-401             150.070
9-501             150.999
9-502             150.999
10-101            110.01
10-102            110.02
10-103            110.03
10-104            110.04
10-105            110.05
10-106            110.06
10-107            110.07
10-108            110.08
10-109            110.09
10-110            110.10
10-111            110.11
10-112            110.12
10-113            110.13
10-115            110.14
10-116            110.15
10-118            110.17
10-119            110.18
10-120            110.19
10-121            110.20
10-122            110.21
10-123            110.22
10-124            110.23
10-125            110.24
10-126            110.25
10-201            111.01
10-202            111.02
10-301            112.01
10-302            112.02
10-303            112.03
10-304            112.04
10-305            112.05
10-306            112.06
10-501            113.01
10-502            113.02
10-503            113.03
10-504            113.04
10-601            114.01
                  110.99,
                  111.99,
10-701            112.99,
                  113.99,
                  114.99
                  110.99,
                  111.99,
10-702            112.99,
                  113.99,
                  114.99
11-101            151.01
11-102            151.02
11-103            151.03
11-104            151.04
11-105            151.06
11-201            151.99
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2006-04  3-21-2006   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2006-05  3-21-2006   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2006-06  3-21-2006   Ch. 73, Sch. II
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1986-2   5-20-1986   32.01
1998-08  11-3-1998   37.02
1998-09  11-3-1998   37.03
1998-10  11-3-1998   37.04
1998-11  11-3-1998   37.08
1998-12  11-3-1998   37.26
1998-13  11-3-1998   37.25
1998-14  11-3-1998   37.27
1998-15  11-3-1998   37.18
1998-16  11-3-1998   37.19
1998-17  11-3-1998   37.10
1998-18  11-3-1998   70.20
1998-19  11-3-1998   70.21
1998-20  11-3-1998   130.20
1998-21  11-3-1998   130.21
1998-22  11-3-1998   114.01
1999-06  11-2-1999   71.04,
                     71.99
2000-01  4-18-2000   34.35—
                     34.44
2000-04  10-17-2000  50.01
2001-01  5-8-2001    151.05
2002-01  1-8-2002    150.070
2002-02  3-5-2002    51.35,
                     51.99
2003-01  5-6-2003    52.140
2004-01  1-20-2004   51.35,
                     51.99
2004-05  11-16-2004  98.01—
                     98.08
2005-01  2-22-2005   150.070
2005-02  3-22-2005   51.36,
                     51.99
2005-05  5-3-2005    72.14
2006-02  2-21-2006   90.076
2006-05  6-6-2006    150.017
2007-01  3-6-2007    150.085
2007-03  4-17-2007   91.12,
                     91.99
2007-04  5-1-2007    91.01
2007-07  9-18-2007   51.35,
                     51.99
2007-09  11-6-2007   51.18
2008-03  5-20-2008   91.25—
                     91.28
2008-04  5-20-2008   150.071
2008-05  5-20-2008   150.071
2008-08  11-4-2008   91.25—
                     91.28
2008-09  11-4-2008   150.071
2009-1   1-20-2009   90.062,
                     90.999
2012-01  5-8-2012    51.20
2013-03  6-4-2013    30.30
2013-04  6-18-2013   70.01,
                     70.09
2013-06  9-3-2013    91.14,
                     91.99
2013-09  10-1-2013   52.018
                     90.060—
2014-03  3-24-2014   90.064,
                     90.999
                     150.001,
2014-06  7-1-2014    150.003,
                     150.035
2014-12  10-21-2014  110.16
2015-01  2-17-2015   36.04
2015-03  3-3-2015    110.16
2016-02  4-19-2016   50.01,
                     50.02
                     99.01—
2016-05  9-20-2016   99.03,
                     99.99
                     91.25,
2016-08  12-6-2016   91.27,
                     91.28,
                     91.99
2016-09  9-20-2016   90.061
2020-03  6-9-2020    152.01—
                     152.08
2021-03  12-21-2021  36.04
2022-03  6-21-2022   34.23
                    
 
